ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that the session is attended by 86 MPs and there are working conditions, but in order to determine the exact number, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this point in the hall, 113 MPs are present, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6787	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. My fellow Members, Serbian citizens, firstly, since I am a man who deals with agriculture and I represent the United Peasant Party here in the Serbian Parliament, I would like to congratulate all our beekeepers in Serbia on the World Beekeeper's Day, with the goal of being mediocre this year, that there are more honey, because previous years have been very bad for our beekeepers. I've been saying all this since 2016, and there's been a lot of bad years here, there's not enough honey, there's been a lot of work on beekeeping, and I think that all of us who are here in the Assembly, and I'm also president and representative of the Committee on Agriculture, and I think it would be good to get more subsidies for each hive, for young beekeepers, because now 800 dinars are being given for the hive, which is good, but it would be because of this bad situation, because of these bad years to ensure that this subsidy is bigger. My question to the Ministry of Agriculture – will they have the opportunity to provide greater subsidies for our beekeepers, with a special emphasis on those young beekeepers and beekeepers, or women who want to deal with beekeeping? We need to give more subsidies, greater assistance because a large number of beekeepers have the opportunity to develop it, to be better with the support of the Serbian state, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of local self-government and local self-government budgets. Otherwise, I think it's a really big thing that the Alliance of the Association of Beekeepers of Serbia, the man who runs this association, Rodoljub Zivadinovic, who, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, managed to build one place where all honey products will be produced and made. This factory, this production is located in Raca. It's a great success, how one association can secure a place where our product can be placed, in any part of the world. Once again, I congratulate Mr. Rodoljub Zivadinović the World Bee Day and all beekeepers. Otherwise, I can say here in the Assembly with pride that in the municipality from which I come, it is Svrlig, that there are the largest number of hives per capita, which means that a large number of beekeepers in Svrlig are involved in this production and it's a big deal. I think that a large number of beekeepers in the territory of southeastern Serbia are doing so, and people can live quite well out of it. One of the big problems about beekeeping is honey that's a fake. Honey counterfeit exists here and I'm interested -- how can we, I can ask the inspection services, how is it controlled by this counterfeit honey that causes great damage to our beekeepers because it's something that's not good, which brings bad and it's not, normally, healthy? My question - how does the inspection work on the ground, how do these people who deal with the sale of counterfeit honey? One more question. Are we going to have a chance, it's a question for the ministry, are we going to have the opportunity to provide more resources under the budget for women who are going to deal with and who are dealing with beekeeping, for young farmers who deal with beekeeping because it's a chance for people from their work to live? I've got beekeepers in Srlig who have over a thousand 600 hives, of which nearly 400 hives have organic healthy honey, protected, and that's what we have to work on. Nature gave us everything. We have to protect that nature. Bees and bees are something without which we certainly wouldn't have food, because close to three-quarters of the plants that question bees use people for food. Therefore, great support to our beekeepers and the need to give them greater attention through financial support and through any other support, and I demand that honey counterfeits be contained. All those who sell that honey, get in their way and get sanctioned. Once again, thank you very much, dear President of the Assembly, for we are here a little hive that works in the interest of our citizens and all those drones we must cast. Now they are not here, probably, in the Assembly, but that is why we must be working and valuable and the result must be a better life for all of our people living in Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6788	Thank you, Milia. I've given you one minute longer, but all the MPs to bring for a jar of honey. Is it a deal? Let's move on, Shaip Cambery.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6789	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is for the Minister of Health, and it concerns the shift of the Director of the House of Health in Presevo and the appointment of a new V.D. Director. With his resolution of 9 March this year, he relieved the director of the House of Health in Presevo before the term of office, because the solution said that the Republic of Serbia had taken over over the homes of health and founding rights. No sentence indicates whether the previous director was misruled or failed to manage the home of health. The impression that the solution to the solution is that the director is unjustly resolved because of ethnic or political belongings. However, this is not the only failure in the process led by the minister. A special solution since 9 March, and the solutions were realised in late April, is the minister for a new V.D. Director appointed Dr Boban Spasic. Without doubting the expertise of Dr. Spasic, the issue being raised is on the basis of which parameters in the Presevo Health House, in the municipality of more than 90% of Albanians, in medical institutions with 55 doctors of whom 50 Albanians and five Serbs were elected to the very face of Serbian nationality to lead it? Whether the national or party similarities of the selected v.d. affected it. Director? In addition to my finding that the minister has injured Article 77(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, my question – is this message sent by the state that Albanians are unfit to perform state functions in institutions and are considered undesirable? My second question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the character of the May 9th victory ceremony of the Second World War, which demeans the victims of fascism and partisans. The Belgrade Academy of the World War II attended by Serbian President and ministers, a step taken by the Serbian fascist organisation Zbor, led by Dimitri Ljotic, and is being conducted today in the process of ultra-rightist groups. Here, for two years now, the day of victory over fascism and Nazism has been celebrated with the walk of immortal regiments in various cities. In Nis, for example, General Vladimir Lazarevic, a war criminal sentenced to 14 years in prison for crimes committed in Kosovo, was found at the head of the immortal regiment. The singing of Ljotic's steps on Victory Day over Fascism is a scandalous and cynical act of disrespect over millions of Nazi victims, but also an act of shooting students and civilians in Kragujevac in 1941, where they were at a loss, as history has taught us at least so far, that soldiers Marisav Petrovic, commander of the second Ljotic Serb Voluntary Corps. As noted in the anti-fascist organisation's reactions in Serbia, removing strofs from songs that clearly mention Ljotic and "The Assembly", it shows that it is not an accidental mistake, but is intended to systematically review the anti-fascist struggle in Serbia during World War II. Serbia is in power, which formally, which is informally, for years, rehabilitating and glorifying convicted war crimes deny war crimes on other nations, including genocide in Srebrenica, but this act of marking the Day of Victory over Fascism against Ljotic's steps is the idea of rehabilitating Nazi associates and trying to revise history. This act represents a kind of scandal and crime over its own people. What someone said -- Serbia is no longer able to even mask itself with antifascism without looking like a cartoon. This occasion may be worth quoting the current president of the National Assembly, who allegedly said Hitler was a Serb and would rehabilitate him. I don't know if Mr. Dacic said that, but it probably sounds like Hitler was a Serb. The question is, who's doing this? So my Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is it because of the scandal at the celebration of the Day of Victory over the Phaseism that he will seek the responsibility of those who were engaged in the organization of the ceremony? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6790	I didn't hear you. What did I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6791	I was quoting that you allegedly said somewhere that Hitler was a Serb and would rehabilitate him. I took that from the Serbian press, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6792	I don't know, I don't know. Thank you. Let's move on. The word has the life of Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6793	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, I would like to request the following information. In fact, Dragan Markovic Palma made the following brief statement today. "You, Dragan Gilas, and your performers of the dirtiest and most insidious works, which they falsely attacked me, I call for a polygraph. A polygraph is not material evidence for a court, but a polygraph is a lie detector. Gilas, I sued you and your dirty contractors, criminals, liars and cheaters, not me. So I'm waiting for the trial to begin, and you've been lying in the media all along about how I did something I didn't do. That's why I'm calling you bully Gilas to go to the polygraph next week, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia to find out if what you've been lying about me all along is true. You made Gilas a scheme to make political profit in the most ground-hand way, so you set off your criminals, liars and frauds. Be safe, bully Gilas, that there's something political to profit from, because you belong in prison, not me. You beat your wife and father-in-law with severe bodily injuries in front of your children and said you'd cut your head off. The prosecution and the judiciary need to deal with how you earned that kind of money and to get Serbian citizens to know. You bully, since you don't want you and your dirty contractors on TV, so you refused to have a duel on your television, here, Gilasa, I invite you to go to the polygraph tomorrow. “ The information I ask for is whether and as far as the authorities have arrived in the survey of the allegations that all of us here have been MPs for months, but not just the MPs, but the public and citizens of Serbia, did the competent authorities investigate information about the enormously acquired wealth of Dragan Gilas and the money that was taken to the accounts of various exotic destinations? The second question is whether an investigation was launched in the December 2014 official note in which Eva Gilas, former wife of Dragan Gilas, blamed Dragan Gilas for beating her and her father, inflicted serious physical injuries on them, and threatened her ex-wife to decapitate her head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6794	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6795	Thank you. Mr. Tomislav Momirovic, I would like to ask a question on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group of Ministers of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Tomislav Momirović. A new border crossing of Rabe-Kibekhaz opened within the framework of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary's programme to develop border crossings and provide easier communication between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary in 2019. The programme aims to ensure a smooth transition between the citizens of the two countries from one country to another, to achieve the shortest road connection between the major urban areas of Hungary and the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the shortest road connections between the major cities, such as Kikinda, Segedin and travel links between Hungarian regions such as Chongrad, Bekesh, with our Northern Banat district. By opening this border crossing at Rabe, it is secure, as I said, the shortest road from Kikinda to Segedin, or a link between our citizens and the highways of Hungary and indirectly with the EU highways is being made. I should point out that we have another small border crossing up in the North of Banat, which is through the New Prince of Djala, Djale-Tisasigget, but this new border crossing opened at Rabe has given our citizens a chance to travel 30km less to Hungary. So, this time it's shorter than the Prince's, because they have to go to Chok and the Prince's and the Devil's, and this time it leads directly to Rabe. The only problem right now is that at this point, the inadequate state of one road infrastructure is between the settlements of the Black Bar and Banatski Arangelovo. This inadequate condition, and it's mildly said, because this time it looks like a Polish road. It's a road that's 17 kilometers long that directly connects Kickinda through a settlement like I said to Black Bar, Banatski Arangelovo with Rabe. As we know in the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year, there is a lot of money planned to build large road infrastructures, such as highways, bypasses, but there are also planned money for reconstruction and reconstruction of local roads. My question – did the Ministry predict a reconstruction in this plan this time? So, the path between Banatian Arandelov and Black Bar. As we know, by May 5th there was a public debate on the topic of "The draft spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia" for the period from 2021 to 2035. The SVM parliamentary group has made more suggestions and remarks on the draft of this spatial plan that was in the public debate. Given the fact that this time, called 104/2a, is what I said on the route of the Black Bara-Banat Arangelovo, one of our suggestions and remarks refers to this particular road infrastructure. We've also asked that activities be included on the route to Raba, Banatski Arangelovo, Black Bar, Kikinda, as one of the connections to Hungary. As I said, the length of this trip is approximately 17 kilometers, the investment would be sevenm euros and the technical documentation of making this travel infrastructure is already in the final phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6796	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6797	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am not going to quote the Serbian press, do you know what our people say, but I will say what the people say, that's just stupidity is infinite, and that the kind of finding we just heard, how you interpreted it, you who lead a party that's 31 years old on the political scene of Serbia and who is heir to the idea of fighting fascism, can express such a finding, so only stupidity can be infinite. On the other hand, I don't know if you've noticed, but it's just been dragged back through a certain finding that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. Mr. Dacic, I ask you not to allow it, because we are very often honored that we are putting pressure on the MPs of a part of the opposition, that we do not allow them to speak. No, we respect their identity, but we very much follow what they say and it must be in accordance with the Constitution and it must be in accordance with the laws. Please, the 1946 Convention, let's finally separate, let them learn to separate that political part from the legal part. The crime existed, but the elements of the genocide are gone. The Republika Srpska parliament is the only parliament that adopted the Srebrenica Resolution, fulfilled its international and moral commitment, expressed condolences to the victims' families, voiced confidence that such situations would no longer occur on either side. I ask the question, did any other parliaments in the region do this besides this new initiative in Montenegro, and it would be very interesting to see what this resolution was set up by the Bosniaks in Montenegro? It's not my theme today. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Milos Zeman, who, on behalf of his people and his country, apologized to the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people for being forced to participate in NATO aggression against Serbia and Yugoslavia after only a few weeks of NATO accession in 1999. President Zeman apologized to President Vukic for admitting that Serbia's bombing was more than a crime, which was a huge satisfaction for our country, which was the victim of the most severe violation of international law on the 21st century, and suffered irreparable human losses and material damage measured by hundreds of billions of dollars, and until today these consequences have not been resolved. The Czech Republic is the first NATO member to officially apologize to Serbia, and for this we are very grateful to this friendly state and its president, who, above all human, but above all to the historic gesture, has sided with the truth, justice and has sided with international law. On the other hand, the same day, Aljbin Kurti, after a dinner of EU foreign policy chief Joseph Borelj, held for the leaders of the Western Balkans, asked five EU states that did not recognise the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo to change their stance and recognise the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. So, Albin Kurti's request directly violates the Washington Agreement, while the Republic of Serbia adheres to the letters of this agreement and has stopped its diplomatic activities that have achieved exceptional success in the previous period, because as many as 18 states have withdrawn the recognition of this self-proclaimed state, and there are many more who are willing to do so. You and President Vukic, who have synchronised and coordinated this extremely important diplomatic activity, know this best. The Pristina side obviously does not give up on its aggressive policy by not loathing even the very bold attitudes and demands towards countries that have not recognised. So Pristina continues with various pressures and threats to Serbia so as not to draw attention to everything that has been done in Kosovo and Metohija towards Serbia and that seems to continue on and on. They repeat their bold model of behavior, which is that the attack, first of all, is the best defense, driving a steam – we don't have our own, we want someone else's. That is why they continue to campaign for the acquisition of Serbian history, the acquisition of Serbian culture. In its policy of pressure on Europe and the world, Pristina obviously does not choose funds and thus affects the destabilisation of the region. Unlike them, who have acknowledged, or called on NATO bombs to help them take away part of the territory of a sovereign state, Serbia wants to be a factor in stabilising opportunities in the region and to reach the best solution. Although I asked similar questions a few days ago, because of the complexity of the situation, because of the complexity of the situation, concerns about the further course of events in our southern province, and today I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia – does the government plan to take certain activities that would protect Serbia's rights against European and other international institutions when it comes to KIM, in view of the fact that the international agenda also raises awareness that Serbia is unfairly accused and that the relationship to Serbia's internal affairs is a violation of international law, but that pressures continue on Serbia, which endangers our territorial integrity, and thus the survival of the Serbian people in the work of its own territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6798	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6799	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, Serbia is a military neutral country by decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we have made it clear to everyone that we want to be free and that, in accordance with the six priorities of the state policy defined by President Aleksandar Vukic, we will continue to lead an independent, sovereign and free policy and we will continue to strengthen our economic, health and military power, because I think these three things are the most important for the future of our country. I believe economic security is a prerequisite for national security and a strong Serbia that can always protect its people. Only after coming to power of President Aleksandar Vukic, does Serbia clearly define in strategic documents that it will protect the Serbian people wherever they live. That is why it is really important to strengthen our army as a deterrent factor for anyone who ever thinks that it can in any way endanger Serbian state and national interests. With this in mind, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, which is whether the return to compulsory military service is considered and in what form? I asked this question because I believe that Serbia's policy is a policy of peace and that it is important to make it clear to everyone that we will never again allow anyone to trample and humiliate Serbia as in some previous times and that it is important that we strengthen our army, because today we have economic conditions to do so. By 2012, Serbia had not had one plane that could have taken off. Today our army is reinforced by new planes, new helicopters, new tanks, armored vehicles, drones, laser-led aircraft bombs, and today we are sovereignly and freely protecting and guarding our skies. The acquisition of the Pancir missile defence system is a great thing for our armed forces and I don't think there is a man in Serbia who is not happy when he sees a strong and well-equipped Serbian army that the citizens of Serbia have had the opportunity to see on the military exercise "Responsibility 21". Strong, armed, equipped, trained, well-instructed Serbia is the most distant from any potential conflict. All of this is contrary to what previous authorities have done leading the policy of NATO's crawling accession to the pact, avoiding Serbia from establishing a strong army, a policy of co-operation with all military alliances, but without joining in some of them, for reasons, because it is the only way we can preserve our political military independence and independence. Tadic, Sutanovac and Ponos have in every way prevented military neutrality from being found in a strategic document, although they were bound by the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Boris Tadic, as defence minister and commander-in-chief, is most responsible for the fall of the standards of members of the Serb army, for destroying the technique and abolishing the military deadline. They have disbanded the entire Corps, including the legendary Pristina Corps they are proud of. The glory of our fighters in Kosaram would have been completely darkened if there had been no political change in Serbia in 2012 and only since then are we starting to mark important events. Never heard of Koshare in the time of the rule of the yellow tycoon regime. Never, if they had stayed in power, would we have come to a situation to correct our soldiers, our fighters, our wartime disabled and honor our heroes from Koshar. Our army heroically endured NATO attacks, but nearly survived the attacks by Tadic, Sutanovac and Ponos, as military warehouses flew into the air in their time, while today over Serbia the MiGs are flying 29, and members of the Army have the most modern equipment and weapons. I know that Tadic, Ponosa and Sutanovac, as ideologists of disarmament of Serbia, is harassing the forces of the Serb army, and that is why the citizens of Serbia have forever denied their trust because of such a relationship with the state. At the time of the former regime, even thinking that there would be no security threats and challenges in the future, so they abolished foreign diplomatic intelligence, encryption, telegrams, abolished secondary military school in 2005, etc. It is fortunate that in 2012, we managed to win the elections and finally put the Serbian state, and the Serb army on our feet and, as I said at the beginning, we will continue to strengthen our economic, health and military power, because that way we will succeed in enabling Serbian citizens what they really deserve, which is – a better standard of living and even more security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6800	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Dunji Simonović Bratic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic, especially Dunji and Dejan, if you will, selected from the Election List "IVICA DAČIĆ - The Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), Unique Serbia (JS) – Dragan Marković Palma". I'm a little bit of a joke because these are my MPs. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Dunji Simonović Bratic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to prepare to take the oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf on the election for MPs and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelisaveta Veljkovic and Đuro Peric. We continue a unique search on the 11th item of the agenda – List of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, according to the order of application for word. I'd just like to inform you about the orientation plan for today. Given that we also have a debate on details, since there are a lot of amendments to these laws, we'll be working up to 12.30 hours on this agenda point, and then we'll move to a discussion in particular, and about 18.00 hours or something after 18.00 hours is scheduled to be a vote. So you have that in mind. Since we've already done part of the search, we are now going to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. The first reported is Milija Miletic, always the first, what to do, it comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, near the most beautiful city in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6801	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, I, as my fellow MP and as president of the United Peasant Party, would congratulate on the election of new MPs, especially Dunji, as you said, normally and Dejan, with the desire to work here in the contribution of all peoples in Serbia, all nationalities in Serbia. Normally, to work for every man anywhere he is, whether in Srlig, the White Palanca, whether in Raska, whether in Novi Pazar, whether in Subotica. We have to work for every man, because we're here for people to make them better. I congratulate you once again and wish you successful work. What else? We must honor our colleagues, normal and colleagues, but colleagues in the first place. I'd like to say a few things about REM. We specifically have a proposal to elect a candidate. Otherwise, it takes two candidates, two REM members to be elected. I think it is necessary because REM is very important to us here in Serbia. Especially for everything that's done, what's visible, what a lot of people need to see, to appreciate, on the basis of having certain opinions. I think it is necessary for REM to be more active, within its jurisdiction to do its job for the benefit of every citizen, every nation here in our Serbia, every nationality. I think it would be good if every man, wherever he lives, whether he lives in some village in the territory of the municipality of Svrljig, Sokobanja, Medvedje, Kursumli, White Palanka, Prepolje, anywhere, that he can see all those interesting topics concerning events happening here in Serbia, because we are witnessing that in a large number of territories of these environments there is no coverage for the media, that a large number of people can only hear from someone on the side that there was something. We are particularly witnessing that our Serbian team headed by our Dragan Stojkovic Pixie is very successful. By the way, Dragan Stojković Pixi comes from Nis, from the Palilula municipality, from the Pasi field, where the president of the Ivica Dacic Apartments Assembly was when he was a student or a high school student. I think that's what happened. Dragan Stojkovic Pixie as a team selector is a man with great knowledge and experience, where our team of Serbia is very active and wins, but most of all our Serbian citizens cannot watch when Serbia's team plays with another team. For what? Or our tennis champion, Novak Djokovic. A large number of our Serbian citizens can't watch that. For what? That's where I have to ask REM. Which is why my men from the Srlig area of Nis, from any part where there's no sports channel, or as the Sports Club says, are renting and controlling who can watch and when they can watch, because the largest number of us don't have that channel. I'm asking REM why this is happening. Can only the privileged watch the Sports Club? Can only the privileged watch Serbia's lead team with selector Dragan Stojkovic Pixie when he wins? Can only the privileged watch Novak Djokovic win or any of our other representatives, a man who is recognizable in any part of the sport in the world? I don't think that's right. I don't think that's normal. It is necessary that some national channel, a national frequency channel, has the possibility that every man can see in any part of our territory of Serbia, so that he can watch our team, Novak Djokovic and everyone else. It is not right for one channel to take all of this, and it does not exist in the most part in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's necessary to resolve it for the benefit of every man. It doesn't matter if he owns that channel, Dragan Gilas or someone else. The important thing is that the channel is visible throughout Serbia's territory. That's why I'm asking REM, I'm asking REM members if that can change, can everyone be equal and be able to watch all those important things, as far as finding Serbia's country is concerned? I don't think that's right. I'm appealing again. I call upon everyone in charge to solve this problem, that tomorrow one man can control everything, and here it turns out that he has problems with all of us, that we do bad to him, and the bottom line is that we just want to be all equal, all of us can watch certain things, that we can all follow certain things and be visible to everyone. Normally, for me as a man who comes from southeastern Serbia, comes from Svrlig, as I said, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected to the Assembly from the list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. It is very important that each of our agricultural producers has the opportunity to see products from their neighborhood on national television, that some of their activities can be seen on national television, that one of their representatives in the Assembly can see on national television, talk about problems, talk about problems, how to solve problems, about agriculture and about villages and about life in southeastern Serbia, in mountainous and mountainous areas. It would also be good if it were for anyone who had something to say, and it's good for a certain number of citizens, a certain category of people, to specifically think about people living in the country and from the village, it's good to be on national television, to be on public service and to talk about these problems. As a person, as a man and as a political person, believe me, I have a lot of information, I'm moving a lot and there's a lot of knowledge I'd like to share with all the citizens. Once again, I will vote for the REM proposal, normally in agreement with all of us. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6802	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. You are aware that your parliamentary group has six minutes. I've released almost eight of you. You must be collegiate with your other colleagues. You know it's limited time for a debate. By half one should get as many speakers as possible on this list. Therefore, I ask all Members of the Parliament to observe the time foreseen for their parliamentary group. Certainly, the largest parliamentary group has often given up much of the debate. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6803	The esteemed, electronic media regulatory body has certainly a central place in editing the media space, in our system, and certainly needs to be filled with quality personnel and certainly dignity and professionalism, are the criteria by which we will decide and by which we will give support to the candidate. I will also refer to the strategy for the development of the public information system brought by our Government by 2025, which particularly underlines and underlines the need to cultivate the diversity of media public content, and improve media pluralism. Serbia's media public service must certainly set up editorials in the languages of national minorities, and this is partly well done, above all in Vojvodina, where they are represented by the editorials of almost all national minorities, while in other parts of our country the situation is different, there is no order for the Bosnian language and I think that what needs to be changed as soon as possible. Not only that, there is only one show on RTS today that deals with the topics of national minorities, and it's called "Citizen", it's a very good show, but I think it's a little space for all national minorities, especially for those living outside Vojvodina, to show their cultural positives and specificities, which the rest of our citizens should certainly see. Certainly, media public service should provide more and more emissions and other content to present our minority peoples, but we must represent more representatives of national minorities in the context of existing emissions and choose the right topics. Because it seems to me that quality content can replace the shortcomings that exist today. So, raising the quality of the program, i.e. by selecting the right information, we can present a variety in minority nations living on the premises of our country. More positive stories about the contributions of minority peoples to our society in all fields of culture, tradition, so to sport is really necessary. When I mention sports, I advocate that the most popular competitions of all our sports are absolutely transferred to public service. This visibility itself will reduce the irregularities that are certainly present and which topic is back to one significant time. You know that despite the great irregularities, the football club "New Market" on mine and the joy of all my citizens managed to win survival among the best football clubs of our country and I personally think that this year was the hardest, although it seemed to me that Novi Pazar had a team and players who were well above the many teams at the top of the table. If the football games of the New Market football club were passed on, what I'm all about and what I'm calling on the citizens of this country now would clearly see with how irregularity, the injustices my club's representatives had to fight and suffer, they'd see how knightly and honorable with a huge sport stake every victory, the Markets must double deserve. This is the victory of all of us who are trying to make the New Market football club and other collectives of our city not only oasis local patriotism and multiethnicism but, above all, fair play and healthy sports spirit. With that, I also want to tell the haters of the New Market football club in general the New Pazar, first of all those who come from that space that we will persist on these principles and will long, long, long watch the New Pazar football club and other league teams in the first league in the best competitions of this country, and hopefully in international competitions. Of course Novi Pazar and Sandzak managed to plate themselves as a nursery of young athletes, successful athletes from Adem Ljajic via Armin Sinančević, Asmir Kolasinac, Hamad Međedovic, etc. And I think, and I believe that it is my opinion that such people must have more room at the Public Service because they have their own life struggle, their representation of this country in the best possible way in the world of sports and here and beyond are the best examples of how our children and all of us should behave in relation to sports and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6804	I thank the People's MP, Muamer Bacec. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6805	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very beginning of my presentation today, I would like to congratulate the proposed candidates of whom one will be elected member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and to wish the candidate chosen a lot of success in the work. This body is extremely important for the media sky in the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the overall social atmosphere which, apart from all other factors, media content has an extremely large impact, and where REM as one of the institutions responsible for implementing public information law should play an indescribably important role. It is precisely for the reason for which we are surely all in agreement, which is that all media especially media providers who function as media and who have been assigned national frequencies are the very powerful institutions of culture with a great influence of public opinion and atmosphere in society, that I want to apostrophy the powers of REM under the applicable laws on electronic media, as an independent independent regulatory organisation with the property of legal persons, to perform in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to contribute to safeguarding the protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression, to protect public interests in the field of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services in accordance with the law in a manner appropriate democratic society. According to its work cycle, as stated in Article 22 of the current Law on Electronic Media, the Regulator, among other competences in the obligation to control the work of media service providers and to take care of the literal application of the provisions of the law, imposes measures on media service providers and gives an initiative to amend laws and other regulations, determines closer rules relating to software content, and in relation to the protection of the dignity of persons and other personal rights, the protection of the rights of minors, the prohibition of hate speech, investigates the needs of media service users and protects their interests, promotes the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as well as the culture of the language of national minorities, encourages the development of creation in the field of media services. A strategy for the development of a public information system adopted by the government in January 2020, whose vision is to provide a favourable environment for freedom of information, flow of ideas and opinions and the achievement of public interest that will lead to a well-established and rich media market. It covers a large number of objectives, which are listed in the Strategy itself, which are not fully met, particularly with regard to the creation of a suitable environment for the development of freedom of expression and the promotion of the development of the media market, which involves providing an adequate financial framework for the functioning of public media services, but also ensuring the independence of the Regulatory Body in the field of electronic media. The strategy also makes it clear that the independence of the Regulators we speak is formally declared, but that in practice it is not fully secure and partly due to the lack of regulation, and partly due to the inadequate application or absence of the application of the existing Regulatory Framework, which is evident in the different processes concerning the functioning of REM, and possibly the most labour control of media service providers by REM. Article 47 of the applicable law, paragraphs 3 and 4 foresee the obligations of media service providers in relation to software content which implies that the media service provider is obliged to contribute to raising the general cultural and educational level of citizens, as well as not to speak of software content that points out and supports narcotics, violence, criminal or other illicit behaviour, as well as content that abuses the gullibility of viewers. Furthermore, Article 50 requires the obligation to respect the dignity of persons and human rights in all software content, and the Regulator is particularly old to show no demeaning treatment and scenes of violence unless there is a programme and artistic justification. The law also provides for a ban on hate speech, i.e. Member of the 51st Ageing Regulator that the content of media service providers does not contain information that encourages discrimination, hatred or any kind of violence for any reason. What is also important is that the Law is explicit when it comes to protecting minors, especially when it comes to software content that can harm the physical, mental or moral development of minors and that these contents must be clearly marked and not published at a time when they can be expected to be followed by minors. What the Law on Electronic Media and the Strategy for the Development of Information Funds see clearly is the need to support the development of media pluralism, which includes, among other things, the diversity of media content. Most media service providers are dominated exclusively by entertainment content, including reality programs, except for a somewhat informative programme that has a relatively fixed location and established volume while children's scientific and cultural arts programmes are represented in negligible percentages or are not shown at all on commercial televisions. The general conclusion is that commercial television remains within the framework of very uniform software content, based mainly on formats of informative and fun character, and the goal of achieving media pluralism is seen as one of the necessary achievements. I intend to use my presentation in such a way that every member of the council chosen in this House gets, but above all, to highlight the social and cultural roles of the Regulators, given how and how much the media influences children and young people, the amount of free time that young people spend following media content, and in particular, I will look at the data that depicts very precisely how generations who are just getting to see society, themselves in society, how they see the media, and how they think the media see them or don't see them, whether or not they are satisfied with the media content that they broadcast how they see cultural life around them and how much they participate in it. For this very reason, I will only list a part of the statistics that I have taken from several studies, which have been studied by young people aged 15 to 30. When asked if youth and youth problems were represented in the media, 88% said they were not, i.e. that young people in the media are invisible. Other answers were to be transmitted by the media as a person without attitudes, that they were either excluded from the media or presented very badly, that they were not represented at all, that among the positive examples we had athletes and good students, and that they were largely presented as hooligans, problematic, passive, promiscuity, drug addicts, alcoholics, that they were presented through violence or through starlets. What is particularly important, young people may not view traditional media programs through themselves, but they are present on portals and networks where the media almost everything they produce is transmitted and spilled and the content comes to young people. Television as a television is not the only way TV stations address young people, although 35% have responded to information via television. In the context of the survey, respondents discussed different approaches and felt that they were always paying attention to problems, not to the affirmation of young people, so they stated that successes only get a few minutes or a paragraph, while certain sensations and sensational problems are being given headlines and major contributions. As still a young artist, I can identify myself with the statements of young people who, when they want to present their success, talent or story for example, encounter difficulties in obtaining media space or incomprehension when it comes to the activity they are dealing with, given that I did not always have the support and understanding of all the media for my expression, but only by individuals whom I will truly be eternally grateful. As far as talent is concerned, research conducted by the Ministry of Youth and Sports shows that there is unity in the ability to develop talent and creativity in different regions of the country, and 41% of the eastern and southern Serbian youth think there are insufficient opportunities. When asked whether young subjects were engaged, engaged or planning to deal with any of the cultural and artistic activities, 80% pointed out that they were never, nor planned, and some of the activities such as acting or painting even 90% replied that they were never interested or tried. The free time of about 50% of respondents regularly spends on social applications, 90% regularly surfing the internet. I've already mentioned, young people have absolute access to all other media content that they don't have to look directly, i.e. All the TV content is spilling over there. What can be particularly concerned is that about 90% of young people have never been a member of any sports or cultural and artistic society. Perhaps these data are not the key to discussing REM council members, but they tell us that youth non-engagement within some form of sports or creative activity leaves the same young man with a lot of free time in which he is constantly turning to the contents that are easily available. As such a form of content, these are certainly social networks, the Internet as the necessity of today's world order, but also the television forms that we have already mentioned through the mandatory provision of media pluralism that we must provide as a society. We should never fall into the trap of the format and let the format wear us as such, but react at the same time as we estimate that content can negatively or already negatively affect children and young people. First of all, I think of bad behavior models that are often broadcast on television in times that are available to everyone, the most dangerous minors, where the highest concentration of such behaviour can be found in participants to reality programs. The reality program as a format is a programme of modern times and modern television and there is nothing controversial about it, since there are many good examples of reality programs that promote talent for sport, art, creativity, different skills and knowledge. As some of these examples are, say, "Pink Stars", "I have talent", "It's never too late", "With Tamara in Action", "Studio of Knowledge". These are shows that represent the more beautiful side of reality, or words of reality. What is controversial are negative behavioral models like violence of every kind, whether verbal or physical, as well as criminal activities promote as all present and in some way normal, and which should not be. As REM, as well as the most legislative body, as well as society in general, we must remind young people of the fact that unemployment and profit of fast money are not a realistic approach to life, that reaching success is not easy, and no one has even said it will be. When we think about success, we can also think about Novak Djokovic and all his struggles, pains and cracked blisters or someone on the stage a gentle ballerina whose ballet hides swollen joints and fingers in bandages. We can't knowingly go deaf about a scandal that happens every day in reality programs and we need to make it adequate, i.e. Rigorous sanctioning of such behaviours as the actors themselves, as well as media service providers, which will not exclude promotion of unemployment, but will at least eliminate an ugly dictionary, almost explicit promiscuity and promotion of violence. In research that I have mentioned young people or avoid such types of programs, or the taste of media users is so gross that the only decision of the broadcasters themselves would be to eliminate such a kind of content at the cost that the state helps and covers the profits that the broadcasters of such content have become accustomed to are measures that will save generations of children and young people from growing under the watchful eye of tough guys and starlets. Personally, I feel that no price is expensive when it comes to raising and educating young people. We need to look around and all of us together, headed by REM, when it comes to controlling the work of media service providers, we need to be responsible and help parents, but also enlightening children to raise and educate them. This week we also discussed the Law on Middle Education and Education, because education has this very twofold role to play, to educate, but also to educate, and here we all need to be complex and helpful in order for generations that come to fit into thinking and inspired beings and to increase the percentage of those whose role models are scientists or artists from 4% to 6%. We must not allow children and young people to become and remain hostages of negative behavioural models for a free competition that is exposed to all the media and for the sake of our often daily political aspirations. We must all contribute to the development of critical thought and media literacy, because all the participants of this process and equally responsible for the consequences were those of good or bad. Therefore, we must all be more proactive and use the tools that are already at our disposal and that the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media or a brand new law, which was announced for the second quarter of 2022, make it clearer to support the independence of REM, especially in the areas of the internal organisation, the salaries of REM Council members and employees and, above all, the powers to adopt sublegal acts, implement decisions, as well as mechanisms such as monetary sanctions that would finally be established by the authority of the regulator. The independence of the regulatory body is essential for its efficiency, but also for the predictable and dynamic development of the electronic media market, it is stated in the Strategy for the Development of Public Information Funds, but above and after all the regulated roles and competences of such an important body are of paramount importance for the overall social and cultural atmosphere. Once again I will take the opportunity to congratulate the future elected member of the REM Council and wish him and the entire Council a lot of success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6806	I thank the MP Jelena Mihailovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6807	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will today discuss the selection of REM members. I'm not going to talk about it in particular, because the Committee on Culture and the Honorable President of Christmas absorbed it extremely well yesterday in this high house, but it was also about the media. Let me still say as a member of the Committee and as a man who's been following the media for decades for a few sentences. We are witnesses, respected vice presidents, from time to time, from minute to minute, continuing with various lies, fictions, media attacks on the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, his family, his parents, and in recent days, the fiction from the bottom of the snakes about his son Daniel. These brutal media attacks on Alexander Vukic are the work of the mob-criminal political groups and individuals both domestic and foreign activities. Certain media employees under the control of Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, individual analysts, charlatans of untruths and fictions from the bottom of the katice about the president, his family, poison his parents to the limit of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, this goes to pathology, as it threatens to kill. Those things have to stop right now. I will not speak individually, but it would take me one half day to list a date, an hour and a month in the last year, and let me just say that one feather is under the control of Dragan Gilas, quote: "If Brnabićka resigns to know that a life-long Vukic is being prepared. There's no boycott, just a pipe to the head. “, finished quote, one daily, January 19, 2020, page 5. It is not this, honourable MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the first time from the party of Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, who is seeking the president's death. Remember the headlines of a weekly and a daily list under the control of Dragan Gilas, which posted a photograph of a sniper pointed at President Vukic, who was described as a threat to death and a call for murder. Respected lawyers of the Republic of Serbia, lawyers, university professors, calling for murder is a crime, only not if it is the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family. These media attacks under the control of Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, along with certain foreign power centres, have only one goal, which is to bring down by the authorities of Aleksandar Vukic and destabilising the Republic of Serbia and bring them to power to bring Serbia back to the brink of bankruptcy. These moral gromads fell so low that a journalist under the control of Dragan Gilas wrote an open letter to the parents of President Vukic, insulting both them and President Vukic with insults that history does not remember. I read that letter here. Is there at least a little bit of that shame analyst, and in the morning when he wakes up and looks in the mirror? Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratic country in which media criticism of authorities is allowed, even desirable because it acts medicinally, but I underline, there is a huge insurmountable difference between criticism and media attacks. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and everything else is media attacks. No respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian ruler, in his term in modern Serbian history, has been falsely and publicly attacked, and has had greater support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and has built the country more, rather than Aleksandar Vukic. Have someone deny me from the ranks of Dragan Gilas, who has not yet answered 30 questions asked in this high house. Yes, on his portal of insults, and he thinks he'll scare us. He was wrong, he was painting for nothing. The president of the state and some of his associates are being attacked by a small, but for Serbian citizens, a very dangerous group, controlled by Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, because they want to go to power without a choice, along the street, because they have the experience on October 5th 2000. During the government, respected citizens, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, the media in Serbia were totally trapped via Dragan Gilas. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as confirmed by the late Verica Barac, who said, I quote: "It is allowed here that Mayor Gilas has private companies dealing with the media. It's insolence and cynicism. He's always doing business with his budget. “ A quote has been completed. Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, washed our money and ended up in Mauritius and 17 other countries and over 67 accounts and God knows where else. And not only that, congratulating late Verica Barac said, I quote: “Gilas is doing everything that is opposite of the media. He buys minutes, they pay in advance with advances, and that affects the media very much. They controlled daily newspapers, bought media space and censored newspapers. “ A quote has been completed. Is that right, Mr. Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas? Finally, while our President Vukic daily returns the international reputation of the country throughout the world, implementing peace policy, solidarity policy with all countries, the health policy of all our citizens, regardless of religion and nation, the policy of accelerated economic progress, the policy of compromise of our southern Serbian province, and all this, due to the future of our country, until Dragan Gilas spreads lies and fiction about our president, our country and citizens of Serbia, to cover up 619 million and God knows how much more. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have been keeping track of everything since 2012, and even before, they are particularly doing this to President Djilas and Jeremic ahead of significant meetings with the presidents of significant countries. This time before meeting with the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Zeman, they attacked his son with the lies at the bottom of the snake. They did it before they met with the President of France. They did it before they met in the U.S. Because of the weather, I can't list it all now. Let me say this at the end. Dear People's MPs, Serbia is rapidly building and modernising. In order to achieve the plotted programme, which our President of the Republic of Serbia has proposed in 2021-2025, and I am confident that we will, and everything the SNS has promised since 2012, the most important things it has done has been said, written down, achieved. We need to vaccinate today. Let's all vaccinate. Let's save the lives of our citizens. I especially appeal to students, my former students and my associate professors, and there are several hundred thousand in my life. Because as one citizen said on one television these days, I quote: "What our President Vukic is doing for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia does not work for any president in the world. Em gives you vaccines for free, em gives you every kind of vaccine, and pays you to vaccinate. “ A quote has been completed. That, respected citizens, is nowhere to be found. We vaccine ourselves, we vaccinate, we vaccinate, because of the future of our country, because of our country's economic prosperity, because of the wider region, and because of Europe as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6808	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6809	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, as regards the election of REM members, it is important that the parliamentary majority be prepared to advance the work of this regulatory body, and in terms of the election of all members. It is up to members to fully independent, and in accordance with the best interests of society and the public, professionally, responsibly, with a lot of integrity and knowledge, carry out their work. The law on their jurisdiction is very clear, and it is up to them to respect everything the law requires them to do. According to the Public Information System Development Strategy, brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020 to 2025, the main objectives are to improve the public information system through a positive legal framework guaranteeing freedom of expression, media pluralism, developed media market, a strengthened journalistic profession and educated citizenship. Media literacy is presented in the Strategy as a long-term goal. One of the positive changes is the introduction of the "Language, Media and Culture" election course. According to a survey conducted by the BRODI, high school students in Serbia are records in the use of social networks. According to the survey, 9% of the teaching staff admitted that they don't even know what media literacy is. Similar results were obtained when it comes to students and journalists. The conclusion is that education on media Describing is necessary for all age groups. However, we are witnessing that the primate in the media world took the internet, more specifically – social networks. Digital technologies essentially change the media eco-system, mode of production, distribution and content reception. Thus, the media audience also transformed and became an active participant and content creator. Because of all this, it is also very important to talk about digital literacy and culture that actually represent the ability to use the Internet safely, all the advantages of this kind of communication but also responsibly, through consciousness, to leave lasting clues in the digital world. There is a wide variety of content available on the Internet, including the inappropriate, deguant, and false news is too high. Recently, a small portal caused a real avalanche of negative comments on social networks, as it announced false news that the museum "21. October," alluding to the Šumarica Memorial Park, he moved from Kragujevac to Belgrade, accusing lawmakers from Kragujevac of participating in the decision-making process. It's a real example of the worst spin. Imagine now this amount of illogical and shameful lies, written and placed in order to arouse the public, because for every citizen of Kragujevac it is certainly a very painful and sensitive topic. The average reader on the Internet will not enter into the illogical nature of such publications, nor will he enter into the essence of the story. There's only one bomb title that sounds sensational. Unfortunately, I don't see the possibility that the Regulatory Body can react in these situations, which are increasingly in the digital world, and about the hate speech that I'm not talking about. And that's one big and serious problem. That's why it's important, and it's also becoming primarily, to educate young people, to appeal to the community to work on the education and digital literacy of everyone. Public radio and television services must meet the informative needs of each individual, all social groups, to be a source of impartial information and diverse content that is in line with the highest quality standards of the programme, but also ethical standards. In order to achieve the objective, a regulatory framework has been established, and above all, the Public Media Services Act. Of course there's plenty of room for perfection and advancement. There are a lot of objections to software content, but it's important that we have a choice. And it's a really big choice and it gives you different options. Here I would quote musician Rambo Amadeus who said – there is no one who would prevent people from including Ju-Tub instead of watching "The Cooperative" and listening to Rahmanjin's concert. Freedom of choice means taking responsibility for your own destiny. He has absolutely the right to choose to be uninformed, lazy, unsuccessful. And no one will show up to take him by the sleeve and tell him – don't do this, don't do that, because it's a personal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6810	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6811	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will also look back on the election for REM members, and at the very beginning I would like to point out that the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media is an independent and independent regulatory organisation, established by the Law on Electronic Media in 2014 and has since done business as a Republic Radio-Diffusing Agency. REM today exercises public authority in order to effectively implement the establishment of a policy in the field of media services in the Republic of Serbia. I could hear from my predecessors, when it comes to REM, certain findings, and I would relate some of the comments that were made when it came to REM. My colleague Jelena Mihajlovic has already talked a lot about it, and I want to talk about it through the prism of the growing roles that the media plays in the lives of young people and our children. They are now surrounded by the media from birth, and we must be careful that their content is spread uninterrupted, precisely because certain forms of behavior would not become norms and completely socially acceptable, because I think the consequences of it will wait for us, especially in the future, and I have the impression that REM, especially when we talk about this content that comes from the reality of the programme, has not always responded adequately and that in certain situations it has been either mild, or their reaction has been completely absent. Accordingly, I think REM members must be competent people and be people with their own integrity. We choose between two candidates today. I'd say we choose between experience and youth. In any case, reading their biographies, I'm absolutely sure that both candidates meet these conditions and I can say that everyone in their own way has a very rich biography for themselves. First of all, Mr Milorad Vukasinovic owns, as far as I could see, an experience in the field of journalism. In addition, he has performed a number of other responsible functions and outside of the press work, he has written several books and what is significant for someone who does this job for so many years does not own a single spot in his career, which I find very important for the candidate as a future REM member. Especially, as a member of the younger generation, with the very beginning I want to say that youth cannot and cannot be the only comparative advantage as a passing category, but Mr. Goran Eror who, for his 30 years, truly has one huge experience. As far as I could see, Mr. Goran Eror also had a high average score on master's studies, the editor is more emissions from agriculture, but also the news and diary manager, also, on Vojvodina Radio. In addition, as far as I could conclude, he does not have a socially responsible engagement and has recognitions from different areas and spheres of our social life. In any case, a candidate who deserves attention and I think he deserves congratulations for having dared to approach this process of candidacy and to be in front of us and can serve young generations as a good example, which are the values that we as a society need and we have to strive for. In any case, I would like to wish that candidate elected to be a REM member of the work and to carry out my post in accordance with the law and in the best interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of the whole of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6812	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6813	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regarding REM and football and transmission. This is about the haters of the FK Novi Pazar, they're talking about a fair play. Well, on behalf of that fair-play, I wasn't against it, that New Market was twice administrative, not sports results, put into the first league, or what it's called the Super League. So, that some injustice against the FK of Novi Pazar, in my opinion, does not exist at all. Ladies and gentlemen, if it takes a third time, I don't mind. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, REM as Tanya Fajon has seen REM, it's one room for fraud. I don't want these candidates to look up to the old REM members. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. It is responsible, not us, not the Ministry of Information, to control in a certain way whether these media are working in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media and some other laws that regulate certain areas in electronic media, in the work of electronic media. So I'll take my turn. You've heard of cross-border television re-emissioning programs, cross-border re-emissioning programs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 30 channels belonging to United Media, and United Media is also the CAS Media, "Darrekt Media", owned by Gilas, at least he owned them until recently. They have 30 channels that are reportedly across the border and rerouting the program across the border here. Re-emission means at the same time by taking over a media service that is being conducted across the border for the general public. They've fictitiously registered in Luxembourg 30 channels. A Luxembourg operator answered my question that they were registered in Luxembourg, but they do not broadcast the program there. Therefore, N1, "Nova S", "Sport clubs", "Sinemania", "Grand" etc. are channels that are only fictitiously registered and do not broadcast a programme for the general public in Luxembourg. So I ask you, what are they doing, and re-emissioning is, by law, taking over media services without any changes, additions and terminations? So, what goes to Luxembourg for viewers, we can look here on cross-border televisions that re-emission the program. It's re-emitting. Since there's no program there, I ask you, me and everyone else and the REM people, what's being taken over at the same time? So that's 30 fictitious channels. Their editorial policy is not the subject of my discussion. They can edit their programs any way they want, but they have to register in Serbia or be classic cross-border television, such as CNN, BBC, Sky, Montenegrin Television, Croatian Television, whose programs here are viewed as across the border, which come here without change, termination, etc. It does not happen with these channels and it does not surprise me that even Yugoslavia Ćosic has left such a company that is misleading. These TVs are not registered in Serbia, domestic television broadcasts from Serbia are registered and therefore have to pay all fees from SOKOJ, RATEL, REM, etc., all taxes etc. They have to pay because the TVs that broadcast the program here and because, as broadcasters, media service providers have the right to market, have the right to advertise, which, through border television, do not have the right to domestic advertising, or can only re-emission ads that are an integral part of the original programme, those that go to Luxembourg. So, through border television, they, by alleged re-emission, broadcast domestic advertising, which is also against the law. So that's how the freedom of the media is violated, because they take part of the cake, the advertising cake unauthorized, against the legal domestic TV, which pays all the taxes, but these others don't pay anything. It's like if you open a shoe shop in Belgrade and you pay everything and then someone opens next to you and says, "E, I'm registered in Luxembourg and I don't pay anything, and you see that shoes fix or do them in Belgrade." It's their behavior, it's a scam that happens with the help of REM sitting in Goran Petrovic and before Nenad Jankovic, so-called. The "Nesha cowboy", which was the founders of the SBB in Kragujevac when they were at Kragujevac Radiotelevision, together with Solak, founded the KDS that grew into SBB. Other fraud, end of classical channels, cross-border, "Fox flies", "Discoveres", "Histori", "Sinestar" channels. Turn on and see "Fox flies"; for example, you have a thousand seconds in one movie of ads that floods the original program. You're saying that in America he's going to "Fox" goes to the commercial "Zaecharski Beer", "Jellen Beer", "Diamanta" etc. Of course not. According to the Advertising Act, cross-border channels can re-air propaganda messages that are only an integral part of the original program that goes to America on "Fox" television. So in this way they take another part of the advertising market and thus financially endanger the domestic media that pays for everything. The third scam is a football, basketball team. In order to catch as many subscribers as possible, they are unauthorized to broadcast football, basketball games, etc. I have the Law here, article 64, which says that the most important events of interest for all citizens can be transmitted exclusively by channels that cover the entire territory of Serbia and have free access, i.e. That you can also look at the antenna. These TVs, sports clubs, "New Sports" have no right to meet these legal requirements. In order to transfer REM, I have a list of the most important events that include these sports events and I have a list here in 2018 and 2021, which says that qualifications for European, world championships and European and world championships alone can only be broadcast by televisions covering the entire territory of Serbia. That's not happening. On the one hand, they take through sports transmissions another part of the advertising market, endangering domestic media. On the other hand, unauthorized transfers due to citizens' interests collect more subscribers who are interested in watching the team and thus raise the price of advertising and, on the other hand, have more revenue than subscription. Fourth, last con. All these illegal revenues, which from the subscription regular, which are received, tempting, attracted through sports transfers, all the money almost from the subscription, all the money from the illegal broadcasting, through the programs that are reportedly being re-emissioned, they thus increase revenues. All these revenues pump out of Serbia and show losses here. They pump up by paying, home channels don't pay for anything on that cable. So they use their free programme, national television, regional and others, domestic TVs from SBB don't get white banks for what they use their product, but that's why N1, "Nova S", "Sport clubs", in Luxembourg and some other countries receive money for a re-emission service that doesn't exist. A favor is paid, it's called money laundering. It's a serious crime, tax offense, etc. A service that doesn't exist is paid. You abroad try to pay for a service that doesn't exist, you'll get tax collectors right at the door. Galam about freedom of the media serves only that con room as a hand to distract attention. The main revenues are in sports and advertising parties to end those cross-border channels I was talking about. The main incomes are from that. What N1, it's just a hand to distract itself, a scam happening to the other hand. So they're yelling about freedom of the media just to keep Solakova and Gilas' fraud and the biggest robbery going on and on. With this money, they are not only destroying power in the state of Serbia, they are slowly biting and destroying the state of Serbia, and they can broadcast whatever they want about me, about all of us, but they need to register, to work according to the laws of this country that are in line with international laws. So REM actively participated and defended Solakov and Gilas's business. It must be stopped once, and this robbery must be stopped and a new REM member, chosen by us, will have to pay particular attention to these frauds that are difficult annually, and only the fraud is being re-produced over 200,000 seconds a day on 30 channels and on 20 transboundary channels. Over 200,000 seconds to take just two euros, that's 400,000 euros times 365 days, only on marketing is stolen 150m euros, plus subscription. The fraud weighs 200m euros annually. I'm calling the authorities, the D.A.'s office, etc. Security authorities, especially REM to put an end to this robbery.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6814	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws of the Agenda as soon as possible this session. The word has been issued by the SPS MP, MP Djordje Milicevic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is 11 and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6815	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about proposals for a new composition, or we will choose a candidate for the REM Council. The Proposer is formally the Committee, but it would not be bad if, because of the very discussions we have had and because of the suggestions and suggestions that we refer to at the expense of REM's work, if not in the plenary, at least at the Committee meetings, the president of REM and other REM members attend, because we still have this supervisory role, except that we have an election role in a specific case. So, as for the recent discussion, I agree in the most part, and I think REM should tighten control when it comes to electronic emitters. As for the proposed candidates, we have well analyzed the biographies, analyzed what the goals are, as members of REM, and I must admit that we have not yet defined ourselves, that in the voting day we will define which of these two candidates we will support, because both candidates deserve attention. We'd like the most if we could vote for this candidate and both candidates would be members of the REM Council. What I want to say, and especially to point out, is that both candidates have passed one procedure. This procedure also required the activities of the Committee on Culture and Information. Why am I particularly apostrophealing and pointing this out? Because during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, for the first time, we had an interest in a part of the policy options for REM, for RTS, in media editorial policy. Why? So with only one clear goal, to re-control the media space in Serbia, to re-control every second of the media space in Serbia. They don't care about the election or the election conditions. The outcome was known in advance, an advance decision was made when it came to elections, but it was simply necessary to try at least in this way to control the media space in Serbia. At the time, one of the proposals was also a representative of the European Parliament to elect REM representatives in line with the best possible, I quote – European standards, in which me and the SPS Parliamentary Group disagree entirely. Sorry, we respect European standards, we want to become a member of the European Union. One of Serbia's main strategic and foreign policy objectives is to become a full member of the European Union, we show this determination, commitment and government as well as as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by talking for the first time in practice about the European Commission's report here in plenary, but you know how, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia has its own laws, the National Assembly has its own procedures. We will choose REM members according to our procedures, and it is good that whoever is elected by these two candidates, because both candidates are of quality, we will choose a high quality candidate, but we will choose them in accordance with our laws, in accordance with the laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, I have to remind you, we expect of, of course, the new REM members who are elected, to be responsible and quality in the work for which they assume responsibility in accordance with, I would say, the highest professional and professional, but, of course, above all moral standards, we expect from the Council what we expect from REM in the next period of time, and that is, above all, to be working to improve the quality and diversity of services in the field of electronic media, to protect public interests in the field of electronic media, but also to protect the interests of users. We expect the Council, in accordance with current rules, to define clear and precise rules, to play a control role, what Mr Risticevic was talking about, to perform the control role and to impose sanctions when necessary. Of course, the selection of REM members, as I said, does not end, I would say, the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia remains that control role, that we follow the work of the Council, that we follow the work of REM, that we follow the work of the newly elected members, and that we talk about it within the Committee on Culture and Information, but also when we discuss the annual report of the Council. But you know what the point here is? The point is in the next – we start talking about REM in 2020, just before the 2020 elections. Until then, everything was fine. Until then, REM was doing a great job. By then, all REM members had done their job well, but when it was necessary to return Serbia to the past and to one brain, when only one opinion had to be heard in Serbia, and everything else had to be left aside and when everyone had to think the same thing when I was talking about the media, then we started talking about REM, trying to implement the members of the ReM Council as representatives of the opposition although it was not possible, because the law on this issue is completely clear. When we talk about REM, why are we even talking about REM, of course REM is related to the media in Serbia and I think that for several months, and especially since 2020, when it starts talking about electoral conditions in Serbia, and the electoral conditions in Serbia, you know very well, haven't been changed since 2008, so in 2020 someone remembered the electoral conditions because he saw that he had been wronged and that with a loud and unanimous attitude then to call early parliamentary elections, they saw that they had been wronged and that in fact, the extraordinary parliamentary elections meant not to win and not to represent some alternative to Serbia's political scene, but to be seen for them as political failures, then remember election conditions, remember REM and remember those who can turn to press Serbia, which are European Parliamentarians. So what I'm saying is that a long period of time backwards lasts a hack and hysteria on REM that's directed from one part of the opposition. The reason is, above all, the lack of political ideas and the lack of a concrete political programme, but the fundamental reason is the need to go back eight years, to arrange, to deal with the editorial policy of the media when it was possible, I repeat, to hear only one opinion when we talk about REM, and it seems to me that it is a fundamental and fundamental thing, which is that we as representatives of political parties, representatives of different parliamentary groups should just as someone who has the legitimacy and trust of citizens, who has received a mandate from citizens, to do one responsible and serious job, we should help the work of independent regulatory bodies, to strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, not to push independent regulatory bodies into political ring, to use them for our own needs and for their own purposes. Our job, at least we from the SPS parliamentary group, is how we look at business when we talk about REM. Our job is to support REM in what is most important, which is to work under the law, to control of course, to sanction, of course, when it is necessary and when necessary, and not to interpret the laws as it suits each other and to ask and to insist specifically on REM to violate those same laws. The electronic media regulatory body is not a political entity, REM is not a participant in parliamentary elections, is not a participant in the presidential election, will not be a participant in next year's city elections, so neither REM can decide who will lose and who will win the next presidential city and parliamentary elections. There is no REM obligation to follow the elections in Serbia, and I am fully convinced that this is not defined in any legal framework, correct me if I am wrong, but by government order and by government order, the OEPS, in agreement with ODIR, will follow the entire election campaign in 2020. It is interesting that only a few days from the moment the whole story was finished, when we talk about the first phase of inter-party dialogue, so when the whole story was finished around REM, and there was a fam about REM and about editorial policy and about media freedom, it is interesting that only a few days after the completion of that first phase of the inter-party dialogue, European parliamentarians visited REM and then very clearly said, quote – there are two parallel countries, two parallel institutions, there are parallel media. I'm asking a question, so how is it there's no freedom of the media in Serbia, if there's some kind of parallel media? Then how can there be no media freedom in Serbia? I will remind you these are the same European parliamentarians who have expressed concern about democracy in Serbia, about freedom of the media in Serbia and we have made it clear to them - there is no need to worry about democracy in Serbia, democracy in Serbia is being realized in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course, and we all have done everything together in our power to have far better electoral conditions than those we had in 2008. We are ready to listen to all suggestions and suggestions, we listened to them during the first phase of inter-party dialogue. We are ready to continue the second phase of the inter-party dialogue, not for one moment have we challenged and questioned it. We have not discredited any European Parliamentarian, on the contrary, what the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insisted was just one thing, which is - he has transferred the position of most political parties involved in the whole process, which is that we expect European parliamentarians to be impartial and objective. So, no, that those of us who want to listen to suggestions and suggestions and those who want to talk to European parliamentarians and those who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, talk to us about the institutions of the system, and that those who need to volunteer, participate in the elections, talk in hotel lobbys. You'll admit to the least of it, that's incorrect. As for freedom of the media, I know that I am running out of time, as far as freedom of the media is concerned, you know it's very interesting and a bit hypocritical when the European Parliament is not criticising, but I say, when the European Parliament says it is concerned about freedom of the media in Serbia, and we are asking one simple question – why in 2011 were you not concerned about the freedom of the media in Serbia when the Verice Barac report was drawn up in which it is explicitly, precisely, clearly all defined? Every second of space and anyone who took a second of space and took up a second of space in the national frequency media, why weren't you gentlemen interested in freedom of the media in Serbia then? The answer I got on the question is – we weren't reporters. Excuse me, you were European Parliamentarians. If the election conditions are important to you, they must have been important to you in 2011. Thank you, Madam Chairman. In voting day, we'll define ourselves. Both candidates are high-quality, both candidates deserve and both candidates can be members in our opinion, but in the voting day, we will define which candidate we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6816	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is always a certain chill, but not with us in the National Assembly, but in one part of the former regime whenever one of the members of the REM Council is elected and whatever decision is made by the National Assembly and whatever decisions he makes so-called. REM, two Dragans, one Gilas, another Solak, will try to imagine that there is a dictatorship in Serbia and that the media in Serbia are working exclusively on the orders of a dictator. If a little attention is paid to one of my predecessors, Marijana Risticevic, who explained very nicely that in Serbia, through a cable operator owned by Dragan Šolak, several cross-border television channels dealing exclusively with the political scene in Serbia are being broadcast, and all actors involved in the work of these cross-border channels are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the programme is emerging in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then the question is, is this possible in some dictatorial regime? How did we come to call present President Alexander Vukic the media controlled by Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak a dictator? Since, not since 2012, they have reconciled that the SNS has come to power, that the DS has lost power, but they have hoped and made it all seem that those instruments they had then, using state resources primarily to earn money, that is, gain wealth that they will be able to continue them and when the regime changes. Since the new government did not allow it, as Dragan Gilas realized that he would have to work much richer and participate in the market, much to give up and that he would no longer be able to use these state resources together with Solak and increase his wealth enormously, so Aleksandar Vukic became a dictator. From that moment on. Legally, it's the right to have someone work to make money, it's not legitimate for someone to want to deal with politics to make huge money. This shows the meaning of their policy-making and the work of these cross-border channels. I'll only give you one detail that proves all this. We are constantly calling for the inter-party dialogue that we have accepted, some with the intermediation of the European Parliament, some are without, but what is most interesting in that part that was carried out with European Parliament mediators, that is one requirement that Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak, the denominators, which is that one of these cross-border TV channels or television get the national frequency. It has nothing to do with the election campaign, it has nothing to do with representing candidates in some upcoming elections, they know they have nothing to ask for in those elections, they know they can't win, they only want one thing. Getting a national frequency would make Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak richer by one 300, 400m euros. It costs so much television that it has a national frequency on condition that there's only one camera and one chair and one room called the studio, that's their purpose in politics and nothing will stop them if they fail in that intention, they represent the people's will as a dictatorship. The support received by the president of the Republic of Serbia from Serbian citizens is a dictatorship because this support is undivided, unequivocal, it will represent Serbian citizens as a credential Serbia who cannot choose its representatives, right, is that this intellectual elite should rule, be even richer, and that Serbia should serve only them. And they won't resist even having members of the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia trying to bring the media into crime and withdraw the criminal accounts and organised crime that occurred and which was exploited most during their government. Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak don't have their own country. To them, Serbia serves only to be richer and even more powerful, Serbian citizens serve only to be robbed. Therefore, even in the next election, whenever they are, neither Dragan Gilas nor Dragan Solak will be able to tailor the Republic of Serbia, the electoral will of its citizens and the power that citizens choose, it must be clear to them once, and no one can help them even to influence any members of the REM Council, to get national frequencies, to win minority governments on the street, and not in the elections, to forget that story, October 5th was 21st, we are all aware of what damage he did to us and I guarantee it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6818	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6819	Thank you. At the very beginning, I must say that it is quite difficult to wait three days for you to come forward and say something on the subject, but on the other hand and sweet because you know that the support of the serious SNS has in force, the size of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, it also shows the privilege that every time we can report here and say important things, so for this reason it is important to integrate into this discussion that you already have the opportunity to say and everything that has been the subject of the agenda of the previous days, because unfortunately we can't report every time, we can't arrive because the time is up. For this reason, you will forgive me if my discussion is a little bit and wider in relation to the context and on the subject that is before us today, and in any case the selection of REM members is an extremely important topic and that the biographies of the people who have presented this and the Committee on Culture that has proposed this, has great responsibility in proposing these candidates and that, in any case, and of course after their verification, we will follow their work, but above all here in the discussions, suggest everything that happens in the means of public information, in the media, on various portals, on social networks and everything else, which is also a broader context, perhaps in relation to everything we say today. For this reason, you won't mind me looking first of all at one topic that came from the ranks of the current opposition, and I don't know how long they'll be able to carry that qualification of the opposition, it seems to me that some other forces and some other political currents will all more suppress those who call themselves a well-established opposition, because apparently they're wandering in time and space, and they're trying to qualify themselves as someone who's credible again. We know that their credibility doesn't exist primarily because we don't love them, because our political opponents, but because they didn't qualify during that period when they exercised power and we know the consequences of Serbia, our society had after that long-standing government. In this context, I find it very interesting, and I think it should be a theme and the REM Council, which means a term – refanchism, which certain politicians from these groups are constantly in the media that are available on a daily basis, 24 hours in seven days to speak in these media, these portals, etc.? What that term means and whether it's connected to the lustration term is really not clear to me, but it's clear to me that they would get revenge. I would just like to remind all Serbian citizens to look back a little bit, that whenever someone was trying to take revenge, when he came to that opportunity, that Serbia had been killed, that its citizens had been killed and that it was never good. So, this platform that they're advocating in this kind of story means that in some future time period, if they don't give God power, should I expect some evil. In that context, speaking of rematchism, I have to say that this team can't first of all call itself a former DOS, and even if they called themselves DOS we wouldn't have a problem in any way to beat them in the elections, nor are they in the 1990s that they're trying to bring down that analysis and put us in that context. For that reason, I just want to say that the way the SNS was handled during that period when they were in power and I'm making that comparison with that rematch that they're announcing today with everything they've been doing in that period of power. To ask a question, what does that rematch mean? Does this mean that during the period when they ruled and God forbid they came to power again, that we should remind ourselves of everything that was the way it was. To remind ourselves that during the period, here is the political just to say, while they were the government that Montenegro declared independence, that the false state of Kosovo declared its independence, and that the political, economic, economic, economy in the context of privatisation and everything else, in the context of the judiciary, the media and everything else, the consequences they created were lasting. To remind a little of how the SNS fought from the beginning of 2008 to 2012, so to say that we had more modest resources at our disposal one Fokus radio station, where my colleague Ugljesa Mrdić, colleague Vlad Djukanovic, Ksenija Vukic, daily in conversation with citizens, communicated in an open program and were not afraid to hear the voice of the people. Or maybe helping us in terms of coming to power for maybe the last month was the possibility that on a cable TV "Copernikus" before the May 2012 elections, one of us, of our officials then and candidates, would be visiting on that television. Or, we should compare that to the role of the victim they represent today on the international agenda, on the inside, that they have no space in the media with a set of television channels that they have at their disposal, portals, media, radio stations, all weekdays practically except for one, daily newspaper where they simply, if you look at it now and do one comparatively, have no topic, or their theme is rematchism. You know what, when we get there, we're gonna clean it up, we're gonna rematch, lustration, and we're supposed to be in fear because someone's announcing it to them. I don't think their names should even mention how miserable they are and how miserable they are in terms of everything they represent. To bring these politicians' credibility to light, I will set an example in terms of this rematchism or lustration, as they should rightly call it, that they adopted such a law in 2003. The law was called the Law of Responsibility for Human Rights and was adopted in 2003 and is valid until 2013. During that period when they announced it after the five-octobaric changes in 2000, none of them did, they did not. Therefore, credibility for this topic does not exist at all. So, not only did you announce it, or did you adopt it in your congregational majority, we also know how you made the congregation majority, both majority and minority, and that there were no preconditions, no political will in all of it, and now you're trying to announce it again. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it came to power, first minority, then in 2014 and took full responsibility when Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic became one, did not take revenge on anyone. It may be politically said that it is a mistake, but we think it is both Christian, human and political, because we pushed the story forward, we watched as we raised Serbia from the knees they threw it at, and we never came to that position again to do what unfortunately they did in that past period, not only did they do, but they did harm. We will not allow it anyway, but what is important in all of this to point out that all the political power we have here in parliament, the ratings we have among the citizens, we will benefit from everything we can see every day, that is to raise Serbia, to raise it on a political basis, to raise it on an infrastructure plan, on an economic basis, on a plan to fight crime and corruption and everything else, and we will not spend our time on any rematch. We expect only from judicial institutions, of all those who in the state of Serbia should do their job to and what was in the past if it was not outdated, and unfortunately most of it has become obsolete, to process and regardless of the name and name. We will not sow fear, we will not send messages of any sort of rematch, we will not send messages of any kind of revenge, because for the very end of it, whenever someone in their political platforms has mentioned revenge to Serbia, Serbia, its citizens have been killed. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party, our parliamentary group will fight for progress, for co-operation, for unity and for everything that our children mean for the future of our children, and that means a strong, strong, serious Serbia that is moving forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6820	I thank the People's MP Adam Shukal. Since there are no more words registered on the lists of parliamentary groups, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the search on the list of candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue; Mina Rolović Jocic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue; Nina Matic, Assistant Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue; Ivana Joksimović, Deputy Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Svetlana Djordjevic, Adviser at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Djordje Komlenski, as well as the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6821	Thank you, Chairman. If it were the opposite order of the debate, it would be much simpler and clearer to explain the amendments, where first the Law on Gender Equality, but of course, the Rules of Procedure is the Rules of Procedure, then we will go like this. In this law, concerning the proposed Article 2, I suggested that Article 3 which speaks of segregation be deleted from it for two reasons, because I believe that segregation is a very serious offence which is not a place in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, it is a place in criminal laws and such provisions in order to be far more precise, more applicable and adequately subject to sanctions, is a place in the Criminal Law, which should therefore be derived from the work and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. I do not disdain the work of colleagues who have worked on this proposal, but as defined in this proposal, and if it remains in the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, it is therefore implemented as part of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it can create serious problems in the application of the law itself. It's simply something that was my desire to correct it through this amendment, and in some future time, having it all in mind defines through the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6822	Thank you. The word has a minister, Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6823	The segregation as defined in the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, says that segregation is any act that separates a natural or legal person without objective and reasonable justification from another person or a group of persons on the basis of a personal quality as defined in Article 1(2) of Article 1 of this Act, and voluntary separation from other persons on the basis of personal property does not constitute segregation. It's a human rights term and that's what's happening in life in Serbia, because you don't have the territory of the Republic of Serbia's primary school, which is an example of segregation, for example in the town of Nis, and it's not the only place where all Roma children are housed in one school, because parents don't want Roma children to go to the same ward with their children. How much is this criminal activity? Not at all. How much is allowed? Not at all. That's why segregation is a place in this law, because it's not the only example that segregation tends to be very authoritative, that they're full of understanding for different from themselves, but in reality you have that they won't betray the Roma's apartment or that their children go to school with the Roma or any other person different from them by ethnic and national origin. That's why we don't accept this amendment. Is there going to be a problem with the application? Of course, as always when you deny the reality of the discrimination of some faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6824	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6825	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say something that I didn't arrive when the debate was on the principle of proposals for a law on gender equality and a ban on discrimination. What is essential is to point out that Serbia has made huge progress in these two areas and can be classified in the rank of more modern and developed EU countries when it comes to the ban on discrimination, when it comes to fighting discrimination on any basis and principle. I think it's very good that as sure as most in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we're going to vote for both of these laws, but this goes in favour of even stronger support, fighting discrimination and, of course, fighting for the special rights of women and all those who definitely are, although we live in the 21st century, the century of the fourth industrial revolution, scientific and technological development, it's something we face in everyday life and work. I would particularly like to note that the Republic of Serbia has made a clear institutional concept, an institutional framework to combat this kind of phenomenon, which, of course, has a negative impact on the development of the state itself, on modernisation, and ultimately on our economic development and prosperity, since practice has shown that in particular in politics, when we have represented women and when they have the opportunity to be represented in a large number, especially in the process of managing state institutions, we have both additional results and additional opportunities for our country. What is very important and what I would point out to you, Madam Minister, is that we are fighting for this together in the coming period, these are economic rights of women, these are many projects and ambience that need to be done to strengthen women economically. I mean, if that's a key aspect, it's a key thing to talk about equality, so that an area of equality and anti-discrimination, in the end, leads to some level where we're going to talk about it only in some philosophical aspect, so we're talking about some rare phenomena that can happen in our society. So the key thing is that we have as many projects as possible within the framework of the promotion of women's entrepreneurship and to create our own ambience to make women faster and more courageously bold to launch private initiatives, entrepreneurial initiatives and to be as independent as possible. I think that's the key to this problem. I think the quota policy, it is good to start with, has shown some of its results, but I think we'll only show the final result and success when we have such an ambience that no matter what kind of gender it is, it can run its own business, it can be employed anywhere, and it can't be discriminated against in any way. I think we're definitely going that way. When I compare myself with some many developed countries, I now speak in an area where I have enough information and where I am at the source of information, let's say the issue of women's participation in politics, I think we have great results, I think that in fact Serbia has shown that there is enough political will to show that we can deal with the problem and we can one day, in the near future, say that discrimination, absolutely no. A country that is a symbol, which is the basis of democracy and democratic order, so the United States has about 550 members in its convention somewhere in the last assembly of about 80 women. The previous meeting had about 50 women, so that's some number that's moving between nine, so far about 15%. We all know that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia there are, I think, 94 MPs, that there exist and that the Women's Parliamentary Network works well. That's what you were talking about. In the end, you participated in the work of the network, and on the other hand we supported it, as something that is a very good initiative and something that promotes the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a good example of women throughout Serbia, not only here in Belgrade, that they have the possibility, have a framework, have a good signal and a good political will to fight further for their rights, wherever they live, anywhere they work. Of course, we will fight by legally achieving a quality legal framework so that they cannot be discriminated against on any basis. Therefore, what is the point and where I want to point out in this speech is that President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have a political will to address the issue of gender equality and the issue of anti-discrimination in a systematic, strategic way, which as a main result will have a single society of equal opportunities for all people who will absolutely not have this topic on a daily basis, which we are talking about over the past few days, but we will talk about who is more qualified, who is better for a particular directorial position or position in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state institution, regardless of which half and gender belongs. That's the kind of policy we're going to continue with. The Serbian Progressive Party will support such a policy, such initiatives in the coming period because we want a competitive society, where we mean where women and men have the same rights to compete in the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6826	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6827	Thank you. It's a good thing you mentioned the U.S., because it's in the debate on amendments to these laws that change social relations and which prohibit behavior based on prejudice, to take a good look at in the last hundred years, when it comes to segregation. In the 1960s, little girl Ruby, a black girl, accompanied her to school with a federal agent and a marshal. The whole of America thought it was inadmissible, that black kids would go with white kids to school. Only recently, in essence as a society, the United States faces all proportions of racism as a means, as personal traits that are chosen for mercy against different colors of skin. What's important is that there's a dialogue there. What we want to build is dialogue in Serbia is why we have segregation? The women you mentioned were also the target of segregation, because they were women, only because they couldn't go to the same classes, the same departments with boys, just 70 or 100 years after that. Girls' schools are open later than boys' schools. You have one will in society to treat someone, an individual or a social group ruthlessly because of some personal quality. And what I agree with, which is that Serbia is firmly determined to build a culture of human rights and to deal with women's human rights and anti-discrimination, it is that together we fight for such a will for ruthless treatment towards any other of us to be crowned as quickly as we all invest energy in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6828	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6829	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the law in particular, I mean amendments and additions to the Law on Discrimination, and the Law on Gender Equality. I'd like to say, as head of the parliamentary group, today something we didn't say as a parliamentary group, in principle. As a parliamentary group, we will certainly support both of these laws in the voting day for the reason that we have carefully read both laws, carefully analyzed them, and have seen that there are many good solutions, and that there has been a lot of scale and criterion, when it comes to individual solutions, which, from the point of view between us, in the Single Serbia and our policy, are quite important and that some lines have not been crossed, which we have set ourselves in a political programme. Unique Serbia has always advocated the ban on discrimination, i.e. against discrimination, has always advocated gender equality, and that is the case, it also says that as a political party, we are at the highest political post we have, and that is the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have chosen the wife, the lady, Marija Jevdzic, and we are proud of it. We believe that the law on gender equality, not even need to be passed, because gender equality, is civilizational fluid, something that is normal, something that is understood. We don't think that's a legal issue that needs to be regulated by law, but we're also aware of those needs. We don't share people in half, not by nationality, not by faith, by color of the skin, we look at people from the point of view of their human characteristics, we look at the views of their honor, their truthfulness, whether they respect their tradition, culture and how they treat their country, how they behave as citizens of the state where they live, and these are the only parameters with which, and from the point of view, from which we look at people, and certainly not according to some of their specificities and personalities. But while we are talking about gender equality, there are people like Dragan Gilas who give themselves the right to beat up an ex-marriage and the closest members of the family, all in front of children. While we're talking about gender equality here today, there are people like Dragan Gilas hiding behind the opposite sex and pushing out the opposite sex to promote it personally and serve as any shield. While we're talking about gender equality today, there are people against Dragan Gilas who pay women to insult other women like when one of his women and workers came out in front of a public institution in one city and brought the most serious insults against all the women who work in the public sector in that city. While we are talking about gender equality today, there are people against Dragan Gilas who abuse the difficult and problematic situation of a minor girl for getting the cheapest political points possible. While we're talking about a ban on discrimination today, we have people like Dragan Gilas who give themselves the right and put themselves above others, so they're threatening a traffic cop who was just doing his job, threatening journalists who were just doing their job, threatening students on the street just because they said something he didn't like. Although we in Unity Serbia believe that such laws and laws are not necessary because they are a civilizational achievement, because they are something that is meant and that is normal because of these people, we are aware of the need to pass this law, or these laws. And, while we here today, but not just today and every day, we pass laws that make the state of Serbia a better, more efficient, safer, more powerful, there are people like Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic who do everything to weaken the lies of the cloud and in every way destabilise the state that gave them everything that gave them freedom, which gave them the possibility of education, which gave them the opportunity to use various life opportunities in which they live and work. Why are they doing this? Because those at the bottom of their souls hate strong Serbia, because they hate traditional Serbian culture, tradition, customs. They even seem to hate Serbia's multiethnicity, because every nation bothers them. They deny the nation, they deny national cultures, they deny national traditions. For them it is all peasant, for them it is all primitive; they hate from the bottom of the soul, and the Shumadinite, and Lalah, and Eru, and the Bunjevac, and Zaplanjec; for they are all that they are against, and what they hate most. They'd like to destroy the family as the basic pillar of our society. They want a world in which they will rule without choice, in which they will rule without law and in which all men will be their plebs. That is why they also attacked Dragan Markovic Palm, because he is a typical representative of the country, or Serbia, which they hate from the bottom of their soul. He is family, he protects tradition, he respects church, he cultivates traditional culture, he loves his hearth, he advocates a single Serbian state in which all nations will be proud of their identity, a state where all nations will respect each other, respect each other, a country they respect and trust. Now, such a Serbia they want to portray as depraved, such a Serbia they want to show as backward, as decadent, because it is precisely the Shumadins, Ere, Lale, Bunjeci, the Zaplans that are the biggest obstacle to achieving their orwell's supranational, supinetial and anti-democratic governments. It is clear to them that the Shumadins, Ere, Bunjevi, Zaplans and others will never support their imposing values, their attempt to violently change their consciousness, the destruction of tradition and traditional culture, morals and families, but the forest oak of freedom, self-determination, unity deep in roots, is strong and healthy, and its branches reach every part of Serbia. The oak has endured much more trouble than Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas. Serbia has shown through history, and today it also shows that it can be national and democratic, that it can be traditional and modern, that it can be its own but part of the world. While we today, and not only today, are passing laws and building and strengthening the institutions of the state, Marinika Tepic at the door of the Higher Prosecutor's Office last week after the testimony, not blinking, agreeing that the prosecutor has promised to transfer the case from the prosecution to the Royal Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, although she knows that there is no legal basis for it, even though she knows that it was not even spoken of in the prosecution, but she simply plays her lying games with the institutions of this state, forcing the prosecution which has been committed to work all these days, which has not been advertised and has just done its job, that she has to deny her allegations. Why would she do that? Because she had nothing to say to the D.A.'s office, because there were no victims, no witnesses, and then as a gambler who had no cards in her hands, she started to raise her stakes, she didn't want the Jagodina D.A.'s office to move. When it's moved to the Kingdom, now it's no good for the King, it's looking for a prosecutor's office for organised crime in Belgrade, so can The Hague, and so can Mauricias, whatever, but the facts remain. Wherever she is, she has no evidence, she has no victims, because everything she said was lying, everything she said was made up, and it's all in fiction and within her circle of corruption. Yesterday, Sanda Raskovic Ivić said on one of their TVs: "Here, you see what is happening in Serbia while Igor Juric is bringing the police in," she said, and did not bring her in, but simply called to inform herself about his allegations of organised pedophilia in Serbia, "Dragan Markovic Palma thunders on national televisions. "Well, does Sanda Raskovic Ivić give herself the right to judge her, and that the one she judges in advance and with her lies, because everything she has said has lied to, too, and it has been denied by Professor Veraldi, and I have told it here, not to repeat myself to the ambassador of Serbia in Italy and the magazine "Time", decidently denied, she does not, she forbids, anyone from defending herself from her disgusting, low, most disgusting lies. That's what the Pharisees used to do, and that's why I call this team the Pharisees of the Serbian political scene. Of course, I can only tell her that she cannot manipulate the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens are not her patients. Serbian citizens know that they are thinking, know that they are thinking, and know very well that they are making very reasonable and very responsible decisions. They're cowards. Dragan Gilas, and everyone else who beats women, who abuse them, who neglect them, are cowards. He also showed that he did not accept it, i.e. he refused a TV duel with Dragan Markovic Palm. Today, Dragan Markovic Palma invited him to go to a polygraph, because Serbian citizens deserve the truth, deserve to know who is here and in this whole situation, because this affair he designed and financed by Dragan Gilas has upset Serbia's public, has upset Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have the right to know what is true, but they as cowards avoid facing the truth, avoid looking into the eyes of those who falsely accuse. I'm guessing he'll avoid a polygraph, too. But let's go back to this topic of ours again. Serbia is democratic, Serbia is strong, Serbia is its own, Serbia is part of the world. We saw the Serbian truth come out the other day. We have had a very important statement by the president of the Czech Republic, a statement that we have not been able to hear so far, and that is the great success of today's Serbia. The success cannot undo these Pharisees of a political scene, such as Dragan Djilas, such as Marinika Tepic and the rest of the world and the brotherhood. Serbia is respected today. We will also vote here on gender equality law and we will vote here on the ban on discrimination and make Serbia even closer to the world, make it stronger and even more successful. Once again, we as a parliamentary group will vote for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6830	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word has a proprietor, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6831	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, I suggested that Article 3 be deleted. Article 3 has been submitted by the proposing that Article 7. The law prohibiting discrimination changes and says that it gets a huge space for wrong or deliberate misreading because it says – indirect discrimination exists if neutral provision, criterion or practice appears... What appears to be a neutral provision, criterion or practice is not defined at all in any way, is subject to a very broad interpretation, even those who are not qualified to interpret such complicated and difficult provisions. Then he says, to skip the part – unless objectively, justifiably, legitimately, and the means to achieve that goal are appropriate and necessary. This definition, despite the fact that the legislator of justice is in line with European legislation, with directives, etc. simply, for Serbian legislation, this is a Serbian law, it's absolutely inappropriate, it's inappropriate for the way in which Serbia can function. This provision was not possible to fix otherwise by amendment. I believe that the former rule that existed in the law is far more quality, and then let the promoter find an appropriate and precise solution that will not provide an opportunity for a variety of interpretations of perhaps entirely identical situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6832	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6833	Thank you. Indirect discrimination not only is it necessary to be within the framework of the law because of the European directive, but it is very obvious and life in practice and you can find a brighter example when you have a neutral provision, and then suddenly you see that neutral provisions are applied through de facto discrimination, while de jure cannot be found. You have even harder examples in Serbia in I'll list you two. The first is, for example, that the Law on National Councils obliges local self-governments in public services, agencies, all levels of public authorities to have employed members of national minorities living in their territory at an appropriate percentage and then this does not happen or happens to employ a person who is not a member of a non-national minority for such a systematic job. What is very easy to prove is that even on such a provision that is affirmative, but in practice it is seen as discrimination is particularly the victims of Roma. Another example is the neutral provisions concerning labour rights and when you look at the content of the provision, you see that it is neutral, and when you look at, say, the situation in a corporation or among civil servants, according to the Law on Civil Service, not the Labour Act, then you see a clear but very clear indirect discrimination of some persons or groups of persons based on their personal properties. When isn't that the case? That's the other part that's making you sick. If you have objectively legitimate goals. One body of legislation in Serbia has these legitimate objectives, and they mean that if you want cruel injustice in equal treatment to the unequal ones, then you have to create a chance for the unequal, slightly different compared to most, to really, together with most of them, tend to cause discrimination, so that the ministry stays with the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6834	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Mr. Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6835	Thank you, Chairman. Frankly, I was surprised when you accepted the amendment to Article 7, and you did not accept the amendment to Article 5. First, in the first paragraph, there is one written error, where there is one missing letter “e” at the end of the sentence. The proposal says: "insultable" instead of "insulting environment". In attitude 2, I suggested that every verbal, non-verbal or physical unwanted behavior be defined a little more precisely. So my proposal is that full harassment within the meaning of this law be every conscious and deliberate verbal, non-verbal or physical unwanted behavior, etc., which it aims at, because if you say "who has a purpose" then whoever insulted verbally or non-verbally had to do it knowingly and deliberately. If he didn't do it consciously and deliberately, then he doesn't have a goal, then it's completely aimless. So this attitude that you're proposing really loses its meaning without this supplement – consciously and intentionally. In the end, it can lead to a person under the influence of this law, regardless of their age, whose personal qualities would not allow them to be prosecuted or prosecuted. So there must be an obvious conscious intention to achieve the goal, and the goal is to insult it, to sanction it. So there's no point if he doesn't have any awareness of what he wants and intends to do exactly what he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6836	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6837	We remain in the formulation that is in the bill for at least two reasons. If you think that people who deliberately discriminate against other people have no awareness of doing so, then we can open a dialogue on whether or not they have or why they discriminate against other people. Their intention can only be spoken of by including qualified and imagined as an act. Discrimination, verbal, non-verbal, full of harassment, happens because it's considered acceptable. The perpetrator of such discrimination may have consciousness, but there is no ethical relationship to not belittled, harassing the woman you work with, the woman on the street, the woman in the supermarket, the Roma you meet. You can't, you can't, it's forbidden. But I am grateful to you for including conscious action in this law, since we are most likely to have one serious social dialogue on the basis of your idea with the question - why are you ruthless towards different and weaker ones? There will also be MPs and academic community, university professors, professional associations, civil society, to discuss how it chooses to upset someone and that you like it, what kind of consciousness it is, to harass a person different from yourself, full, or whatever, verbally, non-verbal, and not to understand that it's inadmissible. So we're staying in the formulation, but I'm grateful for the idea of being very serious about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6838	Thank you. The National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6839	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Orlic, dear Madam Minister with his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if there are any respect for human and minority rights in Europe, it is certainly in our Serbia. Serbia has, on several occasions, shown in the current period and previous years that Serbia and the country and the rule of law and respect for all possible human and minority rights, and which, of course, only confirm amendments to the law and all these amendments that Serbia always has the hearing of changing for the better, but also, that it respects its tradition. At the beginning of my presentation today, I must point out that on today 1999, several bombs were dropped by NATO aggressors at the Dragisa Misovic Clinical Hospital Centre in Belgrade and that seven guards, three patients and one guard were killed. It's a terrible crime that happened here. Serbia defended itself, Serbia was bombed then. It slowly, not slowly, but certainly in the world realizes all the mistakes that have been made. On this occasion, I would like to take advantage of and congratulate the president of the friendly Czech Republic, who understood the mistake made by the Czech Republic, the mistake made by the NATO Pact. The Czech Republic seems to have joined NATO two or three weeks ahead of the shameful NATO bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but President Zeman took advantage of the opportunity to apologize to the Serbian people, Serbia and President Alexander Vukic, and also to remind that the Serbian people were always friendly towards our now brotherly, friendly Czech people in 1938 and in the postwar period, when Czechoslovakia was in no enviable situation when it was between the West and the East. The Serbian people were there. The Serbian people have always been with their friends. The Serbian people were with the Czech people. President Zeman realized that the Czech Republic has sinned against Serbia and thespian people, but the Serbian people, Serbia and all citizens of Serbia have always given their hand to all other nations living in the territory of Serbia and living in the surrounding countries. The whole story and this great action by the Serbian state, as far as vaccination is concerned, just shows that Serbia helps, Serbia loves, Serbia cherishes its neighbours. Serbia saves lives. In Serbia, fortunately, more and more people have been vaccinated. Serbia gives vaccines to both Croatia and Montenegro and Northern Macedonia and BiH. Serbia was built thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic in a modern, democratic state, which strengthens the economy more and more year-on-year, respecting human and minority rights, which has declared a fierce war on the mafia and where we see the first results in the fight against the mafia. But what concerns me as a MP for the MP, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and members of the SNS, and above all as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is one sick, scarred, mental campaign against the first man of the state of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and his family. From day to day, we see violent and shameful attacks and see and feel the rampage of the Gilas media. The target again is President's son Danilo Vukic, who is guilty only because he is the son of Serbia's president. Are his human rights being protected? He's back on target and Andrej Vukic, who's only guilty because he's the brother of the President of the Republic. It is again targeted by Mr. Angelko Vukic, who is guilty only because he is the father of Serbia's president. What is this role, as regards respect for human rights, but as for what we discussed today, both REM and all others in charge of controlling electronic media and all other media? Well, then we have, I couldn't even show it, and I can't even convince, one terrible cartoon in today's daily newspaper, which only speaks of the fact that individual media is providing support to criminal clans. Not to mention the presentation of an extraordinary professor of state law school in Belgrade, Professor Vladimir Vuletic. He hit the Vucic family again and the most horrifying insult of Danil Vukic. Do we have a situation in Serbia that the rights of the Vukic family are not respected? Not to mention the attacks on four-year-old Vukan, who is guilty just because he's the president's son, not to mention the shameful attacks on Milic Vukic. And that's what most media are talking about, that's what most different organizations are talking about, that I don't pick them up right now. Who's defending them? Let's start by taking a little care of the security of the Vukic family and all the families in Serbia. But now we're talking human rights violations of the Wolf family. Let's start by getting the authorities, the police, the prosecution, the BIA, to do what's up to them. This way, as a People's MP, I urge a public appeal to strengthen the security of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and his family. Why? Because it is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of our country. Alexander Vukic publicly declared once again a fierce war on the mafia. He also sent a message to Radoje Zvice and members of the coffee clan and all of Veljko Belivuk's associates, Miljkovic and other criminals, that he is willing to risk his life for Serbia in the fight against the mafia, that Serbia is not giving, and that he is giving his life. All of us MPs and you, members of the Serbian Government, and all those working in the competent state institutions should do what is up to them, to preserve Serbia, to preserve the security of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family, because without Alexander Vukic, we have no victory in the fight against the mafia, no vaccines, no economic growth, no respect for human and minority rights, no new results regarding both planning and building and all of what we have talked about today and the previous days and what my dear fellow Members of the people will talk about. Therefore, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished representatives of the Serbian Government, I call on all together to make a single appeal to strengthen the security of the President of the Republic, under two, to give full support to all competent authorities and prosecutors and the police and BIA in the fight against the mafia and, under three, to send one message to the world to respect human rights in the Republic of Serbia, to respect justice, but also to ask that both Serbia and the Serbian people and all citizens living in the territory of Serbia and our dear Bosniaks and our dear Hungarians and our dear Roma and Croats and Slovaks and Romanians and Bulgarians and all who live in our territory. And who's attacking Alexander Wolfie's politics? Those belonging to the yellow regime are being attacked by Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and their associates. I would like to remind myself that since 2012, the Republic of Serbia, led by Vukic, has done everything in addition to that of the defence of state and national interest, is doing everything for the Serbian people and all citizens of KIM and to preserve KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. I would just like to remind – March 17th, the terrible pogroms of the Serbian people and the burning of Serbian shrines, churches and monasteries, did not happen in 2014 but in 2004, and we know who was in power in 2004. They're accusing of happening in Montenegro. Montenegro separated from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro not in 2016, but in 2006, the same time as Tadic, Djilas and their co-workers and parliamentarians. Kosovo's unilateral independence has been declared with a weak response to Serbia, not in 2018 but in February 2008. Since 2012 and 2014, 2016 and all the years to come, and today, 2021, the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandra Vukic, leads a policy to preserve both state and national interests and preserve human and minority rights and the growth of the economy and to fight the mafia and strengthen health, construction, traffic, the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. And in the fight against the crown of the virus we show the best results in Europe and we are among the best in the world. Therefore, in the end, I can only say that Serbia is well written in the next period only if it is strong and strong and stable Serbia that advocates peace and stability in both Serbia and our neighbouring country, it can only be done by Serbia, strong and stable, led by Alexander Vukic, who leads our children to a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6840	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You've received a report from the Committee, as well as the government's opinion. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6841	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment to Article 6 is in accordance with Amendment 1, with the proposed erasure of the concept of segregation and therefore in Article 6, the introduction of the word "segregation" is proposed, so that this amendment is more technical, but I will use, since there have been some comments, I did not want to enter the replica, to say a few words. I must say that Serbia, as I know it, is one of the countries with a very long tradition of exceptional respect and human and minority rights. If they could be better, they could be better. And indeed, as a citizen of this country, it kind of insults me to compare with countries that are shorter in duration and exist than beer exists in Serbia. So, I really ask you, if there is already an example where these human rights are really above the essentials that are in Serbia, to tell us about it, not about the countries that came into existence by extermining and becoming a state a little less time than there is beer in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6842	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're talking discrimination here, a little bit of a mix of topics, but good. I support the Minister's position a little earlier, and I think it's very important that we all act together in this way, because if there were no discrimination between us, we wouldn't talk about her. Indeed, we need to look into the truth and tell what else is happening to us and what else is happening to us. Of course the situation is much better than 10, 15, 50 years ago, but we always have to move on and try to be better and better. How many Roma children come to our children on their birthdays? In my case, yes, Peter's coming to birthday parties and my daughter Angela's hanging out with him. The boy's a Roma and he's going to the ward with her. We wouldn't be talking so much about Roma rights if we didn't have the problems we have. When we talk about discrimination, we don't just talk about relationships, about the position of women, although how many people drive a car with a woman who's a mechanic and doesn't check whether she's a good mechanic or not, but she's thinking about whether or not she's a woman, so does she drive that car to a mechanic? I was just looking at the example of our public service about a woman who has a mechanical shop and about how she has a relationship and what conversations are conducted with her, for example. I'm going to give you an example, and I'm going to talk on purpose about a country that exists much shorter than Serbia, but a lot of things about human rights and the fight against discrimination have started out of that country, as the minister set the example. It's about the United States. People often become discriminated against because of sickness, disability, and also various types of diseases, such as infectious diseases, but there is a certain way of transferring this disease. 35-40 years ago, there was AIDS disease in the world and it caused panic all over the world. There have turned out to be certain ways in which it can be transmitted, but it is not often important either the lifestyle, but it has happened and it is happening today that some people are infected with this severe, still incurable disease, because they receive blood in a health care facility and infect them with any blood or needle. It's a rarer case, but 30 years ago it was a case. And then we had cases of someone losing a job because of it, getting fired, even though they can't pass the disease on to their workmates. Federal courts in the U.S. then passed the law, made judgments in favour of people who lost their jobs because they were infected with AIDS, but you know what it said in those judgments? And then for the first time, it seems to me, perhaps I'm wrong, the minister may know better, the term that social death has fallen much harder to these people than to expect physical death, biologically due to disease. You're still alive, you're still working, and you're all shut down by society and no one's communicating with you. It's discrimination. Social death -- when you're alone because you're different from most people and there's nothing you can do or you can react. That is why these laws are very important and because of this social death, the rulings in that country, which is far younger than Serbia, were the first such type and protected the people who were discriminated against so they could not lose their jobs. That's why I'm saying we need to pass laws like this. There are things we still have to change. I've already talked to the Minister about whether or not it can be applied, we'll see, but this is the kind of thing we have to... I'm asking all my colleagues to think about it. So when we isolate one person for something, it's called social death and it falls to a living man much harder than the moment he goes to God for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6844	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Equal Gender accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6845	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two discussions have drawn special attention to me today when we talk about such an important topic as discrimination in our society and whether there is one. These are discussions between distinguished colleagues Shormaz and his colleagues, Uglješko Mrdić. Both discussions are so full of truth that no normal can deny any of the things spoken, just to express deep concern. I come from the Belgrade municipality of Old Town, where it is known that in an envious number once lived members of Roma nationality and I can talk a lot about it. We can talk a lot from the time of the 1990s about how at that time, one part, again, I say, a small part of our society, has been discriminatoryly treated by people who are different from most, but when someone is discriminated against, it leaves a strong, bitter impression in the public. It happened, we had different friends, one was Titian, today in Germany for the sake of another Bekim, it's getting on here, doing some heavy physical work, their families, their children, when they were going to enroll in kindergartens, they looked at them with the snideness to be less valuable than some other kids, that they were less important, so if they could not go to this central kindergarten, if we could push them out somewhere to stay. Well, their families spoke to us later, so I experienced it by communicating with a number of citizens, in the previous years to most of their community where there were still a lot of members of Roma nationality, to visit a lot of families, hundreds of families like that, and to hear a lot of problems they face. It is true that many problems have been solved, laws passed, laws passed, but laws must be applied. It's not enough for us to press the key, to declare something without having a key change in our mind. The main change in society, the main change in people, is the change in consciousness, the change in thinking. These are the changes I personally advocated in politics since the beginning of my career, until today, and so I think I'm doing more. To change ourselves first, to change our view of people around us, to those who have specific needs, people who are other nationalities, who speak other languages, other religions, that differ in the color of our skins, that we don't put ourselves just because of these personal differences that they're not guilty of. What makes us better? Because we're brighter ways, those darker ways, that we're more written, are we better-quality people because we look different or we talk differently than anyone else? I don't think so. There are among the Roma, especially I stress among the Roma, because I've met a lot of such families, specifically in Titian's family, his sister has graduated from medical school, she's a doctor. Will someone because he doesn't like Roma to refuse to treat her or refuse to hire her, and she is employed, working, but not in Serbia, because she is a member of Roma nationality? He won't. He will not and should not refuse, and it is a disgrace to every society, not only the Serb, when it is found in front of such a dilemma whether it should even consider whether discrimination is allowed or not, to discuss it at all, but we must discuss it as long as it is there, we must discuss it. We have to learn ourselves, but it's kind of late for us, we've gone into some years, so it's harder to change habits, but to learn on these negative examples from the past, to teach our children how to behave further so that these discrimination is less, and I say it's incomparable than it was 10, 15, 20 years ago, because this society has changed a lot in the meantime. We have met the world, we have begun to travel to open ourselves, to communicate with Europe, to be part of that world, as we have been, and to return to it and to bring the world to Serbia and to show our qualities to the world, but to receive that world what it has changed. Not to say whether there was discrimination in America 100 or 200 years ago, it was a lot, but America today is a lot different than it was. Was it in Europe? It was. Was there slavery around the world? Well, it was, but it's not a topic anymore. The world has changed so much in 100 or 200 years that Serbia needs to see what is good in that world to apply to itself and that what is good with us, and they say that we are one of the perhaps people who least discriminates against anyone since we are the Serbian people. It's not because I'm a member of his, so I love mine most, which is normal, but because I really mean it. Whoever comes from Europe or from all parts of the world to Serbia, that I do not now list individually, rarely as well as rarely when you can hear that some great inconvenience has been experienced by the Serbs. Rarely. But it happens that as Serbs, so many times in the past 100 or 200 years, we have been treated in the worst possible way, not discriminated, but treated. They treated us as members of the lower race, as less worthy, as those to be eliminated, expelled, killed, baptized, baptized, baptized, whatever. They killed us hundreds of thousands, represented us as a plague, and we're not like that. We've given the world so many scientists, so many athletes, so many great writers, weave great poets, so great people who have left an indelible mark in world culture, history and become part of this world's cultural heritage, historical heritage, that we deserve to meet in that place that belongs to us as a people. We can only maintain that place by taking care of ourselves and how we treat others. They say, "Look at yourself first, then criticize the other." That's what we always do. Does each of us ever make a single mistake? Do it, but it's terrible if we don't want to change ourselves, if we think and then when we're aware of our mistakes that we're so in love with ourselves that we should never change anything about ourselves, then that nation, that people, they don't have a future. This nation has shown many times in its history that it is ready to change for the better, that it is ready to learn, work on itself, and so every day and work in this National Assembly, we are making new laws for this people and this country to bring about well in perspective. Headed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we started these strong reforms and changes in 2012 and 2014 when President Vukic then became prime minister. We have then decided to put an end to some things that were bad before and to go a completely new way forward, to really become rights, respected, stable, responsible, legal state, a European country that deserves respect, not someone who formally advocates the EU, and is essentially committed only to crime, corruption and tycounisation of Serbia. No, I don't. It's not a chance when you're in power to rob, it's a chance to change your own country. The president once said it nicely, but the fool doesn't change. Only a fool and a stupid man don't want to change themselves when they see it going badly and that's where the better is in this country. We've changed. Serbia today is a country which, I would say, may be among the most stable countries in Europe, in many ways, for example, many in Europe and when we talk about discrimination. Many can also learn from Serbia, first of all in how one country can change quickly, one society, how one society when it achieves its own consensus within itself can change and become better and serve as an example to the whole of Europe, whether we are a formal EU member or not, whether we are whether we are or not, and my wish is to be honest, always have been and believe that we will be, but Serbia must be and be a country in which human and minority rights will be respected, but let's respect as colleague Uglesa Mrdić said and when it comes to our children, whether our children are children, whether they are children, now I say a respected minister, yours because you were a member of some other organisation or children of the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, no one should be discriminate in Serbia, especially because of what his parents are dealing with or the public function they perform. Today, in the worst possible way they are discriminated against by the mafia, tycoon and criminals and their media partners, the children are being discriminated against by the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. They're not allowed the right to be children. They are not given the right to spend their childhood and youth peacefully, but rather to call on their killings, rapes, exiles, hangings, frustrations, I don't know what to do. How did they turn to little Vulcan's social networks? They said pastures. So who raised their voice from all kinds of associations, all these people, I call them a conscience organization? You can't call a child that, you can't threaten Daniel's death, he's a child, you can't call a baby, she's a girl. You can't talk like that. They're not the subject of any political action. We have to protect these kids today. Parents, are parents responsible for their child being president of the Republic, and what is this country doing so much better than it has been for the past 20, 30, 50 years? That's what they have to answer for, what they've created and raised a decent son, a statesman who raised this country after 100 years? After 100 years at the head of Serbia, you have a Serb who leads this country in the right direction that this country should go. And that's why his parents need to get loaded in the worst way possible? No, I don't. We have to respect everyone's parents, everyone's children, and no one can be the object of anyone's life. I call on this time and competent institutions, protect even stronger and even better the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. Protect him from the tycoon, from the mob, from the criminals. Without Alexander Vukic at the head of the Republic of Serbia, there is no progress in this country, no higher wages, no safer future for all our children. Without him at Serbia's helm, Serbia slips into the abyss and into chaos. I am convinced that it will not be possible for those who are looking forward to it in Serbia and I am confident that this country will continue courageously and vigorously to deal with all those who want to discriminate against anyone, especially the mafia, criminals and tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6846	Thank you. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Sanja Jefic Brankovic. I'm sorry, first Minister Comic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6847	Thank you. Just for a little while. I thank the members of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the President of the Committee, because this amendment is essentially from the opinion of the Council of Europe and the recommendations made by Ekri for the calendar of the draft, so the draft legislation has not been able to do so ourselves, but that is why the MPs are here to make amends and I really thank you for today's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6848	Thank you. Mrs. Jefic Brankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6849	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, both the draft laws we are discussing today and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality have one common objective, which is to improve human rights in the Republic of Serbia and the principle debate on the proposals of these laws was extremely good and I expect that this debate in particular today will be truly constructive and will lead to the improvement of the text of one and the other law itself. As you mentioned, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights has given the opinion that the Assembly should accept this amendment and I think it is good, in particular by respecting the fact that this is the way in which the coordination with individual international organisations is carried out, such as the European Commission against racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe, which you mentioned earlier. Both draft laws pay particular attention to the introduction of specific measures and their objective is to achieve full equality where this inequality is essential and exists, i.e. in those categories that are in an unequal position. In that sense, Article 7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination provides for the amendment of an existing Article 14 of this Act, which refers to the abovementioned measures. In short, I would keep myself on encouraging measures and their importance in the sense that they are very important at the moment in which we are present, i.e. in the present situation, and I find them absolutely necessary when it comes to particularly sensitive groups, especially in the conditions in which Serbia is present today when you have the freedom to express your opinion in the broadest possible way and for this very reason, the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination should be interpreted and observed from more angles so that all aspects of discrimination and positive and negative can be seen in a valid manner and correct existing differences. However, in accordance with the international framework, these measures must also have a purpose, i.e. they must last until the need for them is realistic. It is therefore important to limit their duration only until equality is achieved because achieving equality has become an essential need for its existence and such a solution is foreseen by standards, as I said. We thus show our openness and willingness to follow their step. Therefore, it is not difficult to recognise the insistence, i.e. the intention to adopt, by amending and supplementing the law through this amendment and the provisions and concepts, as well as the definitions of compliance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the views that this court has taken, and in relation to the application of Article 14 of the Convention. I think we're going in the right direction and I'm glad you recognized the meaning of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6850	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You've received a report from the Committee, as well as the government's opinion. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6851	I thank the chairman. The proposed amendment said that the name above Article 20 is changed and reads – discrimination based on gender, gender and gender identity and then goes on to speak only about the principle of gender equality. It is replaced — the principle of gender equality in words — the principle of gender equality. I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly knows only gender discrimination. Birth discrimination depending on who interprets the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia may be in some broader scope. This change, first of all, you are contradictory of this proposal because you say – the name above the member is called – discrimination based on gender, gender and gender identity, and then you say – the principle of gender equality. My proposal is to unite this and say – the principle of gender and gender equality because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly knows full equality without intent and desire to enter into these broad interpretations of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, and such an amendment to the proposed Article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6852	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6853	Thank you. The observation and reasoning that gender is not a constitutional category, so in this sense this law cannot even be a topic of work in the Assembly is reckless because beer is not a constitutional category either, so you have the Beer Act. It's not even a detective constitutional category, so you have a law on detective activity and a series of other laws. In this sense, our misunderstanding with many who embraced the argument of the stork does not exist in the Constitution, so it cannot be law, and the birth identity does not exist in the Constitution, is an argument that is very easy to interpret. Paul's a personal trait. You can't choose gender. It's your personal property. You have people who have a personal property that no matter what other people think they're a certain half they don't know it themselves and such people live around us, Helena Vukovic is one of them. We've changed things at the Department of State and Local Self-Government for her, and before that, he's living normally. It doesn't matter how unhappy people are because they don't have a law to define their rights, it's important that we understand that any personal property should not be the basis for treating these people with prejudice, disdain or discrimination. Rod's a social category. So society defines what is desirable for a male, what is desirable for a female, and if I, in the definition of society of my generation, choose to behave differently, no one has the right to discriminate on me. It's the right of my identity. It's our misunderstanding. This law, as well as the Law on Gender Equality, is deeply founded in our Constitution and that is a lot of good news, because our Constitution is clearly defined as a human legal act in the opening members. A member who defines equal opportunities has also been established as an act requiring society to fight discrimination. Are we going to change the Constitution so that everything is stated? I don't know. We are facing changes in the Constitution of another species in the area of justice. Will the Assembly decide yet? It's up to you, it's not on me. But, well, everyone who thinks it's a good argument, that the word stork doesn't exist in the Constitution, is not. It's easy to explain that it's creating a cover-up of misogyny and concealing the will to discriminate, but rather unskilled. But together we'll get through it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6854	Right on the line, George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6855	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I didn't say this couldn't be debated with the argument that you've put in the Constitution for me now, jargonically said, that I spoke in the interpretation of this amendment. If you were thinking about someone else talking about it, then you should have said it a little more clearly. So I'm here very clearly and precisely saying that you're changing the name above a member of the law and you say, discrimination based on gender, gender and gender identity, and then you say, instead of the principle of gender equality, the principle of gender equality. I explicitly told you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia knows only half the equality and that I do not want to enter any interpretation analysis, whether gender equality knows or not. You may have moved at this point, though, because we're going to talk about it at some other law, but just for the sake of the public to know. If you're thinking of others out there on this amendment, I think I've been very clear and very precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6856	Thank you. By amendment, Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6857	Thank you. To Article 9. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, as we have heard, has been tabled an amendment with the proposal to amend the existing Article 20 in paragraph 1 but I will refer to paragraph 2. I'll explain for what reason. Item 2 of the existing Article 20 says – it is forbidden to deny the rights or public or hidden recognition of benefits from gender, gender and birth identity, or because of a gender change, or to adapt half the birth identity, as well as because of pregnancy, maternity leave, absence for the care of a child or a special child. Why do I say that? The position of Article 20 of the existing law in the part relating to the concept of pregnancy gives us room to imagine whether we may well have considered all possible situations that may arise in this context, which we may not have paid attention to. The law does not cover, in essence it is not possible to cover all the situations in life that can occur in the application of the law itself, but specifically when it comes to this, I would like to mention that it is not a rare case for women to experience discrimination very often because they have a risky pregnancy, that is, a pregnancy that requires calming and sickening, and only defining the concept of pregnancy in this way can leave room for discrimination, because it is not clearly defined, so there is room for different interpretations, therefore and application. That's why I don't think this particular idea is clear enough and it can happen that it doesn't cover and suffer for the maintenance of a pregnancy that I just talked about or the illness that women often take to work in a situation where they have to take care of their sick preschool kid, let's just say, and that is a really common case. In that sense, there may have been room to consider this concept and to define Article 20 of this Law a little clearer and more precisely. Practice also shows that women who are absent from work are very common discrimination because of childcare and is not unknown that women with young children and are harder to progress at work and are less likely to get promotions. I believe that every woman with that, and if not in her own case, faced some such case in her environment. This is undoubtedly a form of motherhood protection, and I ask you to consider this option when some subsequent change of this law is made, as this further encourages the birthright that is important to us, but also encourage women to find balance between motherhood and their business careers at the same time. And how important it is to encourage them to take that step in finding a balance between these two vital life decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6858	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6859	Thank you. I fully understand both the observation and the understanding of life's content. We've been thinking about it, so one part of what you're referring to in your presentation in the Law on Gender Equality, and the other part of the Labour Act, the Law on Employment, the Law on Social Protection, and I hope to other accompanying laws for which the Law on Gender Equality, which we will debate in particular after this, will give binding and referring provisions. It is good that you mentioned this, especially because of the sentence that a woman should be allowed to comply with her family's private obligations and her professional obligations. Together with JMV and along with the Trustee of Equality, we have launched another kind of research and we ask only men about it. So you ask an employee man as you coordinate, how you harmonize your private, family obligations and professional, business, whatever you do, it doesn't matter. The best picture of that research is that most men don't understand the question. The law on gender equality also has provisions that point to changes in behaviour in that part, and it already happens in Serbia, regardless of whether you have research to be pregnant or not, to maintain pregnancy, to be employed, to be discriminated against, to have her family's obligations remain, and it lasts several hours longer than it has been for a man, and that's a common life, we share. We share everything, and then we should share it. Thank you, we will be very careful with what are the reference provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in order to remove every dilemma of what it means to create a friendly environment for the birth of children. It's the most important thing for someone who wants to have a baby, to feel that others care about it, and that child will be welcomed in a friendly environment. It's much more than the role of money or anything, that you have some kind of friendly environment system of service through public opinion that welcomes both you and your family and the child you're giving birth to.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6860	Thank you. According to the amendment, Natasa Mihailovic Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6861	I thank the chairman. Thank you, and Minister Comic, for the explanation. There is another interesting aspect of this same article 9. Therefore, paragraph 2 prohibits the denial of rights or public or hidden recognition of benefits in relation to gender, i.e. gender and birth identity, or because of the gender change, or the adjustment of half-born identity, as well as because of pregnancy, maternity leave, absence for the care of a child or special care of a child. What is an interesting aspect, and it also points to some caution in what will be a sublegal act and understanding of the general public of that member, refers to the government's policy on the rise in birth and can be done at first sight to ensure that the measure that prohibits positive discrimination would be in direct contrast with what is the government's intensity to just encourage positive discrimination with its measures to increase the birth rate which is already, as we know, longer in a terrible and drastic decline, so I would just like to draw attention to that aspect and that if you can explain further why it is not or to what extent it is contrary to the government policy and what you will do and how you will warn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6862	Thank you. The word and has Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6863	It's not the opposite, because we have special measures that are not considered defined in this article, but your exposure is crucial for, hopefully, a broad debate in the National Assembly, which is how to work together to create a friendly environment for the birth of children. For a very long time, there was one error in our country because we were a poor country, so there are no children. I fought long battles, pointing at the Sub-Saharan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, sometimes even Albania, and they moved, see poor, there's no GDP, there's nothing, children are born. Look at the economically developed countries, children are not born. Of course money is important, but you won't have a baby because the wheelchair is cheap. To feel, how can I tell you, the safety that this child will grow in a good atmosphere is important that we all show a friendly face to every young woman and man who wants to have children. That it means that urbanists work in settlements and cities, that cities, that settlements are friendly to families with children, that we have the financial measures that Serbia has, that we fix them where they are wrong, but the most important thing is to create a dialogue on how many we will be in 2030. In the Sustainable Development Strategy, which we intend to inter-sectorally work in an open group, how much do we think it can be us? The same as now? Seven million, nine million, what? So, if we agree on some number of people who want to live in Serbia to go back and say that it would happen in 2029 then this should be done, in 2028 this, in 2027 this, etc. In this respect, special measures are defined if there is a will for detail, the MPs are more than welcome to dialogue on sustainable development, because the will to give birth implies that the atmosphere in society is positive. If you're not a society where women have no right and no one asks them if they want to give birth, like any relapse to explain to women that they have to listen and that when they're told to give birth then, they'll simply create much more resistance to having children than is desirable. The 21st century families will not be like families of the 20th or 19th century, but it is important that the family be and that, in this law, by banning discrimination, we provide a more pleasant environment for families who do not yet have children. That's the only answer I have. So we've taken care of it, and thank you, both Members of the People's Parliaments have struck and I hope future co-operation in defining what will be special measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6864	By amendment, Natasa Mihailovic Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6865	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. There is no doubt that both the law we are discussing will certainly lead and strengthen the rule of law of both the institutions and human rights in general and the SDPS and the SDPS parliamentary group are looking forward to new dialogues and topics that you will open, such as the theme of sustainable development, because, as we know, there is no sustainable development without peace, nor consensus on what will be the priorities of society in some future period and certainly thank you in advance for the call and we look forward to future co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6866	Thank you. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality submitted an amendment to Article 15. At the meeting of the Committee, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 16th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You've received reports from the Committee, as well as from the government. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6867	Thank you, Chairman. My intervention regarding Article 16, concerns one absolute illogicality and the opposite of all legal and logical thinking. In the latter case, the legislator proposes to add, at the end of Article 35, a sentence that reads – an association or organisation dealing with the protection of human rights can appeal on behalf of a group of persons whose right has been violated and without the consent of the individuals who make up that group if the infringement refers to an undetermined number of persons of the social group that connects a personal property referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act. In the following position, the Proposer says - paragraph 4 is changed and reads - on behalf of and with the consent of the person whose right to appeal is injured may be subject to inspection in accordance with the law governing the area of inspection supervision. There is no legal logic that the association or organisation can do something that the state authority cannot. Either it had to be the same archaic, that there was a need for consent, which is completely logical to associations and organizations, as well as to inspection, or then the inspection doesn't need consent. This kind of contradiction is inadmissible and I just have to say it opens up space with serious doubts that someone wants to leave the government or part of the government to NGOs before the state authorities can do this job for which they are professional and trained at least in the same way that they want to provide it to the NGO. For that reason, and this amendment reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6868	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6869	The law on free legal aid is one of the basics, and the other is a particularly defined competence for the role of the Commissioner for Equality and Civil Society. This is one of the new provisions that you respect life. There are groups of discriminated persons in Serbia who will not stand alone and who will live in discrimination and disaster, because only the victim says no and then violence ceases. Since they have fear, uncertainty, Stigmu, whatever the cause of discrimination is, then we say – if you clearly recognize and prove that a group of faces is discriminated against, then you can make it a case. This will help not only those who are discriminated against and victims of discrimination, but also many others that you do not know are discriminated against. It's about a provision that is deep and goodness and justice, and it even has this beautiful dimension to allow it to never be applied. This means that those who choose discrimination and violence against some groups will stop choosing it themselves. You know, to be discriminatory and to be discriminated against, it's free will, it's chosen, you don't have to, as hate is chosen. Well, then, society is bound to come up with members of laws that tell people who choose like that – no, it's no good. Well, if the victim of any personal trait over which discrimination is conducted does not personally step up at the Trustee for Equality, then we say, "Here you go, do something good for those persons, or for that group." That was the basis, and we're staying with the decree. We think that many good things will do, on the contrary, and there is no speech on the withdrawal of jurisdiction of any state authority, on the contrary, there may be a partner relationship in the partnership work, but there are clear obligations on the professional application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6870	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You've received reports from the board, as well as the government's opinion. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6871	Since I personally do not believe in repression, but in dialogue, I was really surprised by this proposal that the Ministry of Dialogue was defined as a senseless withdrawal of fines that have no purpose whatsoever, when it comes to neither repression nor prevention. I believe that dialogue and some other methods can achieve much more than the penalties that are allegedly threatened to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6872	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6873	The amount of criminal penalties is to comply with the Law on Infringements, which this Assembly adopted in 2013. Experience shows that anything that is not clearly defined can be fairly well repudiated by proper fines and by a personal perpetrator or by someone who seeks or directly discriminates against indirect discrimination. I would like the same as you if none of these penalties were charged, because that would mean that none of the acts forbidden by this law were done, but given that we are realistic and that we know life in Serbia I only hope that the amounts that are now under the Law of Infractions there, perhaps, some who choose to discriminate against it and that would be just as good to begin with. By the way, I agree with you on the repression. I don't think repression is like the spirit of a society to anything good. I deeply believe in dialogue, believe in prevention, believe in the ability of people who are different from each other to talk about the subject, the fact, the state of things in society. I deeply believe that, and I think there are enough people here who also believe in it, we probably wouldn't have talked about it like this if it wasn't the case, but until we get evolutionaryly to understand that dialogue is the basic tool of democracy, that we understand that others are successful from Scandinavia, Germany to Spain, because they use dialogue as a basic means of democracy, and that's the only thing that separates us from successful EU members, so far we'll walk a little bit and have such provisions that mean that whoever chooses to discriminate can't explain otherwise than take 50,000, 100,000, 100,000, 500,000, anyway, as the Law of Infractions says.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6874	National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6875	Thank you. I just want to thank Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as it is a matter of provisions that we have had major dialogues and debates both with the Ministry of Justice and with our ministry's associates, it has indeed been a pleasure to have a national MP who has solved our dilemmas and made the provisions of the law so that it will be applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6876	Thank you. Since we've completed our search of all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6877	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski, Snezana Paunovic and Sandra Christmas on the bill. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, written in writing, withdrew the amendments to the name above Article 3, the name above Article 5, the name above Article 8, the name above Article III, the name above Article 14, the name above Article 19, the name above Article 35, the name section 4, the name section 5, the name section 6, the name section 8, the name section 9, the name section 10, the name section 11, the name section 13, the name section 14, the name of Chapter VII, the name above Article 62, the name above Article 63, the name above Article 64, the name of Chapter VIII, the name above Article 65 and the name above Article 66. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6878	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law on Gender Equality, or the Proposal for this Law, puts out of effect an extremely good Law on Full Equality and calls into question all the achievements that this law has made possible so far. If there were reasons and the need to advance certain provisions of this law – yes, but to take two steps back instead of steps forward, I really don't think there was a need. Since I have no prejudice, I am not sure about the knowledge, but regardless of the settings that have started to apply very often, and that who is against the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Discrimination or against certain positions in the Law on Gender Equality that someone who wants discrimination or supports gender equality simply cannot agree. I may not have enough knowledge, but I have had enough experience to consult with people who are professors of constitutional law, with judges, with colleagues of lawyers, with those who do scientific work, with some people who work very actively in the NGO sector and I must say that I really don't understand what has changed since 2015 and 2017. As far as I am aware, in 2015 it gave up this name of the law, because the government's Secretariat for legislation pointed out to the textist or possibly to the legislator that the Constitution does not know the category of gender equality. As far as I know, the Constitution hasn't changed. What's changed, maybe we'll hear it. Indeed, in this humble opinion, I think that in general such a law is directly threatened by the Constitution really and clearly guaranteed rights, the right to freedom of speech, opinions, expressions and scientific work. By adding: "full and gender equality", we place this law within the framework of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6879	The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6880	Thank you. Two remarks only. The first is that many of us feel that we have no prejudice. There was an exhibition in Geneva, as it is called, a conceptual or already modern exhibition, and on the last floor there was a wall, a door on it, and it said: “Only you, who have no prejudice, come in here. ” Everyone who came here tried, and the door was drawn on the wall. You can't just function without prejudice, and it's not bad or good, so we humans function, in stereotypes, in short images, so we think, as we think through cognitive dissonance, trying to keep two conflicting thoughts in our heads at the same time. That's not the law. The law does not deal with the removal of prejudice from our minds, from our habits, from what they may have taught us or have taught us ourselves in growing up. The law deals with a ban on prejudice-based behavior. This is also the case with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. The second observation concerns the Law on Gender Equality in 2015 and 2016 and the fact that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic took lionic steps to establish the coordination body, that the coordination body really has a plan and a programme of work for both women and men. The fact is also that the new Ministry Law passed the law to the Ministry of Labour, Combat, Social Affairs and the rights of fighters. The law was returned from the Assembly because it came across huge resistance from the MPs of all the Women's Parliamentary Network, civil society, all people who understand themselves in the fight for the roles of women and men, so neither is missing. He entered the Assembly as a law on human rights for women and men. Since I was both a participant and a witness to the whole process, nothing from this process has anything to do with the Constitution, nor has it ever had anything to do with personal decisions and the use of positions of various people. That's what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying, and I'm gonna do it every time. The same observation concerns individuals who bear, with the right, the titles of academic scholars of constitutional law, professor of constitutional law, who also express their view of unconstitution, without considering how credible with their functions remain after they claim that something is unconstitutional just because it is convenient to translate into language of unconstitution what their own prejudices are. It's all normal and everything is human and everything is happening and it's going to happen with other laws. What's the reason we don't accept your amendment is that you're looking for a biological and social category at the same level. Paul is a biological category, you don't choose sex, it happens so you're born a boy or a girl. The stork is a social category and is variable and changes depending on which ideas society is run. Serbia, I hope and deeply believe, is driven by democratic ideas, driven by a culture of human rights, led almost by the courage to face what, however little, is not well in the gender roles of men and women, and that is why the government has adopted this law, and that is why we are in the debate accepting amendments and having a debate. It might be good to organize a public hearing in the congregation, and we are willing to come and participate in the application of the Law on Gender Equality and on any misunderstandings that may produce definitions of various provisions in many people. This law, as the Law on Gender Equality, will be your will to vote for or against or abstain.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6881	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to the 1st amendment. You have also received the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6882	Thank you, Mr. President. Public hearings were meant to be organised both in parliament and a little longer, before this law arrived in the Assembly and entering the assembly procedure. The application of this law will be decided by someone else. As for amendments to Article 1 as well as many amendments to this law, I will try not to explain them more specifically. So all the amendments I miss to explain do the same thing. In the text of the law next to gender equality, they also mention gender equality. No matter what you're talking about, gender equality cannot be assumed by full equality. When the Constitution changes, I can agree with you however you want. Or a law should have been passed that would only regulate the issue of gender equality. That might be far more effective. About my hunch why it didn't happen, a little later. In this article, too, I am asking and proposing and insisting that the equality of men and women finally be established, to establish the existence and confirm the existence of violence against both women and men. In this Article 1, as I have suggested to change it, wherever there is a record of whether or not it wants to warn violence against women, my proposal is to insist on doing so in relation to men. We can't compare evil with whether it's big or small. He has, so there is only one case of violence against men, this ministry has been obliged to take this into account in an appropriate manner and to adequately foresee and propose it in this Assembly as the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6883	Thank you. Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6884	Public hearings in the Rules of Procedure are designed to analyse the effects of law enforcement. What you're talking about is a public debate on the proposal, if it's Members of Parliament or a public debate on a draft that MPs by nature cannot attend. Because the MP first came into contact with the act comes to the bill. Thank you for reminding me. The bill that is before you may be the first, where we have called on the MPs and MPs at a very early stage of the predicate to participate in the debate. So we will work for any law that we do, because no one forbids us, and the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly only defines when an MP is obliged to debate the bill's proposal, on the Committee in the debate on solutions, and the public hearings are defined by submitting the proposal to the committee in charge, and you say what is the subject of public listening. I have mentioned to you the public hearing, since I expect anyone, any committee, of course, to be the first to include the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, but also the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution and legislability. So anyone can demand a public hearing about the application of any member of the law, so an analysis of the effects of law enforcement in the months ahead. It's the idea of public listening. It's not the order, it's a serious idea. We will certainly have social dialogues on how law enforcement goes, where obstacles are, where maybe it should go easier and not go. So much for public listening. It would be very good to have them in the National Assembly. The second observation is, I mean a banal misunderstanding between us, but deep. The word gender contains both the word woman and the word man, because it's a birthplace, one or the other half. When we talk about gender-based violence, we say to women, because you record this violence and because it is so that some researchers rightly speak about femicidal but gender-based violence and how it is toward men. If you look at the dark statistics of Serbia, about 30 women are killed on average. In domestic violence only because they're women, but also about 10 men every year. Whether it's fathers, husbands, sons, brothers, whether it's a murder committed by a woman who was a victim of violence, each of these fates is tragic and special in her own way, but it's life. If we want to eliminate and crown violence against women who only happens because she's a woman, there's nothing else we need, then that same kind of violence can't happen because she's a man. This law should make it clear to everyone in Serbia that violence cannot be earned. No one can deserve to be beaten up. In our culture, there is also an excuse, if two men and one man killed the other, this one challenged him, if the woman had also, or had already provoked him. Well, he had to get revenge. There's no way violence can be earned. You choose violence, go ahead. And whether you kill someone or hurt someone, you choose it freely. After that in court, it goes to determine whether or not you were quantifiable, whether it was premeditated, how you would qualify for this crime, but gender-based violence, domestic violence is tragic cases that arise in our families just because it's a woman or it's a man. I do not believe that you and I do not really understand each other, but also because of the public, with a renewed appreciation for opening up a dialogue on a subject that interests many others, which you very well define, this will be a good reason to talk about both the reasons for violence and perhaps some social culture that we will start to despise violence, rather than despise people who fight for human rights. That would be a good change for society.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6885	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. It's Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6886	I thank you, dear Vice President, Mr. Orlic, above all I am grateful that you have accepted this syntagma as something that will become a hope and part of the narrative of the future address, whenever we talk about this topic and whenever we use it, when we want to say that some violence is happening to women, that we do so properly, in every way possible, and in that language that we insist on and with this bill. In my explanation, I have stated that the proposed changes exclude the possibility of putting a woman in a position of subjugation and in a language sense. In fact, the predicated fall structure – over women, suggests the subordinate position of a woman as an entity over which an action is performed, and puts women at the level of language in a position of impotence, which is contrary to the native sensitive language, which would be the starting point for achieving gender equality. And since this may be a non-essential category to you, I must tell you that this amendment has not been submitted by Sandra Christmas but has been submitted by the Union of SNS women who have been struggling with this topic for years, fighting to protect women, fighting to give them equal rights, fighting to indicate that an economically strong woman, economically, but above all a safe woman in her family in her home can be the basis of a stable state. And above all, when you respected this amendment of mine, I know that it may not seem to have brought some kind of exaggeration, but believe me, since from the SNS, the Union of women who are committed to this topic, above all, by preventing violence against women, has long advocated that this syntagma and objectivity of women in every address that makes it seem to humiliate my wife, and we did it ourselves when we talked about it, until we really showed and raised awareness of others on this subject. I thank you for that, because this is one result of working together, and it was not easy to come to this, first of all they had to acquire certain conditions, that it seemed to me that the mood in society was made, or that it was appropriate for us today to incentivise the dialogue that you did in your ministry and not only on this topic, but on many others, and in this way it seems to me that we created a society in which it is possible to talk about everything, where there is no taboo topic, of course not where they can't be. And where in this way we opened the space really defacto and dejour, to create a society without prejudice with equal opportunities for all. And as I said a moment ago, this may be just a small change, but I also ask you fellow Members of the people to respect this change and that in the future, when you talk about violence against a woman and in that sentence you say, you treat her with dignity, or you say it to women, because in no way can a woman be the object of suffering in any way, especially violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6887	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6888	She's grateful for the amendment, and she's accepted it, and it's a good thing it's accepted, because language is a miracle. It would be likely that we took care of ourselves, but that's why there are MPs, to fix all the work in the executive government, it just changes the eye because you and I agree that language is a miracle. And that if we try to understand that we stop talking -- violence against a woman, violence against an old man, violence against children, violence against animals, we'll see that we're actually going to talk about changing power in society. Because we will stop accepting that every power is power over someone or something and that every power must be power for something, for someone. The law we debate together today should result in power, which is for changing the social roles of men and women, but to make it better for both men and women. Hence, the change of that word, however unimportant it sounds, is crucial to include it in the speech and thus support the ideas of the MPs and the change of nature of power in society. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6889	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. You received a report from the Committee as well as the government's opinion. On Article 3 and the name above the amendments with the correction was filed by MP Gjorge Komlenski. You received a report from the Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. No one wants a word. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6890	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear colleagues, distinguished Minister Comic with associates, respected citizens and citizens, first of all thank you for your understanding and for the fact that you have accepted this amendment and all the next ones we will talk about, and my goal was nothing more than what I did in my presentation when we talked to you in principle, which is that we make this law as good as possible, and that I am more applicable to this society, which certainly cannot recognize the moment in which it is necessary in this way to regulate what should have been an unimpeached right. In that sense, we had some discussions that weren't up to the end in the part of the tide, which was about the debate in principle, we understood why it was important to pass one law of this type, gender equality, precisely defined category, I won't repeat myself, I've said it all. We need to understand that gender equality is the fluids of modern society and that it is indeed in the literal sense of those words that means respect for rights and freedom, absolutely all people, regardless of biological or social specifics. This law transposes some of the EU's legal assets, and it is good that they do. My amendments are well-based, first of all, on what the Council of Europe thought, because I think that if we are resolved, and we are, to become a member of the EU, then the technical objections contained by my amendments are, above all, going in this direction, to adapt our own legislation to EU legislation as much as possible. In that case, as I said, and in the debate in principle, which is that we will still be a country that will be a positive example. So, when it comes to this amendment in which Article 3 after the wording - personal development and development of society, words are added - equal opportunities, and rights in access to goods and services, and after the words - with respect, words - biological, social and cultural differences between men and women are added, it is only because the concept of gender equality is extended to the area of access to goods and services, and this is precisely by establishing equal rights and opportunities for access and goods and services. In the second part of the amendment, the addition of Article 3 is proposed so that the concept of gender equality is included as a component of respect, not only of different interests, the need for priorities of women and men, when making public and other policies, and the decision on rights, obligations and interests, but perhaps also of respecting biological and social, culturally formed differences, because precisely by respecting these differences, policies and measures are formulated precisely so that they can ensure both de facto equality and equal starting positions, both men and women have. This formulation also meets the general recommendation that we received from the committee, and you, Minister, know that, and I am so glad that you recognized this amendment as a good addition to the law and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6891	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6892	Except that the amendment, which has been accepted, has become an integral part of the bill, is better by wording and how Parliamentarian Snezana Paunović, said, expresses the opinions we received from the Council of Europe, the whole process, your efforts, to read and propose, and ours to respect everything possible, from opinions, which are otherwise on some 69 pages, in a very short time, showing one other referring provision for all of us, which is that the best regulations are made with the widest possible involvement. So MPs at an early stage, international organisations, and in this case, the Council of Europe, and in other cases some trade organisation, the World Trade Organisation, whoever, because it strengthens the dialogue that exists in society, and you prove that the more heads, the more minds. And then, most usefully, the short deadlines, which we normally have under the plan system law, to do, the law by procedure of white paper, the basics, to the proposal which you are referred to for adoption, so when we all read and are all involved, that is already a guarantee, that the bill will be the best possible, to experience in application and then to some new changes and additions, so that I am grateful for that and because I think it should become a new mode of work, the National Assembly and Government, and in the future, especially at this stage of EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6893	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6894	Thank you, Chairman. An amendment to Article 4 is proposed to delete the proposed points 17, 20 and 24. Point 17) speaks of the native sensitive language, 20) unnecessarily defines the association, because associations are defined by other laws and point 24) speaks of birth stereotypes. Under the parole of the elimination of birth stereotypes, there is, in fact, a huge and hidden way of undoing sex in the near perspective, eliminating tradition and centuries behind us established positive values. It's not, fortunately, anything that comes out of traditional values is bad, so it can't be defined like this. On the contrary, with such provisions, if they survive as defined, someone will simply apply this tomorrow as if all traditional values were absolutely negative. The adoption of such a text in the very near future, as we are witnessing that it exists in other countries, can lead to the persecution of anyone who is raising his child, which is his unimpeached right, even trying to point to the positiveness of traditional education. As I promised, the previous amendments, I will remind you, I did not explain, because the words "full" and possibly "men" are added there, but once again for all, I will tell you here – in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I will now find and read to you, if I should not, the definition of gender equality does not say, gender equality. I believe it is necessary to establish gender equality, but it cannot be what the Constitution did not specify to be older and more important, regardless of how you interpret it in relation to what was very precisely defined in the Constitution, especially when this law repeals the Law of Full Equality, and more than half of this law speaks exclusively of relations between men and women. These kinds of collations are illegal. One more thing, if I am not misinformed, even the EU from the Declaration on the improvement of social cohesion has removed the term of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6895	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6896	In the Constitution is gender equality and the law on gender equality. This stems from the general constitutional provisions on equal opportunities policy. So there is no gender equality either in the law, nor in the Constitution, but you mentioned the traditional values well. How far into tradition? Seventy years that I can't choose to go to school? A hundred years -- that I don't have the right to vote? A hundred and fifty years -- that I have no right to leave the house? Two hundred years - to marry me who they want? Fifty years - to tell me how many children I'm going to have? Forty years -- that they decide on my body? What tradition do you really want to remain adopted in our present life and be related to gender as the socially prescribed role of women in society? By 2002, do you want the tradition of not admitting domestic violence? It doesn't exist, he says. He says there is no violence in our families. Would you like that tradition? To end the crime of domestic violence and consider it a tradition, good, bad, whatever, a family as a place where everyone beats everyone as long as it suits him? What tradition? Would you like the tradition of philanthropy, the tradition of humanity, to protect others from yourself, the tradition of women who fought through thorns, stones, and everything that is an obstacle on the way to be educated? Will the tradition of women who, in spite of social bans, yielded results in science, in art, show their talent? If you want this other tradition, then you want human rights. If you want human rights, then you want the law on gender equality. It's not good for anyone to be afraid of past times where someone else has been defined to decide what a woman's identity is, what her role is, what her right is. It's not good because it's part of a tradition that because of the good tradition that we have as a society, we want to change, forget and talk about it as something that's happened to other societies in the world, but it won't happen again. So, if we're talking about tradition, it doesn't mean that everything traditionally intended for a woman was good for a woman or for a man. When we talk about tradition, we talk about the will of this people to change for the better things they see in their environment, everything that lives and everything they want to change so that the children we give birth to live in better conditions than we do. It is a tradition of human rights and that is why I am grateful that you mention tradition by trying to set tradition as a counterpoint for legal solutions. The only tradition that's counterpointing these legal solutions is putting a woman in her place, her silence, her killing, taking away her permission to decide on her life. It is the only tradition that is contrary to the provisions of this law and I am absolutely certain that no one in this room, no one in Serbia wants such a tradition again in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6897	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6898	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's the second or third time today that, right now, I don't believe at all, you're leaving out a part of the words that are very important, which I used. I was very precise when I said – positive traditions. I wasn't even talking about the time when it couldn't be about school. For me, it's not part of a positive tradition, like no one should have a positive tradition, but no one has the right to erase exactly the positive liquid traditions that exist. What, are you saying there's nothing positive about Serbian tradition? I don't think anyone in this room will agree with you. I ask you once again in the name of decency and correctness, do not use terms that I did not use, or try, and you know it very well, to be as precise as I was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6899	The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6900	If I were to say anything bad about good in the traditions of the Serbian people, I would say it, and since I haven't, then it's in vain for you to argue with me about what's good in the tradition of this society, completely in vain, as it is in vain to try to hide that when you mention tradition as a counterpoint to the provisions of this law as something that this law wants to undo, destroy and make irrelevant, which has nothing to do with facts, nor any argument that would contribute to it. On the contrary, all the provisions of this law are modern legal language, translated, legal language of the 21st century, what is best, what is most beautiful, what is most bright in the tradition of our people, what is rested on by our deep civilization culture belonging to the European continent. So he can't do both. You can't even claim that this isn't a positive tradition, because it is and you can't ask tradition to oppose the provisions of this law. One of those two shuts down.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6901	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6902	Thank you, Vice President. Article 4 paragraph 5, after saying: “Violence based on gender, sex characteristics, or gender or gender change,” adds the words: “Violence against women. ” An important member, because of, unfortunately, important phenomena. I will take the opportunity to speak of this amendment and to draw attention to this kind of violence, which is manifested in different forms. We've had it since domestic violence, through partner violence, abuse at work, not to mention, we've talked about it, there are different phenomena, when it comes to violence against women. First of all, I thank you for really having heard of the change in the term of violence against women and honored the amendment of my colleague Sandra Christmas, because we also talked about it at the conference of the Women's Parliamentary Network and then we asked you to. You were absolutely right, and Sandra in her explanation and you who further explained why you accepted it. The fact is that in the last 10 years, and we've talked about it, 320 women have been killed, and that's somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, the average of 30 women on an annual basis. I won't even try, let alone say that violence doesn't exist against men either, because I wouldn't be honest enough, or me enough, if I didn't put an accent on it, but the fact that statistics say, unfortunately, in addition to the fact that the victims are only women, perhaps in a larger number of women, maybe because they're physically weaker. But anyway, we as a society have to recognize that we have to do more here, that we have to protect. On the third hand, we also have to be aware of it and we have to talk about it again, that these legal solutions often inspire those who improvise, who falsely present the violence they have experienced or survived, trying to hide and collect the benefits that they think they will be entitled to, on the basis of some fictitious or written stories. We have to recognize all of this as a society. But in order to even get to the stage so that we can recognize whether there's a law abuse, we have to bring it in and let go of its application to see what it looks like. Third and most importantly, I can't stay immune to the tradition story. Tradition, not only of the Serb people, but of a living man, is that he sometimes has a son in his reproduction and sometimes a daughter. Every law, especially the Law of Gender Equality, must be looked at through the prism of our child. You know, because if we recognize that for our daughter maybe this law lays the groundwork for someone better the day after tomorrow, she'll certainly upgrade ours, she'll be smarter than we are, she'll have some other time, if we see it that way, we'll take it easier. I feel the same way about all those who need to look at it from my son's position. It's the only thing that's missing somewhere, the only thing we haven't been able to explain to ourselves is that it's easier for us to fence ourselves, relying on our wonderful tradition. She was also wonderful at the time you spoke of, Minister, when there was talk of whether you could go to school or not. Maybe someone with nostalgia would look at it. We may understand that from this distance, but what we primarily need to understand and why, first of all, I've dealt with these laws that are on the agenda today, is that we live in the 21st century, a modern society that has been rapidly modernizing itself. I'm sure this law will suffer its change for the better in a year. Which we would rather take today's first step, if the day after tomorrow the second one awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6903	Thank you. The name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6904	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment proposes, first of all, a language intervention in point 3 of Article 1(1). A bill, which is more appropriate to the spirit of language first, but to reduce the reasoning. The concept of gender perspective implies, above all, the awareness of gender differences and the inclusion and respect of these differences and specificities when formulating concrete measures, policies and activities related to gender equality. Respect for differences is a condition of tolerance, understanding and equality. If these standards are respected, then there will be no discrimination, that is, we will have less reason to apply the first law that we have discussed in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6905	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Chapter II above Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. No one wants a word. On behalf of the above-Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment, the MP, George Komlenski, submitted. No one wants a word. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. No one wants a word. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6906	Thank you, Vice President. Article 10 following Article 2 adds a new position 3 which reads: ‘In determining specific measures, different interests, needs and priorities of women and men must be respected and specific measures must be provided: under one, women's rights, girls and men's rights to information and equal access to policies, programmes and services, the application of birthing and birth-response budgeting in the planning, management and implementation of plans, projects and policies, the promotion of equal opportunities in the management of human resources on the labour market, balanced representation of sex in administrative and supervisory bodies and positions, balanced representation of sex at each stage of the formulation and implementation of gender equality policies, the use of gender-sensitative language to affect the removal of gender stereotypes in the exercise of the rights and obligations of women and men and the relevant data collected to the full institutions. In this case, point 3 becomes point 4. Just for a little while. I thought it was good to get a 10. The draft law will be complemented by detailing, above all, the objectives specific to achieving gender equality should be achieved by all established entities. These objectives are also a sort of prevention of discrimination. It is therefore important to highlight them in this law that follows the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6907	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. Under the name of Chapter III above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted. No one wants a word. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6908	Thank you, Vice President. A significant newspaper of this law in relation to the current law is a legal obligation, above all, to draw up a strategic document, which is a national strategy for gender equality and an action plan for the implementation of the strategy. Then there are the plans of local self-government. We talked about them, I think, on some round table in the preparation of this law, Minister, if I'm not mistaken, but the autonomous province strategy was lagging behind, so I proposed this amendment to accompany this obligation simply and at that level of government that I think is equally important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6909	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6910	Thank you. We accepted, of course, the amendment. I thank you again for your efforts. And this is simply an important addition that was very common to people who at some point participated in the creation of laws. Like now, if you're making a national strategy, then you'll also make an action plan. If you're making an action plan, then it'll be done by both local self-government and Vojvodina. Nothing is understood. That's why your intervention is valuable, because if we make a strategy of gender equality, it's in the works, I think tomorrow we have the first meeting, Zorana Mihajlović is chairing the working group, so even if we do the text of the strategy, without working out by age, by money, by those in charge, the whole plan of how you're going to get to the goal of the strategy, it's going to remain a nice text, probably, but a dead letter on paper. That is why we believe that this is important and that it is a reference provision for all other laws, that it is always written clearly and loudly, no matter how much it means, that, with national strategies, no matter what level, written under the law on the design system, we are concerned with the action plans of territorial autonomy and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6911	Thank you. According to the amendment, Snezana Paunovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6912	Dear Minister, I am almost certain that you had no intention of abandoning an autonomous province, however, we have been working too long in politics not to know that everything that is meant is mostly not being applied. The only thing that's an absolute assumption is that that's how it would be. It is understood that the default would not apply. That was the reason I intervened, because I really understood this as a failure of a technical nature, first of all. Not even because it's meant to be, because knowing you, I know you don't often believe in it by default. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6913	Thank you, everyone. In the name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. No one wants a word. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. At the name of the 19th and the 19th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. No one wants a word. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Mr. Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6914	Thank you, Chairman. As I have promised, all these amendments that have passed without further explanation refer to the fact that in the head above a member, in the name of a member, in addition to the words, or in front of the words "born", the word "full", "full", or the rest in an appropriate grammar form, as I remind you. As for Articles 25 and another of the next members, if we allow this law to establish the obligation to introduce a native sensitive language, we will let others ask themselves about the Serbian language, not the Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian Language of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. We need to ask ourselves who we are and what we are, and then where this is going? This is in direct contrast with the Constitution of Serbia and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because this will practically create a huge space and I am sure we will witness the reintroduction of verbal delinquent and censorship. No one has the right and can forbid that the possibility of expression that suits him most from Serbian is chosen, even if they are, as experts say they say, forms of a grammatically neutral male race. It is precisely the future ban on the use of the right Serbian language, at least what the Serbian-language Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art considers to be something to be declared. Or we're going to have one complete collapsing, that the Serbian language school programs will go according to this, and that in reality those who leave school, now going to school, are either going to school after the introduction of this law, are going to be in a position to forget everything they had to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6915	Thank you. Minister Komic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6916	Only the Serbian Standardisation Committee and wonders. So, only they can say that the extensions for the nouns that change by the grammar of Serbian language by gender, number and fall should be used, whether – ica, ska, žina, all those extensions decided by the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language. It's a small problem that the Committee didn't do it as a job, but it will, it's not a problem. This isn't about the dreams of some terrible language insinuation. This is about Serbian grammar. All the phonebooks in our language agree on gender, number, and fall. So I am the politician who submitted the bill to the government, the government accepted and directed it to the National Assembly. I am not a politician who has submitted a bill that the government has adopted and directed to the National Assembly. It's just a Serbian grammar. But at the same time, one of the finest instruments that you can easily evaluate and see what it's really about, because it's not really about grammar. And that's the right of those people. So, when the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language prescribes that I am a minister rather than a minister, I will call myself a minister, because I also respect the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language and respect my own language, which I love. So far, the Committee has not decided, so I am both Minister and Minister. I can be an architect, I can be an architect, I can be anything I want, because there are no clearly prescribed extensions for female occupations. If you say that the names in the male race are neutral and that everything is one thing, that's the argument I love the most. Because if everything is one thing, then the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia can say that the Republic of Serbia is the state of all its citizens. Is it all one thing? Is it? Well, what doesn't it say? Because it's not all one thing. We'll change. I don't mind the change. I respect my language, I love my language, I know my language, and I use my language to use people who don't have the courage to say – we won't see women in all sectors of the profession, so at least we'll deny them the right to call themselves in the profession of their own kind. So I speak the same language to those people. There is no danger that a woman who deals with some self - interest and defines that profession. The debate takes a long time and reaches, for example, documents from the Serbian Orthodox Church, 19th century, from Vrsac, where the manager writes. And it's the same spirit of language. The language is a living creation, and if the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language decides that it cannot be a change of nouns by gender, number and drop, I will not change them. While grammar is that the nouns change by number, gender and fall, I am a minister or minister, politician, physicist, I am who I know I am. I'm a woman and I have the right to speak of myself as a female. So do I, and any woman, and any other man. It'll probably be a language debate. I am grateful that you have submitted this amendment, because if you didn't have the opportunity not to have the opportunity to make it clear what this is really about, that it's about grammar, that it's not about politics and that it's always about professional people using politics instead of grammar instead of being the other way around. I wish we could all know a lot more grammar and read a lot more, then we could easily agree whether I'm a minister or a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6917	The word is Gjorge Komlenski, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6918	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry, I've learned this little grammar as much as I've learned, but what I've been talking about is exactly the position not only of the SANU Standardisation Committee, but of many professors of Serbian language and literature from primary, secondary schools, colleges, so at this point I'm someone who's transmuting their opinion and I'm not giving myself the right to give a final court on this. To be honest, what I've learned is that it's quite right and similar, equal enough and there's no point in imposing anything else and creating space to impose through this law from what the Sanu Committee says whenever it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6919	Thank you, Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6920	Since you're passing messages, and those who don't want to speak to me on their own, no matter how much you've called for dialogue, then you can give them the next message that I told them that George Komlensky's MP gave me a message that I heard the message and that we're ready for dialogue together again. That language is understood by people who, in your opinion, send me a message about natively sensitive language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6921	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6922	Well, with all our ignorance now, it seems to me that the "minister" is a word that is closer to one of the neighbouring people with whom we border across the Danube, but I don't want to be someone who's an expert on linguistics, because I'm not, but also from those you called, they're going to be told that you've been calling them here and if they claim that you haven't called them at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6924	You see how the language is a living creation. So, many of the board members, including others, will always call and will always be opened to the door and fortunately that the two of us understand what dialogue is and that with this little game and the grammar of the Serbian language per generation, the number and fall we do in fact more clearly all of what you have as a message and attitude, what you have the right to do, and what we as the Ministry have a message and a right. But here's an official call, and we're gonna start working on social dialogues, and we're gonna have a couple of big ones waiting for us. The first social dialogue is about the state of mental health, as a consequence of Kovid – 19 nations and measures to be taken. The other are two or three socio-economic dialogues that talk about the consequences of Kovid – 19 on employees, first of all, of women. We have two more in terms of sustainable development, but at the earliest of July we will work on organising dialogue on the use of Serbian language grammar for women and men and you will be invited and more than welcome to have an introductory lecture that we are working together to discuss with us a lot more about how you and I are today, because I think it is good for both Serbian language grammar and for women and for men living in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6925	Thank you, everyone. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6926	Thank you. In Article 27, paragraph 1, following the words "including career progress", the words "as in all other activities of these organisations" are added. Another precise definition which should essentially ensure equality in all employment activities that are not decidently listed in order to avoid the situation that what is not stated in the law is not valid, as we have just discussed or cannot be applied as a factor of gender equality in this area that is absolutely important to life, because it is actually a matter of having a right to employment regardless of the differences based on biological or other characteristics. So I thank you once again that the government has accepted an amendment that I think is really important, because it specifies certain things.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6927	Thank you. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6928	I checked in, maybe not fast enough, according to Article 28. It is exactly what you claim not to be, in my statement, SANU, that it is, and also in the law itself, at the point 4 of point 3. which implies taking into account the law of the measures covered by it, and says: “Use of natively sensitive language, language that is in accordance with grammar in textbooks and teaching material, as well as in testimonies, diplomas, classifications, titles, professions and licences, as well as in other forms of educational-examination work.” The obligation to apply what SANU is talking about and what the attitude is about is derivated by such provisions of the law and were alive so as to see if, unfortunately, in the near future, we'll be right for me or, fortunately, you'll be right.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6929	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6930	We can immediately resolve this dilemma because I am right or a member of the SANU Working Group, so I will relieve you of the fear of what it says in the law, as it has been in force since 2009. You know what it looks like in laws and in texts? In the laws of one member or the attitude of one, more often a member, that these nouns are considered both male and female. That's what a native sensitive language looks like. There is no reason for fear of demeaning SANU, nor is there any reason for them to ever stop being critical of Serbia, which I think is their main role in the accumulated knowledge and experience and, of course, political views. Just because he's an academic, doesn't mean he doesn't have a very firm political stance that he advocates, which could have something to do with the Serbian government's policy, could have something to do with the views of individual political parties, not necessarily. You and I both know academics who are very clear and good to do so step forward and say their critical thought. In that sense, they too will be invited to a social dialogue on which I hope you will have the opportunity to lead first and then repeat all this argument and member of the SANU Working Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6931	Replica, George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6932	There is no need to pour fear or remove fear, depending on whether it is traditionally or modernly spoken, but I honestly am much more inclined to trust the Committee on Standardisation and SANU in a professional way, regardless of the possibility of a political attitude dealing with this issue than with us who are involved in politics that we will professionally deal with these details.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6933	Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6934	In autumn, SANU held a conference on gender equality where it was in two sessions with the patronage of the Academy of Presidents' leadership, words and gender equality as a topic of women's role and especially in the role of women in science, so I see no reason why the idea of respect for Serbian-language grammar opposes SANU, as it does not oppose it. As soon as the Committee prepares a catalogue of female extensions, we put everything into laws, but it hasn't done yet, it's a little missing, and it needs to be done thoroughly. Here, right now, let me tell you that we strongly support and promote all that does and the SANU that's been dealing with human rights and children's rights, children's rights, women's rights. The ministry will be presented next week with bilingual scientists, women from Serbia, mainly from natural sciences, STEM who learn, work and live in at least two languages and with the support and presence of SANU. I can only try to share with you information without the hope of getting credibility with you so that I know the grammar of Serbian language, but I know all the details about what and how SANU is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6935	The name above Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. In the name above the 35th and the 35th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 37th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of Section IV above Article 38 and Article 38 of the Correction Amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted. On behalf of Section V above Articles 39 and Article 39 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6936	I thank the chairman. As I said to the members I didn't speak of, they contain proposals for additions, adding words -- full in front of words -- born and where there was possibly a need to add men to the name of women. When it comes to gender and gender equality in the field of defence and security, I can only say that these laws will not lead to discrimination being prevented from reducing violence. I personally think that these laws can only produce even greater discrimination, unfortunately even greater violence. In one part of the law is so freaked out that it bothers and is collapsing with many other laws, and in the other part it is so general that it simply opens up too much space for different interpretations in future practice. What I'm talking about is not scaring anyone, I have no reason, because I just want to point out the fact that someone good, made a good effort on this law, but not in the sense of predicting everything in the right way but, now I have to comment on, that behind a part of the general and too wide provisions, create an opportunity for events, events and application the opposite of those that we all together want to see about this law. But, uh, possible details with some other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6937	Thank you. By amendment of Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6938	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment to Article 37(1) of the amendment has been accepted, but I would like to share with you some of my thoughts. I think it might have been better if the other terms were "mizagene, misandrian content" which are changed by the term "sexualist content" and the misantria I will now explain why. Both misandria and misogyny were accepted as professional terms in science. Mizandria is a pathological hatred of men as half, misogyny in a literal translation - a woman of hatred or intolerance, hatred of prejudice towards women, or female sex. As far as the concept of sexism is concerned, there is a certain problem in defining this concept. It mainly comes down to the concepts of prejudice, stereotyping on the basis of gender and discrimination, and the very essence of the Law on Gender Equality is that it is now in the way of deep-rooted prejudices in society, institutions thus create a completely different environment and culture of respect for diversity and for all of this, because the professional terms of misandria and misogyny specifically locate problems, I think it might have been better to remain on these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6939	Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6940	Consent with an extraordinary explanation. It was simply the Council of Europe in its termology that it used to recommend that it be replaced, and it was probably a motive to happen, and we accepted the amendment of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Snezana Paunović, but you also launched one topic that lacks dialogue in society, where we have these two expressions, how many people, women and men suffer on a daily, monthly basis, what I know, because there is silence and misogyny and misogyny, and we shouldn't be silent about it because hate is chosen, kindness learns, and maybe we could use your knowledge and everyone's knowledge of what misandria and misogyny is and learn a little kindness. It can't hurt anyone, and we'll know that the term that's in the law now implies exactly the explanation that you shared with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6941	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6942	Thank you, Chairman. For the whole area, this whole part of the amendment I have to say one thing. It is probably, I say, my fault, although as a parliament, as 250 MPs, no one has submitted such an amendment, but I know that the minister would answer me, it is business entities and gender equality in the real sector, in the economy, in the private sector, in the supervisory and management boards that there is a need for a balanced gender presence, etc. We are a country in transition and I know that private citizens have a three-year deadline to adapt to it, but I argue that this is a short deadline and in a very short time after we have the inapplicability of this part of the law, that it will be difficult to apply or inapplicable because we are neither Luxembourg nor Sweden. We're, I repeat, a country in transition and we're just opening up, hopefully soon, and we're closing chapters, clusters and everything. Yesterday, President Vukic negotiates new investors from the Czech Republic and now imagine the situation, I'm talking, first of all, about corporations, the boards of directors make those who own capital, who invest and now we tell them – no, there has to be a man here, even though you are a woman investor or you have to be on the board of directors and supervisors so many women. They'll say, "People, that's our capital." We manage our capital, our investments. Our environment must be different than the environment in Sweden. We must attract, and they are even exporters of investments. I think we're going to be forced to change that in three years, so I want to just warn everyone and say that we may not be able to do things with every good will at this point as a society to do it. A few hours ago, I was talking about social death and everything. Now it turns out I'm saying something different. No, this is a completely different situation. Same good for Serbia. What I'm saying in my opinion, perhaps I'm wrong, is good for Serbia. Imagine you now that we are NIS where the Russian investor is told – no, it can't be your governing relationship, and we are fighting, and be careful here we are even co-owners as state, with them not to kick people out of work these days, you see the front pages of the newspaper. Imagine saying "Hibis" in Chinese - that's what the board of directors must look like, as far as I know, it's not even there, but it's in China or the board of directors. Or an American MSR that has nearly four thousand employees in Belgrade with a minimum salary of 800 euros and is scheduled to open a new park and has four and a half thousand, 5,000 employees since September and we tell them – no, no, you have to ask us how to build a board of directors. It's a little hard going that way. To attract investment, I don't think it's a problem right now, and it won't be a problem for the next three years, but in three years, I doubt we'll be in a position to do this. Perhaps to consider in the ministry to consult with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and see possibly some changes and additions over the next year, two to adjust the situation so that we don't lose investors, God forbid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6943	Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6944	It's always power that says it's not possible. It doesn't matter what power it is, whether it's from politics, whether it's from economics, whether it's from whatever, but power first says -- it's mine, I saw it first, it's nothing and it's human completely. Our intention to make this provision, which is indicative, say balanced management, if you can't, submit, propose specific measures that will sometimes allow women to have access to management in private companies in the future. It's the same every time. So when women ask for the right to vote, they can't, because they can't. When they ask for the right to go to school, they can't, it'll go to a woman's evil, I quote. When they claim the right to inherit, what they will do to her, he has a brother. When they ask for the right to work, they can't, they should have a baby, they'll have a problem with having children and a job. Of course he's going to have a problem, because we don't talk about special measures that make it easier for both women and men to do what the idea is, because women in private companies have, so we know them, when you consult women from large private companies, they're both hands for this provision. Because they can't get to the controls, because there are all the syndromes that usually exist where money and power are developed. And we say, no one orders you to balance in a month, but let's see those women around you at the big firm are great but they don't get into your little boy club, they're out there somewhere, they're not for it, they don't have capital. It's not possible, because women with capital had the same intervention on this, and we said, well, let's find the door and windows to manage the resources in society, because private capital is also a social resource, not social property, far away, not God, but simply a resource for the development of society. We say balance management. If you can't, think of some special measures that you'll go towards making management more balanced. If you can't do it at all, it will make you live, because experience with this provision shows that companies are private, which respect female knowledge, female ambition, women's role, in private companies make more profits in a very short time. So, he can choose: he will either balance right now or he will do some special measures that go towards balance or he will be threatened by the competitor, because he will say, well, which fool would not use capable women, sacrificed, educated, why should I keep them at a lower level of governance if they are creative and can make decisions. That's right in politics, that's right in the economy, that's how it is in banking, that's how it is everywhere. We're farthest in the idea of doing any personal damage. The closest we are to getting to dialogue, to using ourselves, for the state, therefore, for society all the resources that are at our disposal. Women in private companies, educated women are such a resource. Until you write such a provision by referring to special measures if you can't, they won't simply be seen, it's the nature of things, it's the state of things in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6945	By amendment, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6946	Thank you. First of all, thank you to my colleague, Danieli, you're absolutely right. I see here somehow, and as my mistake, the fact that we may not be, well, that missing dialogue. If we had discussed this amendment, we might have found a happier solution that does not exclude one another. It is good to recognize this to recognize what is the possibility that we are really talking more in perspective, although yesterday I spoke to my colleague Bačevac and realized, first of all, from the point of view of a doctor why he intervened, but unfortunately it was too late to change the content of the amendment. When it comes to fellow Shormaz, you're right. I understand the concern he was talking about, with what, is the Minister's well-explained explanation, not binding, she points out, and she doesn't understand it well, or that at least the public doesn't get us wrong, let alone potential investors that there are some binding clauses here, because you yourself said in the explanation we have a Chinese firm whose board is in China, so it certainly doesn't belong to what it says here, even if it's binding, let alone if it's referring. It's important to say something to identify it as a possibility, and I don't think it's going to be at least one of the motives for giving up anyone who's seriously involved. You might imagine whether there are any smart women in that Serbia, so it's hard to find them, but that they're about to give up their investment, I'm pretty sure they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6947	Thank you. By amendment of Daniela Vujicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6948	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, the Honorable Minister Mrs Comic, with associates, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, the topic of gender equality, in fact, is no longer a taboo issue, which is seen first and foremost in the case of the composition of our Government, in which more than 50% are women, as well as public officials in the Republic of Serbia at the local and central level of government, as well as the increasingly observed and represented participation of women in all areas of social life on which we give, in fact, a good example, in the region and in many countries across Europe, and thus the political elite in power in Serbia provides an example of fighting for gender equality. It should be stressed that we are the first non-EU country to develop a gender equality index, that we are an example of good practice in the UN to introduce a gender-responsible b budgeting, that we have adopted new laws in the area of preventing violence against women, that we have trained institutions that are more sensitive to this topic today, and that we are actively working on women's economic empowerment. The women's parliamentary network in the Serbian Parliament whose work I praise and proudly points out that it has shown that interpartial dialogue is being conducted and co-operated on the same goal, regardless of which political spectrum participants are coming from. The new draft law on gender equality, which has been in fact since 2016, as well as the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, as well as the proposal for a strategy to prevent and combat gender-based violence against women and domestic violence for the period 2021-2025, which has been developed in accordance with all international standards and recommendations in the area of gender-based violence and domestic violence, enable the demands and experiences of women and men to be incorporated into the processes of creation, operation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes in all areas of politics, economy, information and in all social spheres, so that women and men are equally profited from it. Serbia is at the world's top not only of women in the government, but also of such trends in municipalities and cities. We have an increasing number of municipal and mayoral presidents. Even 20 local self-governments in the Republic of Serbia run women, and in 13 municipalities do so for the first time, but we will continue to fight to preserve the leadership position in the executive and legislative power by the number of women involved in political life. In which way one society sees the role of a woman and a man and what each of them expects is social expectations related to gender roles depending on a number of factors, cultural, political, economic, social and religious. They are equally affected by customs, law, class and ethnicity, as well as prejudice spread in a given society. I would return to the law and the subject of a ban on discrimination that is actually the foundation of democratic society. As important as this human right and modern democratic fluid are, many international documents guaranteeing a ban on discrimination show. The adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is certainly one of the major steps in this direction. First, because the obligation to ban all forms and types of discrimination stems from a number of international documents that the Republic of Serbia as the legal supervisor of the former SFRY and the state union of the SCG already indirectly ratified. Following the adoption of the law on the prohibition of discrimination, the next and nothing less significant step is necessary, and this is its real application, i.e. implementation. In the current law, apart from the principle of equality, there are also forms of discrimination and I would draw attention to one of the forms of discrimination, which is the area of public information besides a number of others that are being singled out. The fundamental assumption of freedom of expression in democratic society is the freedom of the media that ensures that various social, cultural and political values, opinions, information, interests are represented in the media area of the public. In view of the key role freedom of expression played in democratic society, it unfortunately, in addition to the right to bring out information, is viewed as uninsultible and does not cause reaction, includes those who insult, shock and upset. We are witnessing a multi-year-old organized media link to President Alexander Vukic and his family, who overcomes the indiscretion of speech, personal and professional degradation and enters the serious and threatening frameworks of hate speech, to endanger personal security, the safety of his family. And in previous days, unremembered and through a direct, media link to Danil Vukic. This is not just about disenfranchising all standards of competence in public communication, but also about a much more serious and dangerous plan, creating mistrust in the institutions of the state, thus opening up a space for the extra-institutional and perverse functioning of those who consider themselves above the state and every law. In the modern world more than ever, media are able to shape and reshape social and political realities. The mass media has a major impact on public opinion formation and political propaganda. One of the definitions of mass media is that they operate in accordance with certain laws, rules and understandings of professional codes and practices, audiences, social expectations, habits, and thus operate within certain disciplines, rules, rights and policies that employ a characteristic mix of qualified staff who adhere to certain procedures, which means that any disregard and abuse of the ethical code of mass media should be institutionally sanctioned. The question is, what then to expect an ordinary citizen if there is no institutional reaction and sanctions? To prevent this, there is a possibility that freedom of expression under certain conditions may be limited. The essence of the ban on hate speech is not to deny freedom of expression, but to prevent the abuse of that freedom. An example of how the proven liars I directly tell lie to are doing, as has been proven in the case of a colleague of Bakarec, where the Commission of the press Council's complaints made a decision to violate the Serbian press code through the truthfulness of the report as well as a guideline within the same, where his statement was misread and mistranslated and mistranslated and incorrectly conveyed better. One such restriction sets out rules on the ban on hate speech that qualify in literature statements that intimidate, insult or harass individuals and groups. In particular, given the experience in comparable legal systems, where only regulatory and regulatory bodies in the field of public information, as well as the work of independent bodies operating in the area of protection of human rights, are of great importance to the successful control of hate speech in the media. Here is the question of the reaction of the Gilas Associations of Journalists and other institutions in this country, which will sanction or decide as selectively as they have so far. If the child and family of the opposition are mentioned in this case, we are tyrants and dictators, and when children are mentioned, especially the juvenile Vulcan, then Milica and Danilo, there is no right or justice for them. In fact, this is one of the most direct, brutal and most primitive damages and a classic example of discrimination and violation of an existing Article 22. The Law on Discrimination. I have to read this, in Section 2. says – it is forbidden to discriminate against a child, i.e. a minor towards a health condition, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, belonging, marriage, or out-of-marriage birth, public invitation to favour children of one sex, as well as making a difference in health status, property, profession and other social status features, activities, expressed opinion or conviction of the child's parents, i.e. guardians and family members. The president's family has just been exposed to a permanent violation of this particular member, namely his children, especially the juvenile Vulcan. Of course, I end up, we're witnesses that, from space, I have to point out, where, in fact, when we're talking about KIM space, the most brutal violation of all rights, human rights, and where the biggest discrimination on the ground of Europe has been sustained is towards the Serb people on KIM and on freedom of speech, on language, as personal documents. I want only this opportunity to express the satisfaction of living in a country of equal rights and freedoms, which, in fact, I am proud of, for all citizens and citizens, regardless of religious and nationality, where these rights have just been translated into legal frameworks that are ahead of us and which I will actually do in the day of voting and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6949	Thank you. On behalf of section 6 above the member of the 40th and member of the 40th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Under the name of section 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. On behalf of Section 8 above Articles 42 and Article 42, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of Section 9 above the Article 43rd and the 43rd Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of section 10 above the members of the 44th and member of the 44th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6950	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just sort of accept, I guess as a lawyer, I can't accept that what's not clearly defined by law, which is that what you said about the Serbian Academy of Science and Art is ultimately going to come out on what's a native sensitive language, because that's what the intention is probably supposed to be writing. I have one more question, the gender category is pretty undefined. I've been trying to ask around, and somehow I've come up with some number of 70 possible generations from various sources and interpretations. The day before yesterday, we heard Mr. Zukorlic mention 100 or more possible storks, and I didn't notice that this law creates space at all and defines who will declare it. Come on, we've got the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts here, so let's count on that to happen. And, in what way possible abuses are going to be, because the full definition is biological, and the birth certificate is something else, it's our definition of what we think we are or want to be. What happens if, say, transgender men in prison ask to be placed in a female pavilion? What happens if transgender men, who can't get into karate, means so-called. transgender men, demanding to fight in karate, judo, swimming, tennis, kickboxing with women? It's already happening in America. How are we gonna stop that? Who are we going to explain that something like this that's already going on out there, we didn't predict and we didn't think about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6951	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6952	Because the subject of your argument is the subject of a second law whose basics are being prepared in the ministry and whether or not there will be social dialogues. So, are we going to work under the Bill of the Plane System before the birth certificate or not? That's all you're talking about. It's not the subject of this law, it's the subject if there's a possible future law, then you'll be invited to say a few words. What happens if that happens in sports? The same thing that happened when women asked to participate in the Olympic Games. Nothing happened. Women participated. The Olympic Committee has very clear provisions if you are challenged and that, and all else, if the ministry comes to the ground with your participation, then all that concerns you will be subject to a completely different law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6953	The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6954	Just a very brief comment. This law cannot be under the theme "if," then it had to be a law that was supposed to be ready and in a package along with these laws, because these are real dangers that could happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6955	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6956	It's not a danger, it's an "aki." It would be easier to have a discussion sometimes if everyone reads a little bit. So, two laws ahead of you are the laws of the National Action Plan and the laws of "akija", which Serbia itself committed almost five years ago and itself was late with amendments and additions to the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. These two laws are within the framework of the first class of fundamental rights and under the once-opened chapters 23 and 24. If there's this law, it has nothing to do with "aki", it has to do with reasonable people, like you, who see that the problem exists. Europe does not force you to pass laws on gender identity, as the European Union does not force you to pass laws on the same-sex communities. It is for this society to decide whether there will be more justice in society and whether there will be fewer accidents for all its members or not. That's why - if. There are no laws on the "aki" list - if so, you took it as an obligation. You'll only act unserious if you break deadlines on your own. Fortunately, Serbia has accelerated European integration and it is perfectly understandable that at one point we have gone slower than we have assessed ourselves as not knowing well that we are planning and Serbia will achieve everything that it has prescribed for itself in the prescribed deadlines this year and these two laws are included in this, as well as other laws for which you are key to passing them. The law I'm talking about -- if, and after the dialogue, it has nothing to do with the list of "aki."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6957	On behalf of section 11 above article 45 and Article 45, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of section 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of section 13 above Article 47 and the name of the 47th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. At the name of section 14 above the article 48 and the 48th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of Chapter VI, the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6958	Thank you, Vice President. Although I haven't sent it, we're talking about article 51, right? The title is amended as follows: "No violence based on gender, sex characteristics, or gender and violence against women". Somewhere in the amendment, to the ninth amendment that I have submitted, to Article 51 and Article 53, paragraph 1, where after saying "or gender" they add the words "and violence against women" so as not to report twice, we simply try to make sure that they report violence against women. Thank you for understanding this, it is one of the most drastic and most present of all violence, and it seems to me that by detailing this obligation, it is given to the gravity of this problem, which is before somewhere in the time of the covid, especially during the state of emergency, it somehow seems to me that it has worsened, although yesterday I realized that there was no increased violence at the time of the emergency, but in 2021, unfortunately, it shows an increase in violence compared to women. This now rests on what my question is about your ministry and that initiative and the appeal that we can talk about how much the coronary virus itself affected, above all, the mental state of the nation and our health and how much the fact that we met with something that made us change some basic habits and the situation in society. It's important to say that we have to recognize it at this stage, so that we don't meet up with some number that scares us or that we simply can't allow ourselves as a state. So I think it's important that this law simply has that member, although I understand that we will also have social dialogue on this subject and it's important that we also hear professional people, but also the general public about how any of us perceives what is happening around us or is just going to happen, because I really think that we're just going to see the effects. I also have some information that even in Croatia there has been a rise in young people who have now some milder or more severe mental disorders, so that this is measured compared to 2019, if they had a certain percentage of one, now they have ten patients, I'm afraid that they are somewhere all the effects of one fear that was justified, which was human, which was simply the fear of all of us, we didn't understand what was happening to us, and even less we could believe that we were going to be able to deal with it. This amendment is only going in that direction that at every moment we can and in every sentence in which we can put violence against women and apostrophe it above all to make it easier to recognize it, and also help those categories of women who really suffer unprecedented.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6959	The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6960	Thank you. I also thank the MPs, Snezani Paunovic, because she has initiated two social dialogues, one of which will be held in June, about the socio-economic position of women, therefore, about the consequences of the loins on women, too, because most of them in the entire ageing economy are in health care, in school, in services, in shops, in the market, wherever you want, the ageing economy, therefore, about another family that you care about, and the simple initiative of your MPs, Snowžana Paunović was - let us talk about how to remove the consequences that the Kovid has caused to the socio-economic position of such women. This epidemic is one big problem, but let's say the floods in 2014 were one big problem. So we passed the law one time about removing the effects of the flood, because we saw where people are at risk, how we can help these people. Now we want social dialogue, where I don't know if we're going to pass the law, it's up to you, in fact, or what we're going to do, but to remove at least some consequences for all those women who worked 18 hours and slept for six hours or those who were more fired, etc. The second part of the dialogue you have initiated for our society is our mental health, the mental health of the population, how we are closed without ritual, in uncertainty, fortunately, in Serbia that has immunization, which has well organized the division of vaccines, but still in our environment it is not so. So, a team of experts of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists is working to collect research from the region and what is available and during June will have some initial thesis to have a social dialogue on how exhausted we are, mentally exhausted, epidemic and how much uncertainty we feel as members of this society, so that we can see whether there are some more measures between us to bring about the removal of these consequences, to help each other, to help mental health centres, to talk about violence, to support each other, to expand, to know, something that we should be able to perpetuate this loneliness that we had during the pandemic, I repeat, fortunately in Serbia, which is much better in the fight of vaccination than many other countries. So we follow what the Messengers of the people ask of us and do what they ask of us. I hope you'll appreciate that we're doing it successfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6961	The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6962	Thank you for that additional clarification, and it's not like someone doesn't like picking up laurels, but I have to say out loud, first of all, that I've been on specifically two subjects simply a megaphone. It is a parliamentary question that one man can ask, and I have asked what we talked about within the SPS parliamentary group, and also with colleagues from other parliamentary groups because, God forbid, we are not foreign to sit down and discuss all phenomena. The state has shown one responsible relationship with its citizens. Not to return, or to return, is not a bad thing to say, by bringing above all the economic measures that were instigated and ordinary citizens, but also all those other categories of people who were threatened by the fact that they simply couldn't do their job at this time that was uncertain. What's important to say is that inside of all the SPS parliamentary groups where there are now a lot of young people and a lot of people in mature age with a lot of political experience, professors, doctors, lawyers, whatever, when we sit down and in some relaxed conversations, if they can be called relaxed conversations, or at least in the time of this session, we interpret both the laws and what we bring in then we recognize how this reflects in some sectors of society. It is precious when you hear Professor Žark as much and as how it can affect children who, for example, are at an age when they have to socialize, who have to be forced to act completely associatively and sentenced exclusively to social networks. So the fact that I referred to you as a question is just a sublimation of everything that we've all talked about together, which we all think the same thing together. It will be my special pleasure to come to a solution with all our knowledge and experiences, why not some Lex specialise when it comes to the status of women. You're right, it's about women who were most exposed and who are more, unfortunately, in these actions that were somehow most important at this time of the crown. All of this not as an intruding of any of your words, but simply as an additional definition that as much as I like to be the smartest I can't take all the credit for not only mine, the product is talking to all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6963	Thank you. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Under the name Glava 7 above Article 59 and Article 59 of the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted with a correction. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. In the name above the 62nd and the 62nd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Gjorge Komlenski. On behalf of a member of the 63rd and a member of the 63rd Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. In the name above the 64th and the 64th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. On behalf of the Head of the 8th above the 65th, the name of the member of the 65th Amendment with the correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6964	Thank you, Vice President. I'm getting boring, but I won't be long. In Article 65(3), paragraph 3 is amended as follows: the body responsible for gender equality in the territorial autonomy unit, as well as in the local self-government unit in addition to the data set out in Article 2 of this Article shall also record the data on: adopted development plans and other acts in areas of competence of territorial autonomy units and units of local self-government which contain a gender perspective and summarise the description of the same; measures and activities initiated by this body, which are primarily in the function of achieving and improving gender equality; effects of the work of the public authorities; on the achievement and improvement of gender equality; realisation of the regional and local budget from a gender perspective; the achievement of the degree and quality of co-operation with other working bodies at the regional and local level; gender sensitive data from the authority of the territorial autonomy unit; the activities of the body of the local self-government; the bodies of the authorities, which are in the area of the local government, are not subject to their respective level of civil origination; and to the national law of civil law, which are not to the national law. I believe that it is essential that the law determines that all the requirements of Article 65 apply also to units of territorial autonomy, i.e. autonomous provinces and bodies established at this level to worry about gender equality. This amendment follows one of the previous amendments that I have submitted, and we have discussed that this is not understood, but we must say, which are introduced primarily into the law through the obligation to adopt its action plans for the implementation of the national strategy. That's, it seems important to me. It is important that at all levels of government we keep precise records of areas of activity aimed at effective prevention of all forms of discrimination. It seems to me that to a good extent, what we're about to see may well be that data from a local level, when it comes to violence. I kind of feel like we only have it globally now. First of all, violence against women will be defined by us, perhaps through this form where we will recognize not only that physical violence, but all the other forms of violence that occur in this area of life and that women face.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6965	Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6966	Thank you. At the time of the pandemic, continuing exactly what counterpart Paunovic was just talking about and what the amendment she submitted, at the time of the pandemic, except, of course, for the economic position of women, the coronary virus has also affected this aspect of domestic violence. It's something to pay particular attention to. Although the MUP reported that the number of reports of domestic violence and partner violence is dropping SOS phones, that is, calls from women victims of violence via SOS telephone are tripled, and unfortunately, as the pandemic of the coronary virus is global, so is the pandemic of violence global. It's not just happening with us. We also have next week a strategy to prevent violence and combat gender-sensitive violence against women and domestic violence, for the period from 2021 to 2025, and you, the minister, will participate in the presentation, as I believe both colleague Paunovic and many of our colleagues. Thank you for the invitation, and I think it's the right way for us to open important topics together for society. We open important topics, not only for gender equality, but through issues of gender equality, the protection of women and all marginalised groups, from any kind of violence or discrimination, is the safe way to strengthen the institutions of the system and restore the trust of citizens and citizens in the institutions of the system, as the only ones who are obliged and obliged to solve problems and improve the quality of life and certainly the state of human rights in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6967	Thank you. In the name above the 66th and the 66th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mrs. Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6968	The proposed amendment complements Article 68, which regulates the violation of the public authority, i.e. the responsible person in the authority of the Republic of Serbia, the authority of territorial autonomy and the body of the unit of local self-government by providing for criminal liability and for the conduct of the contrary to Article 34 relating to the prohibition of unequal earnings for the same work or work of equal value. Unfortunately, the topic we're going to be dealing with seems even more studioy, according to the average wage statistics available to women are lower than the average salary of men, and the pay gap in Serbia, which I talked about in the debate in principle is 8.8%. He is somewhere, I think, among the countries that have the smallest pay gap in Europe, it seems to me that the percentage of 23 is on the world level. It is important that there is also a criminal policy that will have both a preventive character and somehow force all of us, especially those responsible for upholding the law and not resorting to any discriminatory action or activities. I, as a socialist, also have a moral obligation to fight for this kind of equality. That's what you must have heard every time we were both in the election campaign and after, in the performances of the president of the SPS, one of the basic elements was equality and really equalising the salary between men and women. Somewhere it was a moral obligation for me to point out, first of all, and to amend myself, when it comes to this, because it is our principle, and it is the principle that everyone is living off of their work, and it seems to me that somewhere in the report of the Commissioner for Gender Equality, I was even talking about some case, some judicial decision, and now I haven't been able to make time for my colleague, young, good lawyer Dubravk to ask me, to remind me of what it was, but I know that the lawsuit was sent by both a man and a woman, that the verdict was in favour of a man, or that woman was complaining, because for the same internship and the same job she got a little pension, don't hold my word. I got that off my mind, but I remember this example that helped me to practically show what it looked like. Since this is the last amendment to this law, which I have submitted, I will end here, but in a specific way, thank you, above all, as a Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Serbia who understood my intervention, thank you to the colleagues who supported this. But what I especially want to thank you for is for the fact that despite the criticisms, especially thanks to a respected colleague of the Komlenski, because somewhere, it seems to me that this is exactly the way to come of ideal solutions. He did a studioly deal with the bill of both laws and really presented what he might see from his angle in one way that we don't recognize, but we talked about it and it's always good to talk about. The female parliamentary network, which could, along with me, from the first to the last MP in this House, sign everything that I have submitted as amendments, and I almost appreciate that the same thought, has its function, has justified its existence, and I firmly believe that in the perspective, it will upgrade everything that you have long begun with some other sumption. But what's important is, tell the Serbian citizens, who have ambition, or have no ambition to deal with politics, but have the ambition to live life, by voting for these two laws, we may not have done anything epochal, but I'm pretty sure we created a platform to upgrade the quality of your life. In order for us to be able to help you from this legislative authority or from any executive authority, we need to hear what the problems are, and we will never be deaf as men or women. This assembly, despite the fact that we have not all equally understood the proposals of this law, that it was not equally acceptable for everything, has its advantage and has shown that Serbia is the 21st century Serbia is reasonable people, that we and our differences can talk to first of all, the ambition to reduce them. To minimize that gap, which is the difference between men and women first, because somehow it was almost the only gap, and then all the others that opened up, when we realized there were some other categories. I may have missed out on another category of people I'm particularly sensitive to, and these are single parents, which we also didn't know how to recognize until the end. I wouldn't be Snezana Paunović, if I didn't say in the end, that we have another category that we have to deal with studioly, which is avoided and displaced faces, those people who live other people's lives for 20 and a few years, not because they're not ours, but because we've adapted to something because we had to. All of these are some categories of societies that we meet at a daily level, more or less, visible, and some simply fit into the system, get used to everything, some are not, and therefore they suffer hard, so eventually, if you want some personal burdens and frustrations, and they need to be recognized and helped. It will always be a pleasure to talk about laws that improve the quality of life, especially our citizens in that part, always the first woman and everything else. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6969	Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The word is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6970	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Comic, Serbia is a country based on values that promote equal opportunities and values for which any discrimination is unacceptable, and violence. Both citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and its institutions, have shown in all cases the emergence and discrimination and violence, that they are resolutely and firmly reacting to both condemnation and prosecution. In this regard, it is very important that we make good laws in the National Assembly that will condemn practices and phenomena and discrimination and violence. What I want to talk about here, and it is good that this open debate is being conducted, regardless of all disagreements, is those solutions that appear in these two laws, and there are good solutions, which are very problematic, which can create huge problems in practice, and have their source in exactly what Mrs. Komic was saying, the alleged presence of different stereotypes, the prejudice rooted in culture, this people, which supports and promotes violence and inequality. I cannot agree that the Serbian people, like the majority people and, of course, all citizens, people who accept violence, and who do not condemn individual phenomena, that the atmosphere and culture in society is such that they have to change by changing their consciousness and by introducing provisions that I believe are not the place here. The different aspects of this non-new ideology, which is not unknown, which exists in Europe and is introduced into Serbia, have created a situation for norms to appear, which do not recognise practices and individual cases, discriminations that are for condemnation and which are to be tried, processed, but to introduce norms undefined, such as standards concerning assumptions, neutral provisions, changing school programmes, changing language, affecting scientific research work, changing the structure of the governing body, spreading records and entering personal data of persons who have committed discrimination without the possibility of eradicating from these records, spreading space, filing of claims, even when the person to whom discrimination has been carried out, does not want that this initiative be initiated, the introduction of provisions affecting the rights of the renting of dwellings, so that individuals who are the owners of the dwellings come in the situation to be the subject of the problem, as they say, appear to be discriminatory and assume it is based on the presumption of freedom and the property. It is very important to point out that these provisions that go beyond the framework that are very specific in the way that individual acts are processed, such as discrimination, individual act, such as a single act of crime, such as a war crime, an act of an individual, cannot in this way make the whole of society get out, that its culture is such that it promotes discrimination, that Serbia is an unmodern society, and that therefore it needs to change consciousness in all aspects as stated here in the law on gender equality. It is symptomatic that this is the main intensity, only the violence that should have been most said here, comes only from the 51st member, and before that we are dealing with school programs, language, scientific research, private companies, reports, records, and everything else that adds to this society. We must all repeat in any case that Serbia is a society that does not accept any violence and that Serbian culture and tradition is a Serb family that will reject violence, but there are individual cases, not collective responsibility for what is listed here as prejudice, which is rooted in Serbian culture. In that sense, I think that these solutions are not good, that these additional solutions and that these laws need to be developed, in order to respond preventively, but to specific cases of discrimination and inequality. Serbia is a country that promotes equal opportunities and will always, at any time, condemn violence with its culture, its ethics and morals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6971	Thank you. The 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6972	Thank you, Chairman. I'll read one piece of the text that just came to me. The High Council of the judiciary on the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination – but what it says here applies to one and the other law – says: “The High Council of the Judiciary hereby informs the competent ministry, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that it fully supports the objections raised by the Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian Language of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The High Council of the Judiciary also considers that the legal text in general is anti-constitutional and contrary to other already existing legal solutions, and therefore proposes to the National Assembly either not to adopt the law, or to withdraw it from the adoption procedure and return it to the promoter for further work." Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, a man is primarily a social, social being, a man is a sexual being, but he also has his own national provisions. To be happy, he has to know who he is, where he's from, and he has to know what the values that make him worth repeating. To know what a virtue is, he has to lean on the one before him. It's certainly not a parent one and a parent two, it's values that his father and mother passed on to him, and the values that their father and mother passed on to them, and they wouldn't even be without a national determination, and they wouldn't be such good people. It's not a retrograde past, that knowledge and acceptance is the only right way into the future. Simply, with the Serbian, simplest dictionary, left-wing, so if you want the communist word, clearly and loudly, I must say after this debate - I have not heard a single good reason to convince me to vote for these two laws. I will vote, unfortunately, against the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6973	Thank you. By amendment, Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6974	The Honorable Chairman, Ms. Comic, after a brief discussion and a game of words, I am a little in the dilemma whether I should address you as Madam Minister or Madam Minister, but Mrs. Comic, perhaps it is the most correct thing to do, to remove all the misunderstandings. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, our fellow citizens, today we have two very important topics that we cannot literally separate from each other, which we must view as a whole, together. Serbia is today a democratic country, a country where the spirit of tolerance is nurtured, a country that cultivates a spirit of equality, a country that encourages diversity, a country that stands firm in the position of a firm and determined fight against all aspects of discrimination, but a country that retains the positive assets of its tradition without which it would lose part of its national identity. Serbia today is a country of freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of the media, even when the media once knowingly deceives the public, knowingly spreads the lies, even when these media, once instructed by individual political circles, satanize the president of this country and his family. We are proud today that we have built a society in which all our citizens are equal, in which all our citizens are equal, regardless of national or religious membership, regardless of political or any other orientation. I would stop here and ask one question, first of all to the competent authorities – is the family of President Vukic excluded from this non-discrimination story? Is discrimination allowed for members of the family of President Vukic? Are members of his family citizens of the second order? Is it allowed by lying to satanicize members of his family or, worse still, target as legitimate targets of any criminal clans? For months back and years, I can say freely, the media under the control of the opposition or, more precisely, Dragan Gilas, in a desire to distract the public from their affairs, in the absence of a political programme that would bring them to the public, and yet again and again, to draw attention from dozens of accounts abroad, from tens of millions of euros in these accounts, therefore, to fabricate lies, affairs, satanicize President Alexander Vukic's family, from the youngest to the oldest members. Under the cloak of freedom of the media, with every absence of responsibility that should exist, political reckoning is being carried out with the president of the country in one of the most terrestrial, vulgar ways, assault, Satanization of his family, his son, brother, father, mother, etc. With the impact on every man's most sacred, on the family, on children, members of the former regime, they are free to say, seek to stop Serbia's progress, to turn Serbia off from the path of economic prosperity led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and all in desire and hope that one day he will return to power and continue with the practice that was interrupted in 2012, which is filling his own pockets at the expense of the state and on the expense of Serbian citizens. Don't the children of Alexander Vukic have the right to a normal life, like all the other children in Serbia? Don't Danilo and the militia have the right to normal youth? Doesn't little Vulcan have the right to a carefree and normal childhood, as his peers in Serbia do? Is there an end to the haranguism being carried out over the family of the president of the state? These days, he is again on the target of the media under the control of Dragan Djilas Danilo Vukic, where by publishing some false statements by certain cheerleading groups, the son of the president, so Danilo Vukic, is being targeted as a target for criminal clans. Unlike Dragan Gilas, the Serbian Progressive Party is fighting for citizens' affection with work, results, a political programme, and we can proudly say that any children we have never mentioned, that anyone's children have never been abused for political purposes. I'm sure there's a man in this room who knows who they are and what they call the children of Dragan Gilas. We only remember last year, when that same Dragan Gilas cried and threatened because his children were scared when they heard something on the megaphone that the whole of Serbia knows, which is "Gilas, thieves" and similar phrases. Gilas's children are not guilty because their father was the megaphone of criminal groups, because their father kidnapped 619m euros from Serbian citizens, because their father brought that money to Mauritius, Hong Kong, etc. and his children have a normal childhood and so should be, but this should apply to all other children in Serbia, including children in President Aleksandar Vukic. Finally, once again, I would call on the authorities to deal with this issue, because every child in Serbia, regardless of who his parents are, has the right to a normal and carefree childhood, i.e. normal youth and normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6975	Thank you. National MP Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6976	I think it is good to have a constructive debate today on two very important laws, the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I agree with previous speakers that our society is a society that cherishes the values of tolerance, mutual respect and respect, respect for diversity. Also, we all agree and strongly condemn any form of discrimination, any form of inequality to individuals, either according to certain target groups. I'm going to briefly mention a few groups in our country that are being discriminated against. One of these groups is members of the Republika Srpska Army and police, who fought with honor, courage and honesty for their people and the state, who fought bravely to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Yugoslavia. The Law on the Rights of Fighters, War Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War, and members of their families do not recognise their honorable struggle, or the law makes it clear that the Krajina fighters were only recognised by 27 April 1992, so on the day the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was created, and after 27 April 1992, they were essentially people who waged some kind of private war. It's absolutely unacceptable, inadmissible. I think it is important that this injustice be corrected and that members of the Republika Srpska Army and police are recognised as participating in a double-term war, since 1990, until 1997, when the peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, of the Western Sreme within Croatia was completed. It is also important to put an end to discrimination concerning the classification of fighters in categories. The current situation is unfair because it is said that the first-class fighter, a war fighter with military participation in the war for over 200 days, is a second-class fighter with a participation in a war of 45 to 200 days. Currently, the law states that the fighters who fought in Kosovo and Metohija if they have 60 days are first-class fighters, and the fighters who fought in Republika Srpska are the first-class fighters if they participate in the war for over 200 days. I think it's important to correct this injustice and to have two categories of fighters -- first-class fighter, a fighter who fought for over 45 days, and second-class fighter is a fighter who fought for up to 45 days. We also have another category of citizens who are discriminated against. It is about pensioners from former Yugoslav republics living in Serbia. In Serbia, according to the Social Security Institute, 124,000 pensioners from the former Yugoslavia, including 100,000 pensioners from Croatia and BiH and about 24,000 pensioners from Slovenia, Montenegro and Macedonia. What are pensioners from the former Yugoslavia being discriminated against? Well, here, I'll give you a few examples. In fact, last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has twice given financial aid of 4,000 and 5,000 dinars to pensioners of the PIO Serbia Fund to help overcome the effects of the virus's coronary. Unfortunately, pensioners from Croatia, BiH and other countries created in the former Yugoslavia did not receive that financial assistance. This year, too, the government has decided to grant special financial assistance of 60 euros to all pensioners of the PIO Serbia Fund, but unfortunately this time too will be excluded from the pensioners in Croatia and BiH. I believe that this is discrimination and that the government of the Republic of Serbia should pay 9,000 financial aid from last year and this year, when it comes to paying 60 euros, to pay it also to pensioners from Croatia, BiH, Slovenia, Macedonia, Montenegro. Also, I think it is important to allow pensioners in the areas of the former Yugoslavia to have the right to have pension cards, to have the right to discount in trade chains, to have the right to discount when they buy at other institutions. It is also important to allow these people to be entitled to vouchers, that they can have a discount when going to the spa, to treatment and any other types of vacation or any other accommodation capacity. These people feel bitter, they feel unsatisfactory, they feel discriminated, and I think it's important that this injustice is corrected by these two categories of citizens. I'll just briefly mention the third category. Of course, it is about expelled Serbs, citizens who have been expelled from today's Croatia, the Federation of BiH, to finally resolve their key issue of integration, the issue of housing, and to allow 26,000 Serbian citizens with refugee tickets to receive, as all full-time citizens, financial assistance. Last year it was 100 euros. Unfortunately, they didn't get them. This year it's 60 euros, twice 30 euros. I think it's time those 26,000 citizens who have refugee tickets also got those 100 euros from last year and got 60 euros this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6977	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Culturous – Historic Heritage and Incentives of the Development of Sremical Carlovers. You have received amendments submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information on the Bill of Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as from the Government and the Proposer's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3), I am opening a search of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Culture and Information submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the government accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Culture and Information submitted the amendment to Article 15. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Jadranka Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6978	Mr. Orlic, thank you for giving me your word. I will support these amendments to the proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage when it comes to Sremski Karlovci, which was submitted by our Committee on Culture and Information and on which we had the opportunity two days ago to hear and indeed one extremely broad and rich and meaningful exhibition by Mr Igor Mirovic. I'm sorry we didn't make it, the many people who wanted to discuss this item on the agenda. I'll at least try to repeat something and restore my memory of everything that's important when we talk about the Sremsky Carlovites. I am particularly pleased, and I think it is very important that I underline this second part of the bill, which also refers to the incentive to the development of the Sremski Karlovci, because it seems to me that in this unique way today, in our time, in a modern way, we approach everything that is our obligation to protect the cultural and historical heritage. So, protection, concern, revitalization of what is our obligation, but on the other hand, and all that we can do today, what we heard here in the discussion, and what is already being launched, as is the docking of the Danube, as is planned to build high-speed railways from Belgrade to Novi Sad. I see that the team of people who worked on this bill really left nothing to the case and that it is in a broad port designed, truly, truly with deep consciousness, not politically, but with a deep awareness of how important this historic city - the Sremski Karlovci is to our history. I'm trying to sum up everything I wanted to say and give space to others to turn around, but when it says Sremski Karlovci, that rich treasure of our cultural and historical heritage, we can start at least ten sentences first. In the Sremski Karlovci first, first. So, not only high school, not just printing, not just the first painting school, not only if you want to install the first x-ray in the Balkans, thanks to Dr. Laza Popovic, but what I would like to say and what is important for us artists and for our theatre and for our theatre history and the first theatre performance that was in 1734. A year earlier, Emanuel Kozaczynski came to Sremski Karlovci to be a professor and rector of the so-called so-called "Sremski". Slavjano-Latin schools and he initiated the first performance with students and professors, so the school performance is practically, with a very interesting titled "Traedomedia". They say there are tragedies in every comedy, and there are comedians in every tragedy. This is something that is important for us artists and allow me, I will skip a number of things, but here I am also obliged as a musician and as an artist to inform the public that and what applies to the immaterial cultural heritage, when it comes to Sremski Karlovci, and that it is important in the work of our first educated musician Cornelius Stanković, who studied in Vienna and who for the short life of his 33 years of life, has devoted two years of his life to the work in Sremski Karlovci, from 1855 to 1857. So, two years of capital work when it comes to music art and related to the Serbian folk church singing that was passed on by the oral route until then, and it was Cornelia Stankovic, working on it for two years, who for the first time recorded this unanimous singing with a modern notation and went a step further. So, harmonized this unanimous singing into 17 manuscripts of the chorus singing collection and left us with an immeasurably immeasurable legacy that happened in the Sremski Karlovci, which is the base for all that was the development of our musical culture. Of course, this was continued later by Stevan Mokranjac, and Nenad Barački, and Branko Cvejic, but I asked Mr. Mirović in an informal conversation that perhaps even some cultural and historical mark concerning Cornelia Stankovic deserves today in modern world space within this law and that we also repay Cornelia Stankovic in this way in Sremski Karlovci. Let me just pay tribute to academic Dejan Medakovic, who initiated the adoption of this law 30 years ago, such an important one, and in the context of the centennial of his birth, Mr Medakovic warmly supported young artists. I almost don't remember a show I didn't see when I was a rookie. Perhaps because his son, too, was our eminent conductor, Pavle Medaković, my dear colleague, also began when I did. I am obliged to pay a great honors to our academics from the House of the People's Assembly. The Sremski Karlovites are bright and bright as a city for which I would like to receive the epithet of the city museum, reminding us of who we are, where we are and when we are, and it makes us able to be proud of all this, but it also obliges us to go through our ancestors and keep everything that they have left us in the amanet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6979	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6980	Thank you. Dear colleagues, after a colleague, there's nothing else to say. I've reported several times before this amendment, but at the very least I'm going to support all of what my colleague Jadranka said, that it's something very important. I think we need to give support to everything that's happened, to all our people, and that's what Mr. Igor Mirovic, Prime Minister of Vojvodina, has been talking about. All in all, the right thing and I expect, of course, that we will adopt this bill here in the Assembly. Once again, I wanted to report back to several amendments, when Minister Comic was there. I wanted to say certain things. Now that that's over, we'll keep doing something else. Thanks again. I will support the bill spoken of by Mrs. Jadranka.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6981	Thank you, Mr. Miletic, for both discussion and understanding. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change of Planning and Construction – you have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Katarina Rakić, Goran Pekarski, Goran Spasojevic, Adriana Pupovac, Nikola Vojinović and Milosav Milojevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Goran Pekarski, Goran Spasojevic, Adriana Pupovac, Nikola Vojinovic and Milosav Milojevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with a correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. He has a word on behalf of the promoter, Katarina Rakić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6982	I thank you, Mr. Orlic. First of all, I'd like to thank the government for accepting one of these amendments. I just want to say that the amendment is supported by several members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'd just like to point out once again what we talked about here yesterday on several occasions. The Law on Planning and Construction, as such, or by this name, was first passed in 2003 and I will again responsibly confirm what I said yesterday, I believe that this was, in fact, the worst law ever written. I find it interesting that Mrs. Comic is sitting here today, and I believe that when I explain now why I say so, she will be able to confirm even though she has never been involved in planning and building. In fact, this law at that time had things in its provisions that were biting each other. In his first work, in his first provisions, the Law on Planning and Construction in 2003 allowed those citizens who built their buildings without a building permit to legalise their facilities, even prescribed a procedure under which they can be legalised. In subsequent provisions of the same 2003 law, construction, or construction of buildings without a building permit, is a criminal offence sanctioned even by a prison sentence. And then I could interpret it in two ways. So maybe someone didn't see it, didn't notice it, and what could the citizens do? Citizens were able to hurry as soon as the law became legal, to rush to the municipality's counter to illegalize their facilities, or if they do not arrive to legalize, then I guess, by the same, or the same provisions of the law, they will arrest them. Or maybe, I can think in a different way, that law was then written for certain investors who might have taken advantage of the opportunity while the law was in force to succeed in some of their illegal facilities might legalize. But as it was, we can still see today. What is crucial is that the 2003 Law is 2009. Constitutional court down. Once again, the law that is in force today was passed in 2014, and this law, by the way, has brought a lot of good effects. Some of the effects are that Serbia today ranks ninth in the World Bank's Doing Business List. Otherwise, in 2015, we were 188. So in just a few years we've skipped 170 positions. Also, the good effect of this law is seen by the number of building permits. What I really wanted to achieve this amendment, which my colleagues from the Committee supported, is about punishment. The law itself, or the amendments to this law that we have proposed, which we are going to adopt today, are not extensive, and are also trying to correct some of the consequences that are here, even 30 years in the first part, we are trying to extend the time limit for the use of permits. I would invite the citizens of Serbia, all those who built their facilities by 11 September 2009 to check, and they can do so most easily by typing the number of their plots on the RGZ site, to check whether they have a valid permit for their facility. Many probably didn't do it out of ignorance, didn't do it, didn't get their own permits, so this way we're doing it, so we're extending the deadline to another four additional years, although I think we may not have to do it, but we're going out again for something that may not have been done in the past right. The other thing we want to do with this law is extend the deadline to 24 months for making plans for those municipalities that haven't done so since 1993. The amendment we have submitted may be the first time we have imposed a penalty for something that has not been respected, here I can say, for 30 years, and we have suggested that it be a very symbolic punishment and that a criminal penalty of 50 to 150 thousand dinars for the responsible person of the municipality that does not bring those plans within the scheduled time. The amendment provided for the names of those persons to be published on the Ministry's website. However, such a thing is not allowed, so here I say with a fine of 50 to 150 thousand dinars this amendment has been adopted and I thank you once again for it. Those presidents of municipalities who don't adopt plans in the next 24 months will be punished, so here, if nothing else was a motive, here I am asking you to at least be motivated to bring plans for your municipalities over the next 24 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6983	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6984	Since co-worker Rakic explained the article on which we are discussing the amendment, I will only say that although penalties do not usually encounter public approval and are not recommended, one such important law, or substance regulated by Article 3. The draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction imposes the need for this amendment. The local self-government unit, i.e. local self-government authorities, is said to regulate planning and construction issues with the planning documents. These are life-threatening questions for those who do so. We recently talked about the necessity of discharging local self-government of excessive documentation. It is precisely, with the planning documents and the repressive measures provided for in this amendment that the bill itself is gaining seriousness and weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6985	Thank you. Mr. Miletic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6986	Thank you. Dear colleague Katarina has already said everything. I really support Mrs. Katarina, because what she said is the fact that there are a lot of municipalities that didn't agree to all their acts, specifically regarding the Law on Planning and Construction, which was passed in 1993, 1998 and 2003, and I think it's the right thing to do and it's normal to have some sanctions in some way that these people have to work their jobs if they haven't worked. Most important of all of this is about construction and all that needs to be done, I will once again say what Minister Momirović said yesterday, that there will be a collector for waste water and sewerage in the municipality, coming from the municipality of Svrlig, which means that it is one of the right things, that it is something that is the future. Once again, I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our president of Serbia, who has worked with all of us here, but has also led what is needed, which has not been done so far, one more of the important things is to solve the sewerage network, save waste water, collectors. It will now work, as Minister Momirovic said yesterday, will be working in Svrlig, will be working in Alexinac, will be working in many more municipalities and that is a big deal. Once again, I would like to thank the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who leads us in the best way and this is the only and only place it has to be. That's why I'm going to support all these bill proposals, with a certain reserve for certain laws. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6987	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday 20 May 2021 with a start at 18.00 a.m. as the Day for Voting on Points of the 12th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I thank all those who participated in today's debate, representatives of the government, amendments and MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-20-0.u6988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly in Election Day exist if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 178 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on secondary education and education. I remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, in general. I am stopping the vote: total – 181, for – 180, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Middle Education and Education. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – 165, against – six, abstention – one, no vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – seven, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – seven, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – seven, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – seven, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – six, did not vote – 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – five, did not vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – four, did not vote – 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – 173, v – six, did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the national MPs of Sandra Christmas, to Articles 1, 6, 14 and 37 and to Articles 3, 4, 6, 10, 13, 27, 36, 37, to the title above Articles 51 and 51, 53, 60, 65 and 68. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on gender equality to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – 166, versus – four, abstention – one, did not vote – 14. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – five, did not vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – five, did not vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 185, for – seven, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II above Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above-Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment, the MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - five, did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - six, did not vote - 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - six, did not vote - 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Chapter III above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. In total - 186, for - six, it did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment, the MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - five, did not vote - 181 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - eight, did not vote - 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. In total - 186, for - six, it did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment, MP George Komlenski submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - seven, did not vote - 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - seven, did not vote - 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - seven, did not vote - 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. In total - 186, for - six, it did not vote - 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, no vote 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, no vote 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 35 and Article 35 of the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4 above Article 38 and Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – eight, not 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Section 5 above the Articles 39 and Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 6 above the member of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment, the MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, no vote 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of section 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 8 above Article 42 and Article 42 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, no vote 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Section 9 above Articles 43 and Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 10 above the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment with correction was filed by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – eight, not 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 11 above Article 45 and Article 45 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 13 above Article 47 and the name of Article 47 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 14 above Article 48 and Article 48 of the Correction Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the Sixth Amendment, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, no vote 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Head 7 above Article 59 and Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 62 and 62 of the amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 63 and 63 of the amendment, with corrections, was filed by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above the 64th and the 64th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, did not vote – 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VIII above Article 65, the name of the Member 65th and the Article 65th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above the 66th and the 66th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – six, no vote – 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – five, did not vote – 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – seven, did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on gender equality in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 163, v – 10, abstention – two, no vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the bill. 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Recovering of CULTURE-STORIAN Inheritance and Incentive to the Development of SREMICAL CARLOVERS Before moving to a Decision, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become an amendment to Articles 10 and 15. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovac, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 187, for – 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 3, with a correction, which was submitted jointly by MPs Katarina Rakić, Goran Pekarski, Goran Spasojević, Adriana Pupovac, Nikola Vojinović and Milosav Milojevic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 186, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 185, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 185, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on planning and construction. The sixth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and APPROVAL OF THE ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT, ELECTRONIC IDENTI-FICTION AND SERVICES OF CONSERVATION IN THE ELECTRONIC BUSINESS. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 184, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. The seventh item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 185, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you he's a member of 16. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Accordingly, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 184, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We now approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 185, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the bill. Before moving forward, I remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled and uniform search of the proposals for the law in point. The 8-10th agenda, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only the draft laws in general. I also remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The eighth point of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 184, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. The ninth item of the agenda. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on subways and city railways, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 185, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on subways and city railways. The tenth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on the International Periodic Transport of Passengers by Buses (Interbus Agreement) and Decision No. 1/2011 Joint Committee established by Interbus agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers by buses, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 182, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Interbus Agreement on the Interbus Agreement on the Interbus Agreement on International Intermediate Transport of Passengers by Buses (Interbus Agreement) and Decision No. 1/2011 Joint Committee established by Interbus agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers by buses. Article 11th item of the agenda: List of members of the REGULAR BODY OF THE ELECTRON PUBLIC AUTHORITY Council. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 8(2). The Law on Electronic Media, members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, elects most of the votes of the total number of MPs. I also remind you that the Law on Electronic Media found that each authorised candidate for members of the Council proposes a list of two candidates, and the National Assembly selects one member from each list. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal from the competent committee of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council are Milorad Vukasinovic and Goran Eror, on a proposal from the competent board of the AP Assembly. Since only one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can vote for only one candidate. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Milorad Vukasinovic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. Final vote: total – 187, for – 161 did not vote – 26. I am putting the motion to elect Goran Eror as member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. I am stopping the vote: total – 187, for – 28, did not vote – 159. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Milorad Vukasinovic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body on a proposal from the competent board of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and wish him success in his work. We've come to an end, unless you want to move on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of all points, but before I say this sentence and before you go, let me just give you one more piece of information, which is that I called the 13th session of the First Regular Session for Tuesday, at 10.00 p.m., with the proposals of the I.D., on the protection of business secrets, and, with a proposal for an emergency procedure, the Act amending the Excise Act. I am saying this because next week's last week of the Spring Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, which runs until May 29th, which means we will begin the session on Tuesday and end on Thursday, and this, as you know, on the last Thursday of the month, with parliamentary questions asked by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Finally, according to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 12th session and thank you all for your hard work.
