ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10964	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask all Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 16 and 17 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that she has been invited to attend and attend the session, Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information. I'm asking MPs' groups, unless they did so immediately to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 202, and in accordance with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. I am opening my Rules of Procedure a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Culture and a proposal for members of the National Council for Culture. I would like to, before we move on, just to point out, now that I'm going to have to run our delegation on the Interparliamentary Union, I'm just going to ask you one more time and remind you, to finish today's work on the seventh session, that means we're going to finish what we're talking about now and the debate on the details of the laws we've ended up in principle. After that, it would be a voting day, so that today we could conclude the 7th session, and according to the proposals made and after the entry into force of the referendum law. We are working on the RIK election on Monday, and if everything is planned, Tuesday would be a session of the National Assembly dedicated to constitutional amendments. Now I'd go back to what we started. Does the representative and rapporteur of the committee responsible, Sandra Christmas, president of the Committee on Culture and Information, want a word? In preparation that was written, and I trust the secretary general, you're the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10965	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose before that, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, Minister of Culture and Informed, would still like to receive a word, as someone who is an official promoter and resolutions and appointments, i.e. the appointment of new members of the Cultural Council, and I would ask for it, if you would allow me to come forward and let the Proposer take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10966	Thank you. The word is, Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10967	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Dacic, honourable Members of the People, Mrs. Christmas, I thank you for giving me the advantage. Today there is certainly a topic of great importance for the entire area of culture in our country, and this is certainly the choice of members of the National Council for Culture, since this important body of mandate expired in 2016 and has not been established since then, or has not been educated in full capacity, nor has it been possible for a minimum of its functioning. If, in the shortest lines, I should present what the National Council for Culture is, it is certainly the most precise formulation that is highlighted in the law, that it is a professional advisory body that is educated in order to provide permanent professional support for the preservation, development and dissemination of culture. The main role of the National Council for Culture is primarily to analyse, to give an opinion on the state of our culture, and to give suggestions in creating cultural policy and development proposals to improve cultural performance. In addition, this body is considering, giving an opinion on the proposal for a Culture Development Strategy and giving an assessment of its implementation. It then proposes criteria for gaining the status of prominent artist, i.e. prominent cultural expert, also gives the National Council for Culture an opinion and procedure to award a reward for promoting cultural creation, suggestions and suggestions for regulating other issues in the field of culture. The Council also offers suggestions and suggestions on inter-resorship cooperation, i.e. cooperation, for example in the fields of culture and science, education, urbanism, architecture, international and other forms of co-operation, and does of course other tasks in accordance with the Cultural Law. Otherwise, let me remind you that the National Cultural Council has been introduced into our system by the 2010 Culture Act. I'm not going to explain to you in detail what the legal provision at the time looked like, that regulated and constitutionalized the choice of advice and its role, but I want to remind you why it obviously didn't work out well. So, the council should have as many as 19 members, they've been elected for five years, and it's really quite complicated to process and propose candidates and the subsequent election of candidates here at the National Assembly. After the first term of office ended, it was 2016. A procedure for selecting a new calling has been initiated even when proposing candidates, of course, due to this very complex complicated procedure that I have brought to you and I have created a problem because of the inability to agree on a co-ordination committee of art associations around joint candidates. At that time, I served as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, almost daily I received letters of opposition and of one, and other associations, where everyone claimed that the candidate who proposed and whose election and process of proposing was valid, and that these others were wrong and thus the situation was really complicated and it was not possible to come up with a single list of the National Assembly's invitations and then give such hot potatoes to MPs on whom all the criticism of the public and ultimately ended up on you, and not on promoters who apparently did not have unique views at the time. And in such a complicated situation, we were able to choose from those 19, six candidates, you remember that, but I'm saying, the choice is less than a third of the candidates proposed, it practically meant that we never chose the new National Council for Culture and that the council was not set up. But, I mean, with us, such a legal profession has decided that we technically have to resolve these six elected members today in order to join the new election. So this first point is actually just a formal nature so that we can access the legal procedure now. I say parliamentary elections have been called, but it is important that we have a brand-new member today. You remember that at the end of October last year, we proposed amendments to the Law on Culture, which applied, among other things, to the election of members of the Council. I think we have significantly improved legislation. There's still work to be done and could be, of course, much better, but it's important that we get the National Cultural Council, so we'll see what can be improved in the future. The procedure for proposing candidates has been simplified. That's why today we have candidates ahead of us. Accordingly, the Council now has 11 members from different fields of cultural activity we choose them for four years and resolves them, of course, on a proposal from the Minister of Culture for the reasons provided for in the Law on Culture. It is now comprised of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the National Archives of Serbia, the National Museum of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Cinematheque, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Matica Serbian and National Councils of National Minorities through its co-ordination body. I think this body will now be much more effective and I have no doubt that we have received a good quality of the proposed candidates, but it will be decided by you in your discussions and by your vote. Each of them proposed three candidates, together with a reasoned assessment of the value of the contribution to national culture for each individual, and so did the national councils through their co-ordination bodies that gave two common candidates here in the summary list before you. I say, the Minister of Culture, or myself, I had a difficult task of reducing the list and proposing these 11 before you, of all really great candidates. I'll read their names, which is the final choice that lies ahead of you today at the discussion and voting. These are Zoran Vapa, from the list of candidates proposed by the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, Željko Markovic from the list of candidates proposed by the National Archives of Serbia, Goran Vasic from the list of candidates proposed by the National Museum of Serbia, Dr Vladimir Pistalo from the list of candidates proposed by the National Library of Serbia, Nebojsa Kundac from the list of candidates proposed by the National Theatre in Belgrade, Dr Nevena Dakovic from the list of candidates proposed by the Yugoslav Cinematheque, academician Ivan Jeftic from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Department of Arts, academician Zlata Bojovic proposed by the Serbian Academy of Science and Art Department of Language and Literature, Dr Isidor Belakovic proposed by Matica of Serbia, Andras Urban from the list of candidates proposed by the National Minorities National Council and Dr Suzan Kujundzic Ostić, who also proposed with a smaller national candidate advice. The National Assembly, of course, you know it better than I do is being declared about each candidate individually. I say because I stressed that it is not easy to choose candidates from all the great candidates, to meet all the criteria that the public today insists on. And yet we did, and I managed to take care of both genders' representations, because in the proposals of the National Councils of National Cultures of Three Candidates, there was always one less represented in gender, so in translation it means there was always one woman, but in the end it's hard to choose from all those 11 lists to choose women or men and match the percentages equally and to fit the quality of the proposal, but I think we've managed to do that this time. I'm saying that the principle of gender equality is respected when putting together a final list. I am also pleased that our traditional institutions, and Matica are Serbian, and SANU, which these days are subject to public criticism because among the new candidates they did not have the representation of women during the final election, this time we have their proposals and these are respected cultural representatives from these two important and traditional institutions. I assume you have the biographies of all candidates. You tell me if you want me to read them or if you're familiar with their résumés. I suppose in preparation for today's session that you've made an effort to do it yourself. Dear MPs, I invite you to support all the proposed candidates on this list that is in front of you. It's really about our distinguished, cultural MPs and artists. This is evident from their biography, professional reputation and expertise are at a high level and they have already made a great contribution to our world culture through their lifetime. You can see that all cultural areas and candidates are represented, and with the undeniable credibility of the candidates, a firm guarantee that the proposed composition of the National Council for Culture over the next four years will fully fulfil its tasks, but also justify the trust that you will give them. Do I have any regrets about the proposed proposals from all of our cultural institutions? Yes, of course I do. I think they could show a certain width in their proposals, and that there is also a somewhat significant name from a culture that would represent an independent cultural scene, but in a conversation with the Director of the Republic Institute for the Study of Cultural Development, he gave me his intention that after the election of the National Council for Culture in the coming weeks he set up a advice that would deal with the creative economy in culture and where he would find his place as a prominent member of this second sector of culture, which is also extremely important for the development of our country's culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10968	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. In accordance with Articles 27 and 88, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The President of the Committee on Culture and Information, Sandra Christmas, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10969	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Culture Minister Mrs Gojkovic and your assistant, an esteemed associate, has indeed little to say behind you after such a truly detailed explanation of the National Council for Culture, or proposal. I'm just saying that culture has been waiting for you for a long time, and I really do say that with great seriousness, given that we have witnessed that over 10 laws have been passed over the past year that concern really some of the most basic things that have practically been regulated by the area of culture that has been behind us for years, however, I must say, devastated. It was an extraordinary pleasure here to explain each of the laws that you have proposed and one by one to edit culture in the way that we have truly earned it as a country. For that I sincerely thank you and hope that your work will be practically married to these results in the future and that together with you, of course, with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with our President Alexander Vukic, who have practically made it possible for culture to be spoken of in this way today. That's what this budget was brought in, says the previous budget that was made last year. So culture took that place it deserved in the Republic of Serbia. I would also say that everything concerning certain technical matters relating to the Committee on Culture and Information is respected. Therefore, from the Ministry of Culture and Information on 29 October 2021, the Committee received a reasoned request from the National Assembly to discharge six members of the National Council for Culture, selected by the Decision on the selection of members of the National Council for Culture at the session held on 14 February 2019. So, when we were also considering the April of this year, the Culture Act, with a special reference, we talked about this topic, and we really agreed that this body and how it might have somehow been relieved in terms of a number that might have been too massive and focused on absolute efficiency. I think that's exactly what we're proposing, and that's what we're going to get, since, I suppose, that the colleagues you mentioned as proposing institutions have chosen best among themselves, and that's what leaves me in the deep belief that through the National Council, we are now going to get a very good mechanism that will further improve all aspects of cultural life in the Republic of Serbia. In view of all this I have said and I must say that the members of the Committee on Culture held at the session, they were absolutely complex and supported this proposal, and I pray and colleagues whom I absolutely assume they have met with every biography mentioned by 11 of these members. If they have questions, of course, I suppose the minister will answer about each biography individually, but I would like to tell you that the Committee on Culture has unanimously accepted this proposal, and I am proposing the same for our children to my colleagues from the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10970	I also thank the Committee on Culture and Information. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The first word has a representative of the MP group Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party, the People's MP Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10971	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected Deputy Prime Minister of Culture with an associate, respected MPs, this body is one of the most important strategic institutes to create a way of development, preservation and establishment of the culture of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, it is extremely important, because it contains a large number of different people with large biographies that will contribute to this body's reflection in the sense that all this unity of diversity that we possess, which is in fact the greatest cultural heritage not only of the state, but of the Balkans and of Europe, will be presented representatively and therefore the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will be able to support this proposal in a warm way. We look forward to having indeed among the biographies of all candidates an impressive reference, as we are particularly pleased to have representatives of national minorities and those who deserve it not only because by birth they are members of minority nations, but by their biographies, their references, they deserve to be part of one of these national councils. Also, we are very pleased that after five years and this body will have full capacity to monitor everything that the Ministry of Culture has started, especially after coming to this position of our former Parliament president, Minister Maja Gojkovic, who has indeed since she took over culture, can speak as a national MP, but also as someone who deals with the culture of national minorities, in any way shows that care for the overall cultural wealth of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is given a great primate compared to the previous period and that it becomes a focus of interest and of our entire society. With this in mind, it is very important that, let's say, what the ministry is doing is still stronger and more intensively continuing, and it is about decentralisation of culture. Here I think, first of all, of that project "Towns in Focus", which allows many cities within the state of Serbia to enrich, modern, restore their cultural infrastructure, get those quality facilities that are necessary for the development of the overall design of cultural events and to be citizens in the opportunity to enjoy the contents of cultures that are also enjoyed here in the capital or in other major cities. That, on the other hand, means a lot. Especially for young people who are from the edges of the state. It means for them to have the opportunity to mature, to have their knowledge, their knowledge of the culture of co-existence, of a culture of common life can also be impeled in their environments. Of course, we are particularly pleased here that for the first time in the Ministry of Culture, we also have a minister’s adviser who comes from the order of minority nations and who is actually helping the ministry and the minister to see all that breadth and complexity of all the needs of all minority peoples, minorities and regarding their cultural ascension. Our country, as a country that has a truly great cultural heritage from prehistoric times, and especially in the periods of our most significant rise, has shown all the breadth and cultural and every other ascension, has the opportunity to do it again and thanks to these strategic considerations and thanks to these increases in the budget, is well on the way to becoming so. And that's very important because we're finally going to be able to contain everything called subculture, which has come to the surface over the past decades, and that threatens to threaten the full understanding, understanding, understanding of culture, cultural content, high-profile cultural ascension in those generations that mature and shape their consciousness about what culture means, what cultural heritage means, what it means to improve what we as citizens of this country and what we as a people in this country have on us. To be honest, a few years ago, I had the opportunity to be a guest in the United States, along with other MPs, where they took us to their most important museum to show us what the United States of Heritage of Culture was. There were a lot of exhibits there. But nothing was more than 200 years old. Everything that was more than 200 years old came from Europe and 80% from the Balkans. So, that our space where culture is, where it is the origin, where in every sense culture and civilization and Europe, but also the world, was dominant, and that we, because of all of our unfortunate circumstances, have allowed others to recognize us by some other things, and not by what is our most significant reference, which is the greatest power of our peoples, which is culture, is cultural heritage. It is therefore very important that we also have this strategic body, which is made up of the most relevant people and representatives of institutions, which will show that width, so that we have again, as we once did, in the 20th century or 19th century, that precisely through these cultural exchanges, cultural proseness we get to know each other, that, let's say, today, as was then, the Cultural Society of Abrasevic from Kragujevac is the main ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the Balkans or, on the contrary, it is hosting other ambassadors from other countries and from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, etc., because these are the most lasting, most qualitative and significant ties. It is also very important that we recognize our values, that we do not wait for others to recognize them, because at every opportunity when they can try to represent them with their values. I am saying this, and as proof of this, I will state what our common cultural identity of the Balkans represented, and what we couldn't recognize and understand and interpret as common, until UNESCO told us so that we could all join together, the Balkan countries, to say that it is a common cultural heritage. Here I am talking about gains, as one of the particular importance of European spirituality and culture which together, for example, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, and Croatia, and in part of Montenegro have protected in UNESCO, and in fact they represent our common cultural heritage today. Such examples or such cultural goods have a great deal to do in the future, and we need to work hard to ensure that these kinds of cultural heritage are fully protected. Or, we don't have to wait for the hardware researchers to come to us, so they can tell us that we have our Homer in the Balkans, that they found the first half of the 20th century in Novi Pazar and in the White Field epic singers who are superior to Homer's singing, that they have found in Avdo Medjedovic a superior and more complex epic singer than Homer, author of "Iliad" and "Odyseus", but we ourselves must recognize those pearls of value and label them as something that is ours, something that represents our spiritual and cultural treasures. In the end, we do not have to allow everything that is valuable from cultural heritage today to be sought through museums, through the archives of the world, that everything that has been worth in a thousand years of history is now stored in various treasures from Western Europe, across the East, to America and all other countries, but that we have kept our values, cultivate, promote and represent the world if authentic indigenous values of our Balkan peoples, especially our countries as central states, and as the space that has always grown a culture of co-existence, where peoples connect, where these values in this process of diversity produce such cultural riches, such cultural permeations that do not exist anywhere in Europe and should always be an example of the new cultural order of Europe and the world. Once again, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will strongly support this proposal and look forward to all that it will produce, as they support and, as it points out in every way, that this government and this ministry have done very much and are working for a common culture, but also for a culture of recognition, representation, protection of the heritage of minority peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10972	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10973	Thank you. Dear Minister with assistant, co-workers and fellow MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on Culture of 10 May 2021 have brought some changes concerning the way and the selection and appointment of members of the National Council for Culture. I would like to remind you that the National Council for Culture is a professional and advisory body which plays a role in providing permanent professional support in the preservation of cultural development and expansion. According to the current amendments to the Law on Culture, the Council has 11 members from different fields of cultural action, and is elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the Minister of Culture. The main role and primary tasks of the National Council are to analyse and give an opinion on the state of culture, to give suggestions in creating cultural policy, to propose how to improve cultural activity, and to give an expert opinion in the process of awarding cultural creativity. Based on all this, it can be concluded that the role of the National Council for Culture is very important and important. In general theory, culture covers all the liquids of civilization, the formations created by human activity, the set of knowledge, beliefs, traditions, history, the behavior of the people, and as such forms the basis of human society. In its programme, the SDPS specifically put the accent on developing a platform for culture. Among other things, this platform highlights the importance of preserving from the forgetting of the entire cultural heritage both material and spiritual, as well as the systematic regulation of cultural policy through legislative regulations. This is what the important strategic document adopted under the Law on Culture is all about, and it is a strategy for the development of Serbia's culture for the period from 2020 to 2029. As the basic principles of the Cultural Development Strategy, the following are set out: the protection and care of national culture, the protection of the cultural rights of national minorities, the even involvement of vulnerable groups in cultural life, the protection of cultural heritage, the creation of culture as an economic potential and a very important issue - the decentralisation of culture, i.e. the broad availability of culture. It is you, the Honorable Minister, who pointed out that it is the ministry's duty to make all cities and municipalities equally enjoy good performances, wonderful museums and exhibitions. On this occasion, I would like to commend all the efforts made by the Ministry to make culture available to everyone, regardless of the size of the place they live. Here, and as an example of good practice, I would point out the city of Prijepolje. Recently, as a member of a green informal parliamentary group, along with other colleagues in a pre-poljski area study visit, I had the opportunity to attend and open the event "The Days of European Cultural Heritage", which you have actually opened, Minister, and thanks to this very cultural event, a small town of Prepolje has become the center of cultural events in Serbia. Thanks to projects funded by the Ministry of Culture, the old and beautiful building of the House of Culture in Prijepolje will receive new ruho, more modern, and most importantly, will cover the story of the importance of investment in restoring the devastated homes of culture that were once the site of cultural events in small areas, but also the centres of cultural literacy and education. Thus, a small town, Cacak, will bring a flattering title to a representative of Serbia's culture. On the basis of this, we come to the conclusion that, in addition to the will and desire of local municipalities in Serbia to develop the city's culture and cultural spirit, a great effort and work is needed and a constant search for projects that can help. Based on an analysis of the needs and possibilities of cultural development in the Republic of Serbia, they are set out as priorities for the development of personnel and infrastructure, international co-operation, the promotion of the role of culture in the development of society, i.e. how to improve culture and its role in the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Many answers to this question are found in greater isolation for culture and greater funding of all relevant cultural institutions. In the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's culture platform, mentioned at the beginning of the speech, an important segment refers to a stable material state of culture, saying that the basis for funding must be from the state budget, but that state legislation should provide positive preconditions in terms of tax relief for donors, benefactors, or to order state corporations such as the State lottery, energy, oil industry, to gain part of the purpose of financing culture, which is also the developed principle of financing culture in the EU. The good news is that the budget for culture and information in Serbia for 2022 is higher than this year for two billion dinars and largely refers to cultural institutions, and in the context of project financing, particularly film production. If the number is enough for everyone, it's not. But what's important is that there is a continuous increase in investment in culture. It is necessary to calculate how much money is allocated to imports of cultural production from other countries and how much our cultural industry earns from exports, because I am sure that Serbia has all the resources needed to be a significant exporter of cultural content. Just one reasonable management should work to ensure that cultural activity becomes a serious business activity that brings serious profits and that is why we must not cheapen it. Also, the question to be addressed by the Ministry of Culture and which is recognised as important in the strategy of cultural development is the question of young people, how to create a new audience in the 21st century, how to attract young people to traditional cultural institutions in the era of digitisation, to draw them away from pills, social networks and games, but also not by having to, but through play and enjoying to teach them that the real beauty of art dating is in this direct way, i.e. through direct contact. Multiculturalism is the wealth of a country, and Serbia's advantage lies exactly in this, in this intertwination of the East and the West, because such a culture is rich precisely because of colority and diversity. In one of my previous speeches, I quoted Rambo Amadeus, who spoke of freedom of choice of man, the choice to be uninformed and uncultural and that very freedom of choice today comes full importance when we live in an era of Internet, cable television, in a time of great opportunity, and therefore we choose, but the role of the state must be even stronger in the cultural demarcation of the people. A healthy nation, among other things, is a healthy spell and a healthy cultural food for which we must feed our spirit, and it must indeed be a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10974	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Jelena Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10975	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister Gojkovic, Mr Jokic, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's agenda point is for me, as well as for the cultural esnaf that I represent in this high home, extremely important, but is also important for all citizens of our country and our country's culture, because by choosing the National Council for Culture we finally get a high advisory body, whose task is to continuously provide professional support in the preservation, development and expansion of culture to the National Assembly, the Ministry of Culture and Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to analyse and provide an opinion on culture, suggests a course of cultural policy, proposes ways to improve cultural action, participates in developing a strategy for cultural development, but also proposes criteria for gaining status and determines the status of prominent artists, i.e.e. experts in culture, as you are the minister yourself, in your opening address and cited. The description and weight of the tasks that lie ahead of this Council show that it is necessary to sit in it after the amendments to the Law in culture, which meant reducing the number of members from 19 to 11, to sit 11 magnificent, 11 minds of serious knowledge, education, talent and integrity. Eleven individuals who will be the point of relying on their advice and trust to all authorities when it comes to improving culture and cultural policy. The key words that this Council should represent are continuity, independence and ambition that should mean a precise scan of the situation of culture in the country, which both the Council and the Government and the citizens, the whole society, will motivate common efforts to devote ourselves more, as a whole, because only if we are extremely precise in the analysis and perhaps a more self-critically stricter, can we get out more, we can do better. We artists know what efforts are being made, how much investment is necessary in the development of talent and progress in artistic expression, and therefore I can freely try to animated and motivate the future Council to work in the best interests of culture and art in Serbia, and therefore also in the best interests of citizens, especially young people, new generations that are coming, whose cultural identity, which can be closely linked to national, due to globalist trends and socio-political developments, can be seriously endangered. We are aware that the National Council for Culture has not functioned for years, that the last registered activity of this Council was in 2016, and that in the previous two years it has never been elected until the end, and today, in addition to the proposal of new members of the Council, which the Ministry of Culture is responsible for members of the 16th and 16th Culture Act under the obligation to deliver, we also have before us a proposal for a resolution of six of the 19 proposed ones. It is not for me to enter the causes of not functioning this body, but as an artist and citizen, a consumer of cultural content, I believe that we have had to make more efforts to achieve this body's continuity in work and to ensure that it is independent of political influences and that we do our best to remove all political and other obstacles, if they existed, and it seems that they have, as soon as this Council has not functioned and has not been elected to the end. Given that the Council today, I assume by the decision of most MPs, will be elected, I point out that it is important that, as you yourself said, Mrs Gojkovic, this highly advisory body is finally and we get and allow it to function uninterrupted, because the politicisation of culture must not take over the primate of public good and public interest, which culture is or at least should be. When we discussed amendments to the Law on Culture in April and July of this year, I pointed out my own personal position that concerned the very way of proposing members of the National Council for Culture, which meant my concern that the institutions of culture in the Law were specified as the legislators of the National Council for Culture, would not include members of the independent cultural scene, which were previously proposed by representative associations. The law now obliges cultural institutions and Council members to do so and thus leaves room for members of an independent cultural scene, potentially perhaps deliberately bypassing, thereby further opening up the space of stories of politicisation of both the advice and its choice, which at least in culture, as I said, should not be. Finally, my concerns came true, as can be seen from your opening presentation, as well as from your interview for "Politics" on 9 August this year when you yourself stated, I quote, that according to the suggestions of the members who provided cultural institutions to the ministry, you realized that the proposing institutions had no need to make proposals regarding an independent cultural scene. As an artist who entered parliament right from an independent cultural scene, who decided to try to infiltrate and contribute to improving the status of culture and art, I'm afraid that an independent cultural scene and a very large number of artists and creators in our country create and exist, pay taxes and leave their works to their country there are not enough instruments to create and change their fate. It is also important to underline that representative associations representing artists are citizens' associations and have received their status representative from the Ministry of Culture, and are also a significant part of our social and cultural corps. It is certain that the intention of the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development for the Establishment of the Creative Economy Council will contribute to a better coverage of the independent cultural scene and its representatives, although I believe that it should be considered in the next amendments to the Cultural Law, if any, or in the new law on culture that you have declared necessary to bring, and with what we are all here agreeable, that representative associations are again included in the selection of members for the National Council for Culture. When we look at the list of members of the National Council for Culture proposed ladies and gentlemen to their biographies certainly and absolutely deserve to be part of a high advisory body and give confidence that they will responsibly and securely perform their tasks and roles, and all in favour of our culture and its survival although, as you yourself have said again, I would be much more relaxed that on the list of proposals I can see more prominent names of an independent cultural scene, which, for example, are not the employees of the proposing institution. For example, someone like the painter Mr. Cile Marinković or the names on the list of motions for resolution, such as the writers of the giant Mr. Dusan Kovacevic or Prof. Dr. Svetislav Christmas or, for example, presented in the culture sector by Mr. Zivorad Ijdočić, who has helped many artists through his working life extremely. My hope is that the Council will also play a significant role in consulting the Government, the Assembly and the Ministry of Culture, especially when considering and deciding on funding cultural activities. I mention the financing and investment in culture because within the same session three days ago, we adopted the Budget Law for 2022, and I want to point out that my vision of the budget can be considered subjective, given that as an artist in this Parliament's assembly, which represents the interests of culture and cultural workers, I always look at the figures that culture and its MPs will be supported in their efforts. There are numerous financial solutions in the Budget Law to contribute to a better living standard, strengthening the economy, including raising wages and pensions in the public sector, raising the amount of minimum earnings, numerous capital investments, and investing in health. As it is said, the budget has been created optimistically and cautiously, and in this sense I want everything to go according to plan in the coming year and to achieve the desired but announced results. Personally, I want good results in all fields, of course, and my own, but above all, the good results of our country and society, because I live here and here, regardless of the many opportunities to stay on some distant meridians, and for this reason I am persistent, perhaps even boring, because I am committed to financing culture, for someone's tastes probably and too much, especially if we take into account the global circumstances and timing of the pandemic that everything can, just can't facilitate plans and realization. In the Budget Law, the funds defined by the culture and information sector amount to 14 billion 770 million dinars, with a percentage of the total expenditures of 1.717 billion at 0.86%. In the amount of money that's 900 million dinars more than in the rebalancing we've recently confirmed, but at a significantly less than 1.01%, as defined in the previous two rebalances. In my previous presentation, I have touched the help of the culture sector at the time of the pandemic defined by Germany and the United Kingdom and the comparison with such rich countries is absolutely meaningless, but let's say the difference in the aid defined by Germany 960 times the one defined by us, while our GDP is only 63 times smaller than Germany, not 960. The difference in these relationships can be seen as a difference in our understanding of the importance of culture and of the creative industries and investment in them. The estimated 900 million dinars more than in the rebalancing is a significant amount of money or about two billion more than in relation to not the previous budget of last year, but is not of crucial and vital importance for the strategic development of culture and creative industries because someone malicious can say that the redistribution in the culture sector is, as the people say, a surplus from hollow to empty and while such malignancies are being denied by a significant increase and by investing in culture they will be loud and perhaps louder. For example, France has defined four billion euros, they say, never again with the finding that they have saved culture in difficult times. In the United Kingdom, artists' associations address the government and parliament and require a more significant increase in cultural funding, as the percentage of cultural separation in the United Kingdom is 0.2% of GDP, which is below the European average of 0.5%. So despite the assessment of the Oxford Economics, the proper investment of the culture and creative industries will recover five times faster than the entire economy of the United Kingdom and more than all financial services, the PIO together, independent artists and there demand a better position. It is also interesting that the cultural and creative industries contribute £13 million to the United Kingdom's economy every hour. So, despite these statistics and estimates of experts, as well as a fund dedicated to the recovery of the culture of the United Kingdom, which amounts to £5.7 billion of free artists and creators feel that they are not sufficiently supported, especially in pandemic conditions. So, the fact is that culture and the creative industry can contribute extremely to any country's economy if it invests properly and significantly with a clear strategy that implies raising the cultural level of the nation, and in this respect I am sure that the idea of establishing the mentioned advice for the creative economy, if realised, will be of significant help. If we look at the GDP assessment that we define towards the culture and information sector, it is now included in GDP growth correction in 2022 at 0.25%, which is, as I mentioned, below average by European statistics. For the region's largest culture, around 1% of GDP separates Hungary, which in particular amounted to 1.75 billion euros in 2020, which is 180 euros per capita per year and this is little if we take into account the poll conducted by Ipsos Mori in England, where 69% of respondents considered it necessary for their local self-government to spend £50 per citizen per week on cultural content. If we look at the disseminatings for culture by the main population in the region, we have a large margin for manoeuvre and space for further investment in the culture sector, given the fact that Croatia will allocate 43.32 euros for culture in 2022, while Northern Macedonia, despite the pandemic in 2021, managed to allocate 29.5 euros per capita. According to our budget, we will single out 18.29 euros per capita in 2022, but expecting good results from the economy in the following year, I believe that my words and analysis will affect and motivate the government, and perhaps most of all, the Ministry of Finance to place cultural and creative industries in a number of places on the pedestal in future, taking into account statistics that say in European countries that culture and the creative industry can and how to contribute to the state's economy. I would not, on this occasion, analyse the redistribution of the specific culture budget, but I must point out that the constant increase and investment in film art is extremely commendable, as well as the return of national recognitions for the contribution to culture and prominent individuals, although I consider it to be a difficult choice and may be unfair to some who are not chosen because the identified funds of 257 million dinars are sufficient for 20 national recognitions to contribute to culture. I would like to take the opportunity to appeal to the Government to consider identifying more funds to increase the number of selected ones, it would be optimal for at least a double number, at least in the pandemic's time, because in the years in which the recognitions are not allocated, and for our society of valuable individuals who have entrusted our society and the state with the great works that they have created and which, as far as they are able to create, the number of individuals has accumulated and it would be fair to strengthen the chances and desire of the state to reward and deserve in this way. Also, I would like to take this opportunity and appeal to find out statistically how much at least an unfavourable number of creators in the sector of culture and art because the data vary from hundreds of thousands to several hundred thousand directly and indirectly involved in cultural life, and it is very important to be aware of the number of participants in our country's cultural life so that the National Council for Culture has a clear idea of what and who in its analyses is considering, but also how many individuals should be represented and supported in creating cultural life especially if we take into account that there are a large number of families that exist from working in culture and art. I am convinced that the adopted budget in general will meet the expectations and objectives set in 2022 and lay the foundations for further investment and further growth and development, although I personally believe that the expectations of cultural Members and promises received were much higher when it comes to cultural separation than in the adopted Budget Act. I would not like my presentations to act as some kind of cry for the share of 0.2, 0.3, or some of the terms of GDP for culture and cultural projects, because in the end, speaking of the allocations of funds for culture, I as a member of the cultural esnaf and all of us MPs are here and we citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to seek what is common good, because in the end the money belongs to all and I am sure that we cannot be wrongly interpreted in any of the findings. As part of these efforts, I would like to invite all cultural deputies involved in the cultural scene of Serbia, as well as all consumers to define more actively and organised the objectives and means necessary for their achievement, which, unfortunately, I must admit, has often not been the case. All of the above should serve as a potential guideline and the future National Council for Culture, and in particular, I would have been able to identify a part of the increased funds in future budget allocations for culture, which I have mentioned, as I could have mentioned, towards the project of returning culture to school, which we have already discussed here at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, which you yourself pointed out as very important, and this could be through a potential, cultural and artistic, or sports section to organise itself into three or four thousand schools, which is the exact number of which I do not have with me now, where academic young educated people would be employed, kept in the country, children and young people would have been provided with an additional kind of cultural ascension, and for this all should be an aproximative of about 50m euros. Following your work, I am convinced that yours, too, are a respected minister, and mine, as well as the views of all fellow Members of the people, on the same, on the good side, when it comes to culture, because suma sumarum, teamwork and quality discussion can certainly help achieve the ever better results. Regardless of perhaps malicious comments from political inexperiences, the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information, whose head you are at, is indeed at an envious level in the past year. If we consider the revision of the cultural institutions, which you requested as the first culture minister in the last 30 years, if I'm not mistaken. Then, the launch of projects of decentralisation of culture, such as the Serbian Capital of Culture, Cities in focus, then the completion of the preparation of the European Capital of Culture of Novi Sad project, and many other good legal solutions, decisions and signed agreements that will certainly contribute to cultural survival and development. My colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group and I will certainly support the list of proposals for members of the National Council for Culture, regardless of mine, and your suggestion, that in this or similar bodies, in the future, there will be more room for some of the greats of an independent cultural scene, which would contribute even more to a better understanding of the real needs of all cultural deputies in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10976	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10977	Thank you for your presentation. Just a few sentences to say and look back on your exposure and explain some things. When I compare the state of culture and the separation for our country's culture, I try to find Europe, in our closer, or any further environment, a country that has developed and that in recent history could have equally developed its own state, economy, and, of course, to invest in culture. When I say that, I mean the fact that I can't find a country that's been under economic sanctions for 10 years. And in these efforts to compare this state and state in the culture of the Republic of Serbia and our efforts to raise more money, I'm trying to find a country that's bombed and still can't find a country like that. So I couldn't possibly get the strength to compare the Republic of Serbia, the lost years we've had, the problem we still have unique throughout Europe, which is the abduction of one piece of our territory, with the Great Britain that didn't have those problems, so she could only commit herself to developing her own country. The last war they participated in was a war for the Oakland Islands far away from them, but they did not suffer sanctions or political, economic, nor did anyone intend to bomb them at all or in any other way punish them. So I think that the superhuman efforts of this government of the Republic of Serbia, but also of President Alexander Vukic since 2012, when he took over as Prime Minister, vice-president and Prime Minister, and today the president of the state who shows one significant intention to put our country's culture in the same level as health care, education and care for the state's infrastructure. It's really not easy. I am very grateful that for the first time in recent history, we have managed as a state to allocate considerable funds to the budget, to the culture budget and to inform and now to exceed that unofficial European percentage of 1%. We managed to get even more money for culture and information from last year. Only for culture is over 1% and then a small amount for the development of information in our country, and this RTS will not be financed as well as last year. I wish I were the Minister of Culture and Information in a European state that only dealt with the development of culture and national identity, and didn't fight for the naked survival of the lives of my country's citizens, and that every 10, 20, 40, 50 years in the history of the 20th century did not literally start building from scratch. But then again, I may have a greater privilege than them to lead the very resources of culture and information and to take steps at a pace this big, large steps for Serbian culture, perhaps small ones compared to Great Britain, Sweden, France, Italy and some other countries. These are big, big steps for us and don't forget that 1% of the budget foreseen for culture was made in the year, after a year and a half of the battle against the worst honours that the world and our country have covered in modern times, and this is certainly the fight against the crown of the virus, where it was equally invested in the construction of hospitals, the purchase of vaccines and medicines, and the same way it was seen and corrected the relationship to culture in our country. Why I'm quoting Great Britain. Somehow, you took the great Britain to compare us, but yet we are one of the few European countries, and I suppose they are, even though they have left the EU organisation. I don't know if they worked cultural institutions during the pandemic period, but we were recently in the only five countries where theatres, galleries, cinemas were opened, with certain measures. I think we're the only country that has put into a priority group of vaccine artists, to enable them to return to the scene and perform their cultural creations live. So we're one of the few, as well as people who do information. Help through representative associations we managed to pay off everyone for whom we received the data, even those who did not receive it in the first round. Not to the extent that the UK pays its independent artists, but we are not the UK, we are the Republic of Serbia with all those personalities that we carry through our history. I don't criticise your way of being exposed, but I want to say that as I travel around the world and talk to the ministers of culture and information, I see that they only had a mission ahead of them to improve and build some new magnificent museum and to have the ease of that approach and huge budgets. The only thing that would have happened to me through their exposure is what we would have done if we hadn't had these foot plantings through history, which is all the wars that were fought in our country's territory, and I say that tragedy we had as a bombing, so that it wouldn't have stopped after the bombing by taking away some of our country's territory, and with the care of artists in this part of Serbia, we also care about cultural identity in KIM territory, we care about people who are engaged in culture in the territory of KIM, institutions of culture and we are concerned with the protection of the lives of ordinary people living in KIM territory, who are struggling not to destroy every trace of Serbian civilization, in that southern part of our country. So much for us and artists or for the percent help of artists across Europe compared to our 1% as 50% separation in a country that didn't have problems like ours. Certainly, remarkable are the biographies of these candidates in front of you. Exceptional biographies also have those who have not entered this narrow round of elections, which are cultural institutions which are legally owned to propose and propose these members, so that they should be used for different forms of their contribution to the adoption, let's say new cultural development strategies and the adoption of new good laws to improve. We have to face it, here, someone has said it, I think it's Christmas, as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, that in recent history, it has not happened that the Minister of Culture and Information is constantly coming and defending some law. What does that tell you? Well, that Serbia actually has tens of years of heritage of former Yugoslavia laws and that we still have those old laws, completely surpassed in Europe. Let me tell you, in every attempt by my own, I work with all the artists, and I don't write the laws alone with two officers, but with people who represent their own professions from their artistic work, incredible resistances appear when every attempt to modernize something. Which is interesting, not from people who are outside that artistic circle, but from a large part of people who are currently engaged in culture, and they don't want any change, and it's nice when they go and watch different plays, I don't know, on the West End, and they don't wonder by what laws their theatres operate by. That's nice there, but don't come to us. In many areas of culture, that's how I speak openly because, it's a favorite and every time I talk to you, I like to quote Margaret Thatcher and that scene when she talks to the queen, when she tells her - everyone's attacking you, it's got to be something terrible and it's not pleasant for you, and when Margaret Thatcher says, no, why do you say that, because if I don't do nothing, so I don't even exist, nobody would even criticize me, you're doing this, you're behind your views, so let them criticize you. So I'm glad to read in the new that some associations said that our budget is 0.3% of what I don't know, and I know that it's over 1% and let them speak, because it's exactly visible and it's going to be seen next year in budget spending, because 0.3%, I don't know how they got there, or it's over 1%. More than 1%, and I congratulate all Serbian citizens that the Republic of Serbia has succeeded with great effort, with great separations for all other segments of our daily lives more than 1% for culture and information and step by step, as our country develops, as we are politically and economically stable, will be more and more. Last year we raised the scale to 0.97%, over 1% this year. Step by step, as long as no one punishes us anymore, so we don't get bombed, we don't get sanctioned, and we don't get kidnapped by the state. We're only dealing with culture and the development of the state. We build roads, hospitals, schools, invest in education, and then we measure slowly with our environment, and then beyond. The promoters had no intention of bypassing an independent cultural scene. Here, you singled out two personalities, Mr. Dusan Kovacevic was already in the previous meeting, in the first term a member of this National Council for Culture, painter Cile Marinkovic, when France opened at the time of the crown, opened the possibility of working cultural centres and their cultural institutions in France, I went to make it official, mark and open the exhibition of Mr. Cilet Marinković as the beginning of the work of the cultural centre, and of course they are particularly respected. I say, their appreciation is reflected in the fact that the President of the Republic of Serbia has both given a special recognition for the contribution to the national culture of the Republic of Serbia. Let me tell you something, I'm a minister who spends 60% of his time by opening my door to every artist in this country and talking all the time, talking and adopting their proposals, suggestions whether they're officially members of any council, commission or not. I think all those who aren't malicious that we're doing a great job together. When they enter my door and the doors of the Ministry of Culture and Information, no one asks anyone about anything but what we can do for you, or for culture. We have excellent co-operation with the film industry group, which organized themselves in the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, with the new Association, the music group that was recently established in the Chamber of Commerce and together we do all the laws that follow, of course, when we skip and we manage to overcome all these obstacles that we encounter in an attempt to pass modern laws. The analysis will be given to us by the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development, which is one of their basic activities and, if the Council so requests, it will come to the meeting of the National Council for Culture, and when I suggest it was also a question of who wants to accept it to become a member of the National Cultural Council. You know, there's a lot of people want to, and then when someone offers it to them they're afraid of this rush of part of the public that immediately starts to attack you, they insult whether you're on this side or on the other side, because they don't have a vision that someone can be a member of the National Council for Culture and chooses parliament, and that he's only interested in the contribution to culture, but someone puts you right away. Today is not easy at all, it's easy to go out and yell in the streets, but it's not easy for you to define yourself to cooperate and to contribute to a culture without a street, but in an institutional way. But I don't go into suggestions because I think they're great. An independent scene, I say, finds its place in the Chamber of Commerce of Groups, but certainly in this future Creative Economics Council announced by Mr. Marko Krstic and sees him having talks with artists of different spectrum who want to engage in his own particular way, if he does not succumb to pressure to be dragged by a sleeve or insulted tomorrow, and that happens. It happens and we all see it every day. I say, much has been done, after ten or eight years, national pensions are reintroduced. Carefully select the commission, because the greatest pressure will be on people who are on board who will determine who to grant a national pension to. And that's what happens if we call the person XY, because we think it's great in its area, and that she could have good archaics at the end of her decision who gets a national pension as a big national recognition, and then after a few hours, that person calls, says thank you and says, "I don't think I can handle that pressure." This means the public's otium to attack you when making any decision, because someone on the football stands thinks he plays football better than he plays, someone watching Novak Djokovic play, then loses a match, then goes down on Novak Djokovic because he thinks he's out of the chair drinking beer and eating popcorn better playing tennis than Novak Djokovic. That's why people need to be found who want to, have integrity, believe in themselves and the decisions they're going to make on the assignment of national pensions. As for education, yes, I hope that you will influence Minister Branko Ruzic, as well as I, and that we will be able to expect the co-operation of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education soon. Because, defeating it, I saw a percentage somewhere, I don't know who was doing the research, I was distracted, only 0.8% of young people visited the territory of the Republic of Serbia last year in general some cultural institution. Only 0.8%! So, without a family of one, without moms and dads taking the kids to museums, galleries, children's theaters, exhibitions, shows of any kind, no art history, possibly in education, can't expect big shifts, because family can't really switch everything to education, something has to happen on the weekends. Education is certainly a key, because you can't deal with culture if you don't at least learn about art history some of the elements in the most basic form. We even have some people working in cultural institutions, so when you mention a name to them a little older generation, and it has marked the culture of the 21st century, they don't know who it is. Imagine what it'll look like in generations behind us. The young generations are slowly profiled to learn only what they have been identified for and will not have that wider picture and wider education that makes one man an intellectual. I am convinced that we are on a good path, that it is not so bad to be an artist in Serbia, because I see that many renowned artists, who have spent their lives and their career abroad, have begun to return to Serbia. There's a Vladimir Pistalo, who taught in America, and I decided to come back and accept him as the director of the National Library of Serbia. There is certainly one Stefan Milenkovic, who cannot complain that he has not achieved a good career as a violinist, is completely satisfied with his life in the Republic of Serbia. I am currently having talks with two prominent musicians of our origin who are abroad, who have spent their entire lives abroad, who have only come forward and wished to return to the Republic of Serbia and to talk about how and where they would engage. So, I say, it's not even about money, there's something about the quality and beauty of life that certainly Serbia hasn't lost, regardless of all the problems it's faced today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10978	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture and Information. I suppose National MP Jelena Mihailovic wants a brief replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10979	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your response. You're always present in this high house, it's very important. You yourself remembered the findings of colleague Sandra Christmas, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. In the past year, we've had a lot of discussion about culture, which I think is very important for our society, for our country, for cultural Members, for everyone who participates in cultural life and for consumers, or citizens. It is very encouraging that you have a clear vision, a clear picture of culture in Serbia, and then a clear vision in which culture should be developed. I always try to express my personal attitudes here as an artist, as someone who really lives here and creates. I've already said, I've had many opportunities to stay on some other meridians far away, but it's my desire to be in my country, in my country, and to try to contribute to a better status of culture and art right through the institutions. I am here, as well as my colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia Group, to give you all the support, to give you ideas, that some of them may if you agree. I'm sure, of course, as you said, the state hasn't been going through some great moments in the past 20, 30 years, but I think we should turn to the future, that we have to look ahead, that we have to compare to the better, to the best. That is why I have cited the United Kingdom and Germany as examples, for they are one of the strongest economies in the world. I think that we can only be better if we follow their results, because in the economy we have proven ourselves better, and we have proven that we can achieve good results and why not reflect part of this economic success and on the culture and art sector, which in many ways will make it easier for you as a minister of culture and for informing the work and your aspirations. I've already congratulated you several times in taking over the resistors of the Ministry of Culture, but first and foremost on the courage to take over the Ministry of Culture and Information, and especially to take over at the time of the pandemic, when global events were such that no one was easy, especially in the culture sector, because all the institutions in the world... (President: Time. I'm sorry, let me finish. I will certainly influence as much as I can, and I am sure Minister Ruzic will be open to co-operation of every kind, because besides the results of the Ministry of Education and Education prove that Mr Ruzic has, as you do, a clear picture and vision of how further development should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10980	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, National MP Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10981	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Minister with an associate, in front of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, today I will speak as an authorised representative on the proposal of members of the National Council for Culture. The Culture Act has been in force since September 2009. Before it was adopted, the areas of culture were not regulated by one general act. Its adoption created legal preconditions for the uniform system and efficient regulation of this entire area. In June of this year, changes and additions of the Culture Act were made for the third time, with the aim of comparing one part of the provisions with real life problems and simplifying certain procedures to make them more efficient. The important part of the amendments to the law was the National Council for Culture and the way it was elected, and with the aim of its more efficient and active work. Instead of 19, the Cultural Council now has 11 members from different fields of cultural activity. The minister elects one candidate from the candidate list and sets out with two proposed candidates for national minority councils the proposal of members of the Council, which is submitted to the National Assembly. Authorised candidates are the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the National Archives of Serbia, the National Museum of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Cinematheque, the Matica Serbian, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art and through the National Councils Coordination National Councils of National Minorities. The National Council for Culture is a professional advisory body that should provide permanent professional support to the National Assembly, the Ministry of Culture and Government in order to preserve, develop and expand culture. The Council analyses and gives an opinion on the state of culture in the Republic of Serbia, gives suggestions in creating cultural policy, makes proposals for development and improvement of cultural activities, participates in drawing up a proposal for a cultural development strategy and gives an assessment of the implementation. Council members are selected from the ranks of prominent and affirmative artists and cultural workers. Our parliamentary group, the SVM parliamentary group, in June of this year, when we discussed the amendments to the law in plenary, expressed its gratitude for the understanding of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Maja Gojkovic and Prime Minister, who also accepted the appeal not only of our parliamentary groups, but of other national minorities and their national councils. Thanks to this, the legal solution has been defined as proposing two members in the Council for Culture. We believe that in this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has confirmed that it is working to implement integrated cultural policies, stressing respect for both national and regional diversity, while fostering a common cultural heritage. In the process of social integration, national councils of national minorities play an extremely important role, as they are committed to preserving national identity and improving and developing cultural specificities based on the competences set out in the law. Their task is to ensure that the right to cultural autonomy is exercised and that, through social dialogue and consultation with representatives of authorities, both at national and local level, they find the best possible solutions in order to respect and apply the rights of national minorities guaranteed by law. When we talk about a common cultural heritage, we still have a lot of work to do, because you will agree that the institutional culture of minority communities is mostly left to minorities themselves and their minority institutions. On 3 November, the Committee on Culture and Information discussed the proposal of members of the National Council for Culture, which was submitted by the Minister of Culture and Information on 9 August 2021 to the Committee, together with the biographies of candidates. The Committee concluded that the proposal for members of the National Council for Culture shall be submitted to the National Assembly, as the conditions for the implementation of the selection procedure have been met by 11 members of the National Council for Culture for a period of four years. The proposed candidates for members of the National Council for Culture are: Zoran Vapa, Željko Marković, Goran Vasic, Dr Vladimir Pistalo, Nebojsa Kundacina, Dr Nevena Daković, academician Ivan Jeftic, academician Zlata Bojović, Dr Isidora Bjelaković and from the list of candidates proposed by the national councils of national minorities Andras Urban and Dr Suzana Kujundzic Ostojić. We believe, i.e. We are sure that the advice in this composition will truly fulfil its purpose and respond to all the tasks ahead of it, because it will be done by people who, in the domain of culture in their experience and accomplishments, deserve it. We are also sure that the activities of representatives of national minorities Andras Urban and Dr Suzana Kujundzic Ostojic will contribute to the construction of integrated cultural policies. I'll take a few facts from their biography. Andras Urban, as a 17-year-old, creates an independent theatre and literary workshop. Later, he formed a theatre troupe, "Ajova", which he treated as a specific, yet all-art ideological action. He graduated from the New Sad Academy of Arts in 2000 in the class of Professor Vlatko Gilic and Bora Draskovic. Since 2005, he has been the director of the Hungarian City Theatre "Deze Kostolanji" in Subotica. It is the founder of the international theatre festival "Dezire Central Station". He works in Novi Sad and Belgrade, runs art workshops in Romania as well. It sees the theater as an enlightened space, sometimes provocative action, where it thinks, speaks and organizes a specific kind of artistic reality. The play is for him the communication and other reality that exists for himself, but it comes from performers, performers and viewers. He has multiple awards at theatre festivals for best directing. One of the last in a series is the "Boyan Stupica" award. Dr. Suzana Kujundzic Ostojic graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad in the Department for Yugoslav Literature and Serbian Croatian. The Master's work on the Department for Serbian and Comparative Literature defended it in 2000. She finished her doctoral studies in Belgrade at the Faculty of Philosophy at the Department of Ethnology and Anthropology in 2016. That same year, she became head of the Bunjevac Culture Centre in Subotica. She arranged and linguistically designed ten rebel editions, worked on standardising the rebel language. In the day to vote, the SVM parliamentary group with great satisfaction and faith in the successful work of the newly elected National Council for Culture will vote for a proposal to elect the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10982	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For our children" MP Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10983	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Gojkovic and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Culture, as well as a proposal for the selection of a new convocation of the mentioned body that is extremely important for the area of culture. Article 16 The law on culture is prescribed that the National Council for Culture has a total of 11 members who elect and resolve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a period of four years. In addition to the report, we received biography and information on candidates and taking into account the fact that, through the amendments and additions of the Culture Act, we made an effort to amend the composition and way of selecting candidates for members of the National Council, the Minister delivered a set proposal to the National Assembly, as well as a reasoned request for the resolution of six members of the National Council for Culture, and they obtained the conditions to establish a new assembly of this body. According to these changes, the proposings of the National Council for Culture are expected to be the most significant institutions in Serbia in this area. By amending and supplementing the Culture Act, we will allow the National Council for Culture to work even better and even more efficiently than it did in some previous period. We were able to bring the Culture Act into line with the Law on Gender Equality, allowing for greater representation of the less represented sex, which is certainly a good thing and a positive approach. In this way, I can say freely, we prove that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, culture is high on the list of priorities and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly is willing to continue the promotion and development of our culture, which is important with the Serbian state and society in general. We have proved this through joint work just as this is being convened by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that through the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, as well as through the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic Letters and the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life, as well as through the adoption of the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Holy monastery Hilandar, the adoption of the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural Heritage of the Sremski Karlovac, as well as the establishment of the Museum of Victims of Genocides, we have shown that this is indeed the case. I can freely say that I believe it will remain the eternal legate of the SNS and President Alexander Vukic in the coming period. All of this was mainly done on the proposal of the president of the state who insists on it and to revive the memory culture, so that we would never again be covered up by crimes against the Serb people, especially in the area of the former Yugoslavia and especially in relation to all that the Serbian people experienced and lived in genocide NDH. We were able to revive the memory culture so that in the future, such things would never happen again. We can proudly conclude that this year will remain remembered for what we really did as a state in the field of culture, and that means that we have finally managed to complete the construction of the Holy Sava temple, that we have erected a monument to the Serbian state's progeny Stefan Nemanja. I think that, above all, we have shown self-respect for ourselves as a people, but we have succeeded in restoring the people's faith in power and power of the Serbian state, above all, through economic progress, through the fight to preserve Serbian vital, state and national interests, but through an adequate and effective struggle of the government of the Republic of Serbia to preserve our cultural heritage and our cultural identity. The Serbian Progressive Party is a party leading a real national policy, and that is why we have done much in the area of culture in the previous period and have implemented extremely important projects in the area, such as the digitalisation project of our cultural heritage, the promotion of our cultural heritage at international level, but also through the renovation of the National Museum, by opening the Museum of Contemporary Art. I believe that in this way we have shown society that identity and social material progress and progress can go together and the SNS will continue to do so especially in the field of culture in the coming period. We have managed to bring progress with the national omen to be a new Serbian code and to weaken the influence of the false second-Serbian elite, which is particularly well accepted as far as I can see in young people in Serbia, because their frustration is seen because of the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, because of giving state aid to SPC and the Saint Hilandar monastery, because of the completion of the construction of the Holy Sava temple and thus they revealed their true face and showed that their only goal is to attack everything that is good and what SNS does in Serbian society and that their only task is to attack both national and all progressive at the same time. It is a typical policy reflection conducted by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, and this imaginary quasi elite. Their political action is an example of the relations defeated by the winners, more specifically by Alexander Vukic, who sent them where they belong, which is on the sidelines of the Serbian social and political scene. Their aggression is a reflection of the impotence and frustration, because it is finally time to respond in the fields of culture, but also in the policy area, to the outflows of anti-Serbian chauvinism, the Belgrade circle, which does not understand and understand the needs of the Serbian people at all. Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic, Marinika Tepic, Aida Ćorovic and this imaginary quasi elite daily prove how much they are actually born and alienated from the Serb people. Every day, a part of that opposition, characterized by the political action of the former regime's parties, who are responsible for economic, political and cultural collapse of Serbia, proves that when they become victims of their own standards, their own rhetoric, they always have to blame someone else and that's always by the difolt of Alexander Vukic, but also by the whole Serbian people, because fortunately the Serbian people failed to enter their propaganda, a trap where they feel they need to be anti-Serbian in all these areas to be accepted and successful in society. The Serbian people can now finally recognise their primitive methods of manipulation. This is not just about the mere struggle in the sphere of politics and the sphere of culture, but about their pathological intention to Alexander Vukic, as patriots, who embraced the idea of progress and who consistently applied it in practice to try to put an end to it. The Serbian Progressive Party shows by its work in all areas, especially in the area of culture, that Serbia does not mean opposition to progress, but rather the opposite. We can be happy to realize that this false second Serbian elite has recalculated if they thought they could peacefully attack the Serbian people, receive money from foreigners and retire so peacefully. Other Serbian and Twitter hysteria is caused by the political children of Latina Perovic, Zarka Koraća, Nenada Canka, already calculated that the seats, the principal positions in the institutions for the implementation of sanctions against the Serb people, are the same sanctions that were sought by Djilas in Washington for the Serb people, to impose on us the mark of collective responsibility and collective guilt just like through that resolution, i.e. the attempt of the Marinica Tepic resolution where they wanted to accuse the entire Serbian people of being a genocide of the people. So to present us and lead us to a dangerous pattern, which is a dangerous pattern where we must accept collective guilt and collective responsibility for something that the Serbian people have never done. That's why they're angry, frustrated, because they see that the Serbian people will never be able to cheat again. In the twilight of their minds, they only have to figure out how and which trouble to throw away the Serbian people, because the quasi elite believes that Serbs have no culture and that the Serbian people deserve to suffer. However, just when they believed they were continuing to carry out their tasks, and from the foreigners assigned tasks, they realized that the job of bringing the foreigners to power and re-establishing their cultural supremacy was simply nothing. The time has finally come, thanks to the SNS, above all to President Aleksandar Vukic that the policy of insulting and humiliating the national dignity of the Serbian people is over. They must, fortunately, face Serbia's citizens, for them a painful fact, which is that for all Latino Perovic, academic Teodorovic, Sergei Trifunovic, they will never take place on the main course of Serbian culture, so in the future they will have to settle for the first-row screenings of Angelina Joli, in Natasa Kandic's company, and perhaps one of them hangs a secondary role in some future film achievement. I honestly don't think they're any better. I think the time has come to finally get used to some new circumstances in our beautiful Serbia, and there are new generations that, without the self-dealing complex, come true and come true, and that is a clear indication that the anti-Serbian project of culture and general politics has failed or will ever succeed. Nationalally and progressively won thanks to Aleksandar Vukic and SNS is the leader of Serbia's modern-day. I have to say that we managed to break out the idea of a monopoly progress in Serbian society, that false liberal elite, and I think it's particularly well accepted in young people. I think it's really good for the Serbian state. When we talk about culture, what makes me particularly happy is that we have an increasingly developed and more powerful film industry. Good movies and good shows today do not happen by chance, such as movies. "Spain for Soldiers", "King Petar", "Dara from Jasenovac", films on the heroic exploits of Serb soldiers in Kosharam and Paštrik during the 1998 and 1999 war acts. As far as I know, there's also a movie on the Crime Action Storm, and it's finally time we could talk about both our famous and our tragic past. Unlike today, some previous authorities have been ashamed of our past. We, unlike them, are proud of the people who have defended and built this country. So, these films do not come by chance today, as happened after 2000, there was no such disease as the biggest movie in the history of Serbian cinematography called "Serbian Film" that was launched into the world under that name and which made this very fake second-Serbian elite, with the intention of presenting Serbian society and the Serbian family as morally decadent. Nothing's changed here. It's the same team and these are the same people who want to be on the political scene today to accuse the entire Serbian people of being a genocide people. This is Marinika Tepic, Sergei Trifunović, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. Believe me, because of this pathological autoskilling approach that citizens have today and in 2012 have told them a lot. I am sure that Serbian citizens in the next elections will never again allow such an approach to the National Assembly and will explain to them where they belong, and their place is at the disposal of the Serbian social, political and cultural scene. The Serbian state is finally talking about the memory culture, as the essential point of our identity, and we can finally talk about our injuries. I have to say, we're not the only people who died in the 20th century, but surely we're the only people who've waited 80 years and 80 years couldn't even talk about their deaths. Our task is that when we talk about culture, to protect at every step and place our cultural identity and our cultural heritage, because cultural identity and cultural heritage represent a bond between us, our ancestors and future generations, and we must never give up fighting for our cultural heritage and our Serbian cultural identity, because any giving up such a struggle for one nation can be fatal. We from the SNS of that fight will certainly never give up. I want to address young people in Serbia, artists, cultural workers, and tell them that the time has come for them to be free to be political Serbs and that it is a guarantee that we will continue to strengthen Serbia in all areas of social life and that only right now in Serbia can guarantee the policy represented by the Serbian Progressive Party. I also want, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, to take the opportunity to express my satisfaction that the 2022 budget in the area of culture is never higher, which is a significant resource in that budget defined precisely to protect our cultural heritage, to highlight one project in this context, and this is a project to protect the library of the Serbian Patriarchy. I would also like to say that the budget for 2022 is realistic, developmental, and that we continue to implement important capital projects, such as research at the White Hill archaeological site in Vinca, given that I come from Lestan, a place next to Vinca, I know how important and important this project is for all citizens of the Municipality of Grocka, in general as regards our Serbian cultural heritage and how much such a project can contribute to a better tourist offer and arrival, i.e. the inflow of new investments, and thus the creation of new jobs. The funds have also been allocated for a brilliant project, I would say, which is the Serbian capital of culture, so that the town of Cačak will have defined funds from this budget in 2022 to sort out all its museums and all its theatres and will be with every city in Serbia in the future. So, in all areas of culture, incredible shifts have been made and this is a clear indicator of the serious and responsible policy led by the SNS. The Cultural Heritage Act, if I am not mistaken, correct me if I am wrong, was adopted yesterday at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and will soon be before MPs in the National Assembly. That is, I can freely say one of the most important laws for our country, especially in the context of the struggle to preserve our cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, our churches and monasteries currently at risk in Europe, which represents the anchor and cross of our people. In this way, we will show that we are ready to endure in this identity struggle for our cultural heritage, and we must win at all costs, that we must never give up this fight, because winning this fight is an important prerequisite for us to continue with economic progress and that we Serbs will have the opportunity to finally rejoice and even greater political victories in the coming period. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that only a people who have self-awareness and cherish the memory of their history and culture can hope for a bright future. To conclude, I would just like to point out that I hope and sincerely believe that the National Council for Culture will be an example of an institution that will provide the necessary support for the overall development of the Serbian state culture in the future. In the voting day, of course, along with my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", we will support the proposals that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10984	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10985	Thank you. I would like to thank Ambassador Milos Terzic for his discussion and for having done through his discussion and a little analysis of everything that has been done in the last year of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this composition and, of course, the Ministry of Culture and Information. Thank you very much for reminding you of everything that has been significantly done and those instructions that the Serbian Progressive Party is together with its coalition partners and has shown in its work in this government, which is that culture is an important area for us and for preserving the cultural identity of our people, but also for all the people who live with us in Serbia, and of course for paying attention to the specific segments of cultural heritage, which is primarily the preservation of cultural heritage to work with younger generations, it is especially in the category of developing a culture of memory. First of all, for ideological reasons, and later obviously for political reasons in that period from 2000 to 2012, the deleted memory of our country's history in that one-party system was done ideologically and the parts of history were completely hidden from our people, especially those parts that we can be extremely proud of. On the other hand, from 2000 to 2012 it was forbidden to mark and remind us of the tragedy we experienced in the latest history of our people and of course, the Republic of Serbia, as well as the people living outside the administrative borders of our country. What is certainly important, thank you for mentioning that decentralisation of culture has begun in the right sense. This simply happened in every address earlier that the minister added: "and we will deal with the decentralisation of culture", and the right way is this, the greater the amount of funds in the competition "Towns in Focus", 350 million, that is five times more than in previous budgets, and now we have repeated it in 2021 and 2022. In 2021, as many as 44 local self-governments, cities and municipalities received a large amount of funding to improve the infrastructure intended for programme implementation and culture activities in these environments. Yesterday we were just discussing this topic and, I say, this year, there's an assistant for contemporary creation with me, they're preparing already competitive documentation and, say, after 20 December, they're ready to start, this year never before, with the call of competitions, to allow local self-governments to start implementing these projects that will receive incentives and help from the Ministry of Culture. Yes, you understand, the Cultural Heritage Act is a roof law, Serbia has no law on cultural heritage, not in this form, as a large roof law that requires the creation of a law on the protection of cultural heritage, material, immaterial and many regulations. You can see by your size and matter how important that is. Here's my big request that we consider this law and adopt, if you agree, in December of the month and that we have a great legal effort verified here in Parliament. You saw, there were malicious comments because of a very unpleasant slip that happened, so you got the law without a certain member left out, the text of the law from before the public debate, but it's correct. What hurts the most, I will admit my mistake, I will not say that someone from the administration made a mistake because I never did it, maybe I should have looked at it, and when it was printed out and the government's session ended, I will admit my mistake that the text of a law that has long passed in these six months of work, but you don't give a shit that someone in the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our partners, honors that we wanted to throw out a cultural heritage in KIM territory. That we wanted it, and not those who, I think, that even the party of one who used to engage in diplomacy insisted on these attacks, and God knows what kind of disdain and demand to withdraw the text of the law that we immediately withdrew when we saw that ugly mistake that was being stolen, which caused that important question, the question of KIM status from the UN, where we have much more understanding, and moved to the European Union field. What does a man say? When I took the act of self-proclaiming a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a quasi state, what was their answer - to flee beyond the borders of our country and invent a meeting that is happening that very day and which is more important than the question of KIM, to go to another country, etc. But, well, what's the smart thing to be disgusted about? And so on and so forth, if I didn't say they wouldn't quote me then and the real point of my answer was how I don't know how to express myself politely or know. Because it's manners. When you answer them in a proper way, they insist on some small things and make of you what you are not. The point is that Serbia and this parliament will have a law on cultural heritage and, based on it, we will be able to continue to work, and no one has thought of it, if the whole law is read, and apparently they haven't read it, the autonomous provinces are mentioned everywhere. But we'll talk about it, and their concern for the cultural heritage in both Serbia and the territory of our southern province, when we have a debate here on this law. And if they were concerned, I suppose that cultural heritage law might now have amendments and additions and would not have been passed for the first time in modern Serbia's history. But, well, they weren't dealing with the law, they were obviously dealing with something else. As for the films, I thank the president of the country who at the time made a great decision when he was Prime Minister to introduce incentive measures for creativity in the area of cinematography and audio-visual action. With the help of these measures, we now have the boom of domestic cinematography -- never again recorded films, never again recorded series. Thanks to these incentives introduced when he was Prime Minister, I stress that because a lot of people in that industry can't somehow overcome those frameworks so they can't say when they're better, whether now or earlier when it wasn't, I say, an exceptional contribution to having large foreign productions that make significant films here, series, they bring money and invest in Serbia, and after that and after spending their resources, only then do they get a boost and based on these incentives they come. So four times as much investment as this incentive measure is. Today is no problem meeting Johnny Depp on the streets of our city or meeting at the "Nikole Tesla" museum of famous international stars. Today and at the moment, many film memes are being discussed that will lead to Serbia in 2022, and this has become a significant economic branch in our country, which contributes to GDP growth, which should certainly point out that with us culture has become an important segment of the growth of economic indicators in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10986	I thank the Minister of Culture and Information. Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first word has a folk MP, Amela Lukač Zoranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10987	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, since this is my first address, I'm going to ask you to have some understanding of the emotion I'm about to express. Namely, my arrival in the assembly bench marked another tragic event, i.e. the loss of the leader of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, academics Muamer Zukorlic, the mufti, whom you all knew very well and who, by his work in this assembly, really contributed to the better understanding of the people and represented his people, and the whole state of Serbia in the best way he could and knew it. As someone who has had the privilege of working with him for 17 years, I will try to justify the trust shown to me by the Bosniak people, delegating me to be one of the candidates on the Justice and Reconciliation Party list, and I will indeed make sure that the Republic of Serbia, as I said, benefits our community from all of us who in this House should work in the interests of our citizens. So I thank you for that. Today, on the agenda, we are talking about the members of the National Council for Culture, which is a professional advisory body in the National Assembly and which also provides the Ministry and Government with permanent professional support for the preservation and development of cultural expansion. Thus, members of the Council are given the authority to also assess the implementation of projects in the field of culture, which we have heard that the Ministry of Culture is this year, that large funds have been provided that can be used precisely by artists and associations that will deal with various areas of cultural expansion. As for the very proposal of members of the Council, which the ministry had foreshadowed, these 11 members we had heard of today, some of the colleagues also talked about the expertise of the members themselves, and on the other hand we had the opportunity to read in their biographies, which were also delivered to us. This speaks of the seriousness of the ministry itself, which was guided by the principle of expertise and equal representation. I am also particularly pleased with the fact that the principle of gender equality is respected, because we also have members of women who are represented in this council. As for the promotion of cultural activity, here we can say that the Ministry is absolutely open and encourages cultural creation of both the majority people and the minority peoples, because if we start from the very definition of culture, it is very difficult and define the concept itself in one generally acceptable way. Culture is a code that we learn and share, culture cultivates the beliefs and values of peoples and communities, but by doing so, culture teaches us how to develop relationships with others, with others and different ones, which is especially important to highlight. As for the Ministry of Culture itself, we can also say what is transparent and it is noted that the work of the Ministry of Culture, led by Mrs Gojkovic, or our Deputy Prime Minister, cannot be commended, because in the previous period it has done very much in the field of legislation and normative acts, and for this example is the law on museum activity, which Serbia received almost five decades later and which introduced the category of "Community Museum". As a home museum, the law provides a museum in the open, so, as is the case with the old village of Sirogyno. Therefore, I would like to delegate that other cities in our country, such as the New Market, are simply to be considered for the presentation of the city. This can be an example of the city of the museum, which provides an opportunity to present a rich cultural heritage that can be considered a symbol of multiculturalism, i.e. an obvious example of the persuasion of cultures in our country. I am also very grateful for the fact that we have had opportunities and heard, which is that culture is decentralised, that we now have a situation with the new project "Towns in Focus", where we have opportunities in different cities to present cultural heritage and culture of all communities. As the minister herself said, 35 million has already been set aside, which will help all creative creators, knowers to get incentives. It is also very important to work on the link between the modern cultural sector and the economy, entrepreneurship in culture, creating new cultural capital and values. It is also one of the tendencies the ministry is seeking and paying great attention to, which is also significant. Thus, and since I come from a part of Serbia that was famous, from Novi Pazar, which was once known as the centre for producing light confection, we can combine creatively and what is productively, meaning, creative and productive activity where young artists can paint materials, where we will get unique models that can be used to produce light confects and so on. As far as the Justice and Reconciliation Party is concerned, we would also like to commend the setting of legal bases for regulating the area of protection of cultural heritage and the digitisation of material and immaterial cultural goods. Since we live in a world where everything that is not digitized slowly, but surely disappears, this tendency is very important, because all segments need to be digitized, in order to remain remembered and part of a cultural heritage and a culture of memory of the people living in our country. Also, what is very good and what I want to praise, and as far as the ministry is concerned, is that the integration of our culture into international development flows is visible. At the same time, the Ministry encourages the mobility of artists and thus makes a significant contribution to all these young people who can present segments of their creation in another country, and thus adopt new knowledge, and can present their already acquired knowledge and experience in other countries. I also liked the announcement of the Minister of Culture, as regards co-operation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. (President: Time. ) What I would like to propose at this time is the organisation of national cultural seminars for university students and students of primary and secondary schools on the topic of presenting cultures of all peoples living in the territory of our country, for the simple reason that we very often meet other peoples who do not live in our country, and we do not know each other enough. This is the essence we should work on together, where young people from one part of Serbia will meet young people from the other end of Serbia and thus break down the prejudices that exist. This will contribute to the understanding of ourselves and to the understanding of others, which will undoubtedly lead to a more fruitful co-existence. I'm very happy to hear a fellow SNS officer talking about a culture of suffering and a culture of memory. I am also pleased that the president of this country, Aleksandar Vukic, respects, too, all the peoples living in the Republic of Serbia. He showed that the struggle for cultural heritage, which is in the focus of all the peoples, is also recognised when it comes to other minority nations in the Republic of Serbia. Thus, he showed understanding and not only respect for minority nations. As a Bosniak coming from Novi Pazar, I really hope that the country's president will continue to discuss partner relations with the Bosniak people and other peoples in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10988	We thank the People's Messenger. Congratulations on the mandate that was only verified yesterday. I'm sorry, but we really need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10989	I have two problems with this proposal. The first is that we are still replacing certain people here from the National Cultural Council. One of them is Svetislav Bozic, a man who is one of our greatest contemporary composers in the area of Serbian spiritual music based on Orthodox and Byzantine traditions, a man who has done over 200 composition works, a man who in 16 countries has made an impression and influence on his work, a man who performed his works in concert halls in Moscow and London. There's no serious explanation, and I don't think there's any reason why he shouldn't be here, but here it is. Another problem is the one that Minister Maja Gojkovic also spoke about, as well as a distinguished fellow MP for SPS Jelena Mihajlovic, which is a problem that the independent cultural scene here did not have a chance to present its people by simply presenting representative associations of artists, who are otherwise representative of the ministry's decision, had no chance to make a proposal. I'm going to try to underline it in a vivid way, for the simple reason that it's going to get even more carved in public, so that in a situation where you're able to change it, you change it the right way. You know how when Milan Knezevic, the leader of the Serb people in Montenegro, talked about proven values in literature, he says he likes to read dead writers. So today I will not mention those sizes in the independent cultural scene that are alive and which can be questioned in one way or another, but I will just say that this is how the National Council was chosen in culture at the time of Đura Jaksic, he would never be there, because he was also part of an independent cultural scene. So these are the problems I have with this proposal. The National Council for Culture is one advisory body. But you can't even advise if your culture budget is limited. In that sense, I would like to continue the dialogue I had with Honorable Minister Maja Gojkovic on the budget, and because of the strange performances about Mr Orlic's Rules of Procedure, I could not finish, and it concerns the presentation of the culture budget. It's true that 16% is bigger than it was last year. That's what I said in my presentation back then, and that's good, but it's weird that we have some other arches. No one slows down the numbers mentioned, but the slow reference system we're looking at. We had opportunities to hear that it was over 1%, but from the expenditure part of the budget, while everywhere in Europe the percentage for culture is seen in terms of GDP. That's here 0.25, as counterpart Mihajlovic just said when she was talking about this problem. It's even mentioned that compared to the expenditure part, it's not 1%, it's 0.80%. Anyway, we have a problem with that. You know how, in a globalized world, where everything is networked together, one of the greatest levers of influence and power of a nation, I don't like to say small people, but Serbs as the rest of the great people, is so-called. A soft power that works through culture. You have these forces that work hard. It is a way to beat someone and force them to love you, while the peoples who look to the future, the peoples who respect the personality of every man, and also the freedom of every nation, use the soft power, that is. a way to charm someone, win them over to love you and become a part of your world. And that's where culture is important. Because if we had bigger resources for culture, we could remind the European civilization that it was created at the Lepenian source. We could remind EU representatives that their idea of united Europe was first designed by Mitrinovic. We could visit all those who love the written word that we had one Ivo Andric, Meša Selimovic, Crnjanski, and thus best described human tragedy and human fate and won people to understand both the Serbian language and the Serbian word. But to do that, the budget has to be bigger. Now, when I conduct a dialogue with the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, since I see that she has a lot of respect for Margaret Thatcher, that "steel lady", ours, let me say "steel Maya", I always have a strange relationship. On the one hand, this is our Maya, the culture minister who introduced one huge energy, determination and made real moves in culture regarding national pensions, as far as getting people back to our country that are significant artists, as far as I and my Arangels are concerned, which is decentralisation in culture through support of local cultural institutions. That's all the things I support and I'm willing to vote for. But I have a problem with their Maya, a senior SNS official, who defends the government's decision to separate such small funds in culture, because our Maya can work and she'll only be able to work if she gets more resources to work in culture, that everything she plans to do can be done. In that sense, I have no problem with the Minister of Culture, I have a problem with a SNS official. I support the Minister of Culture to draw more money from the SNS to work in culture. In that sense, also expecting that this energy, which the minister, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, has, to continue what is said to be the previous minister, Vladan Vukosavljevic, who was in a difficult position because he was an extra-party figure, was not a highly positioned SNS official, to continue that campaign that was needed to be carried out, which is against the shameful rationalisation and reality of the programme in our media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10990	The word has a minister of culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10991	I thank you for your discussion. I must react only for the sake of the public, and as you MPs well know, that this is not exactly the case and that no one is being replaced today because I have just been persuaded by employees here at the Department of the Assembly, who are taking care of administrative matters, that I must replace certain members of the non-existent council in order to pass this second essential part of the agenda. I suppose by procedure it is. Why am I saying we're not replacing anyone? We can't replace someone when the council has never been chosen in the fullest sense and so it's not legally or legally established and these people have never dealt with what they've been chosen for. That's why I'm saying it's not true, I can't replace anyone who hasn't even been elected, and there's no body in which he's supposed to work, and he's doing the job of the National Cultural Council, as it's imagined. I respect them all, I also respect those people who were from 2010 to 2016 and those who were candidates later and those who were running, but who did not gain the trust of their professional associations. It was a general war of statements and letters and proof of who had the power to propose someone, and that's why the idea was completely disabling. My intention is to respect the laws of this country first. If the law says we have to have the National Council for Culture, then we have to respect the laws we make in this House, because the law, that dead letter on paper, is nothing in our area, this one we're talking about, and that's why we have relevant proposals here and we're going to choose them. I can agree with you, but it can all be fixed. At this point, there is great progress, we will have the National Council for Culture and that will be 11 respectable figures, which will be some kind of advisory body of the Minister, the Ministry, but also of all others who deal with culture. I hope that it will help us develop a new culture strategy, although a culture strategy has already been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which should be implemented and implemented by 2019, but I think it is time that we start working on a new one and that this culture strategy responds to the time in which we live. I say, I immediately noticed that the lack, that few of our cultural institutions that were authorized here to propose candidates, were enthralled. Did they not actually realize that they could step out of those frames so that they could suggest someone who didn't and doesn't work in their cultural institutions or that was their intention, I don't think they'd realized before that they had the opportunity to propose to someone else. In that sense, in my opinion, the Serbian Film Centre is the best answer, because they did not propose to their director or someone related to the institution. That's why we have Mrs. Nevena Dakovic's proposal, which is a professor. So we can work on it. I hope that the National Council for Culture will be elected today or in the Voting Day, I don't know when you predicted it, and we will continue to improve the law and now enter the possibility of being elected institutionally in the future and representatives of an independent scene. You've listed some great figures from our culture, from our history, if they'd put themselves in such an independent scene, we can't determine now, a century later. You say – the budget is limited. Well, all the budgets in the world are limited. How much money you get, that's a limit and in that space you get, is 15 billion like now, 14,800 or is something more, but all the budgets are limited. I say, I disagree absolutely with you, because the European way of calculating is a percentage, 1%, is so much of the criteria they gave for countries in Europe, 1% of the total budget, and that's how everyone counts it. Let me tell you, as a culture minister, as someone who has been in politics for decades now, I can be pleased that we have crossed that imagined framework of 1%, which suggests that every year, in accordance with their capabilities, the state will invest more and more in this segment and I can never forget and in what circumstances a country, such as the Republic of Serbia, has the strength to increase the budget for culture, because this country really must, the most evil or the greatest opposition that it is its own opposition, must admit we have new hospitals. He has to admit we have vaccines, he has to admit that we have a free vaccination. He has to admit that we have new roads, because when he goes and sits in the car and drives somewhere, he at least admits to himself that there are newer roads. Yes, the railways that are being built and said, a lot of things in all segments. I wish the entire budget of a country was just for culture, but it's utopia not only for our society, but for all the countries of the world. I say, 1% is a huge success, and I'm the one who's not pessimistic, and I never say that something is just that much, but I say great, we've been able to cross 1%, and you'll see next year, if there are no unforeseen circumstances of global proportions, we'll have even bigger. As far as public diplomacy is concerned, there are big investments, let's say, in the film industry. We now have films that promote our history, but also modern films, with some modern topics that draw particular attention to themselves among the younger population, especially in our region. We also have countries that aren't prone, and thousands of people are coming and watching our movies. Cultural centres and the intention to open as many cultural centres as possible in our region, but also in the world, and one of the first to start working will be Beijing. So, intention for Moscow, for Ljubljana, for Skopje, for many others. I say, we are really trying to deal with memory culture in all segments of creation, to mark our holidays, together with the Republika Srpska, are passing the same laws. Today we did not mention that we also passed the Law on the Protection of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters, the Law on Hilandar, the Law on the Sremski Karlovci. The historic museum of Serbia and its construction, in the former railway station building, no one mentioned. It also invests 70 million to digitise cultural heritage, thus preserving and accessible everyone in the world to see what Serbia has. Thank you for noticing that I have enthusiasm and energy. I'm not a Margaret Thatcher role model, but I like to quote this sentence of hers, because you're a great politician and you're different from a politician when you're positively aware of criticism and attacks in the sense that you're being noticed that you're working, not sitting down and drinking coffee at your job, because then nobody's going to criticise you, and I guess the point is that you're being noticed that you're working, and then because you're sure about your choices, you're defending your attitudes and it's not hard for you to be critical or malicious. Thank you, and I'll take your discussion as a positive criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10992	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. We're continuing with the speakers on the list. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10993	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for me, a culture of a nation is an integral part of a national identity. To remind you that on today 1918, the Grand Podgorica Assembly decided to join or unite with the Kingdom of Serbia, with the goal of joining the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians together, all under the leadership of King Alexander, who was 50% Serb, and 50% Montenegrin, that is, when you add everything together 100% Serb. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, at that time the Montenegrin coast extended from Ulcinj to Sutomor. So, the Podgorica Assembly decided on territory and MPs from Montenegro's territory without Boca Kotorska, Budva etc. The coast, which was administrative until 1918 and the victory of the Serbian army and the release of those parts, also belonged to Boka Kotorska administratively to Austro-Hungarian, if we agree on that. I hope there's no dispute here. The Podgorica Assembly was therefore composed of delegates on the coast of Montenegro, who could only be in Ulcinj and Sutomor. Furthermore, it was not the territory for which decisions were made at the Podgorica Assembly. Boka Kotorska and those coastal municipalities were before the Podgorica Assembly decided at large gatherings in Grblja, Kotor on the accession of the Kingdom of Serbia, not the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. It is the same decision that the Sremci made in Ruma on 24 November, which was later made by the Grand Assembly in Novi Sad for Baranja, Bacak and Banat, unless I was wrong. So why am I saying this? That we, especially about culture, cannot easily leave it to non-proliferation and make a mistake made by Serbian communists, for which history and culture were only considered to be a narrow part of Serbia. We could have learned that, so let's just say I could have known all about Mother Loser, I don't know if he was a Slovenian or a Croatian peasant, and I had to know how they coronated him, etc. Otherwise, you have one in history, but let's just say I've never learned anything about the Vršačka rebellion. About Theodore Vrsacki who raised the Banatical Rebellion with church banners and icons of St. Sava. That's why the Turks burned St. Sava's bridges, sources say it was on Tashmajdan, so the Serbs in Banat see what they're doing with the saint. Theodor Vrsacki, who was the leader of the rebellion, was after the asphyxiation of the rebellion carved alive by Turks and we have never learned this in history because the history we have taught, especially the older generations, included only the history of Serbia's ropes as communists have designed it, even without the history of their provinces. What did we know about Emperor John Nenado in elementary school or high school? Nothing. What did we know about his army leader, Radoslav Chernik, who, after the death of John Nenada, founded the Duke of Sreme, some form of statehood that stretched from Old Slankamen to Vukovar? What did we learn about monasteries in Frusca Mountain, there are 16 of them, raised by Germany and Brankovici? We learned that the Brankovics are the greatest traitors of Serbia. However, after the fall of Smeder, the Brankovics were sickened, and thus culturally elevated Fruska Gora, by raising monasteries and today's most important monasteries in Frusca Gora, the Dragutins, and from the Brankovic era, which raised a dozen monasteries on Fruška gora. We never learned anything about it. Did we learn anything about the Battle of Slancaman in 1691? No, it was as if it was forbidden to learn something about Serbian victories in Serb territory. Did we learn the 1388 Bileæka Battle and the great victory of Vlatko Vukovic? Did we learn that? Of course we didn't because if we had studied then we would have known that these parts were inhabited by the Serb population and that there was also a Serb culture. We didn't even mark the victories, because somehow the communists taught us to only defeat the Kosovo Battle and some defeats we mark, and the victories, say the Battle of Slankamen, where John Monasteria with 10,000 Serbs helped the Christians break the Turks, which later led to Karlovak's peace. Have we learned anything about the village of Greece and Višniæev? Did we learn anything about Serbia's Homer Filip Višnić, who was such a blind man who carried on folk history? That is why the Greek village changed its name between the two wars to Višniæeva because Philip Višnic was buried there. When Canak yells about the Vojvodina - we don't want the geese, we want the piano, do we know, did we learn that those pirate schools were in Irig and in Slankamen? That it was also the instrument of the duchy Serbs to whom they passed history? Did we learn various customs in Srem and culture? Did we learn anything about a spoon? We know that in Vojvodina they are sensitive to the Chetniks, they say, but you don't have any Chetnik graves that the Chetniks made in Vojvodina, but that's why you have one 50 thousand made by communists and who have collected in history so beautifully, accumulated only on the history of what they thought was Serbia, which is narrow to Serbia without the provinces. So it was almost forbidden to learn that the spoon was a duchess cap and that it belonged to a chess army, a river army whose base was in Shaykash on Tisa and Danube. Right, Mr. Martinovic? We couldn't learn any of that. Have we learned anything about ancient Herzegovina? Do we know what old Herzegovina is? Do we know that Stefan Vukcic was a reaper, that the first seat was in Ilovacha? That old Herzegovina was the heiress of the Serbian Holy Sava Duchy? Do we know that it included Gorazd, that it included Fochu, do we know that it included the White Field? Do we know that that included Plevlja, Niksic, Frog, Shavnik? Do we know that it included Herzeg Novi, do we know that it included Gacko, Trebinje, Bileca? Do we know it included Kalinovik? Of course we don't know. It was one compact Serbian environment, the most Serbian part of the Serb race that also conveyed culture. Most of the gods there have been raised in the days of St. Sava. This could not be learned, could not be known, and should be known about Serbian culture, about history related to Serbian culture, about some victories and so on. Most Serbs do not know who Vlatko Vukovic is, but that is why we know who Murat is, because we lost the Kosovo Battle, and where Vlatko Vukovic beat them up, there are no great teachings about history and culture. Do we know who John Monasterly was who helped the Turks to be in battle at Slankamen, in a battle that was bigger than the Battle of Kosovo in dimensions? There were 150,000 soldiers, 50,000 Christians and 100,000 Turks. That the use of firearms, cannons and so on was very difficult to win in such a battle. We didn't learn anything about it, and we should have forgotten the culture and history outside of that Serbia, because the communists were looking at depicting Serbian culture and Serbian history with the territory they had imagined, at the Dresden Congress that it could be Serbia, that God of Serbia had done some hegemonistic incursions on itself, because it united all the territories on which Serbs, Croats and Slovenians lived, and in doing so, made it possible for them to create their national states and territories belonging to Serbs, and in the 1990s they had solved this ballast, or some agreed to resolve Serbs as a ballast, and then emptyed the territories that I believe were historically and culturally meant to belong to the Republic of Serbia. Are we doing something right now in the area of ancient Herzegovina? I don't think there are any obstacles to culturally uniting communities that once belonged to ancient Herzegovina, raising Serbian culture and Serbian spirit, etc. in the way Boka Kotorska celebrated Serbia's accession in 1918 in a very cultural way. Their representative was Bozo Vukovic, who was also an MP before World War II, so to speak, in Vienna. So nothing was disputed, everything was done by some principles, even then international law. Then Blažo Jovanovic appeared, somewhere in April 1944 in a leather coat, with a seat belt gun dedicated to supplying people with life supplies in Kotor, and then decided to add a point – Different. Under the point – Various, in a leather coat, with a stream, that would not be done by the Zemun clan, nor by Belivuk, therefore, with a stream, under threat and force. By coming armed to a political meeting, Boka Kotorska and the coastal municipalities of Montenegro joined, and the Montenegrin coast had previously been from Ulcinj to Sutomor. Now, if they want the decisions of the Podgorje Assembly out of order, then let's give them credit. I'd admit it, but on condition we get back to our previous situation. The former situation says that before that they had no Boka Kotorska and the coastal cities of which they live today, and that, since they have made a legal decision that they have never annulled, about joining Boka Kotorska and these municipalities of the Kingdom of Serbia, nice to say – stand up a little, brothers of Serbs, brothers of Montenegrin origin, let's just when you've gone to montenegrine, let's see when you're not subject to the Podgorje Assembly and those decisions, when you banish the ambassador of Serbia, let's when you want to go back to the previous situation, that Boka Kotorska is returned to Serbia, or her legal follower, which is now the Republic of Serbia. When they want to cancel some decisions, when they want to review history. That's why my pledge is that my historical memories and Serbian culture, a Serbian culture that manifests 16 monasterys, pearls in Fruszko Gora did not treat me in textbooks from which I studied in primary and secondary schools, as a work from some Serbian heritage and culture, etc. I have to admit it today, but I don't think it's enough. We must make Serbian culture not to be a culture related to the current borders of Serbia, where we are being squeezed in various ways to be as small as possible, which was Ottoman politics and German, and in particular Great Britain, that the Serbian state should be reduced to as little territory as possible. If we have already been taken territorially, not seeking and not jeopardising sovereignty, let's say Montenegro that has threatened our sovereignty has admitted that the wild state and with it has differed in our territory, while claiming that we have ridden Montenegro and denied their sovereignty. The Kapicic who said – Serbia rode Montenegro, and they started with guns and streams on Dedinje and all they saw was theirs as that decision in Boki Kotorska – I have a gun and a leather coat. The Battle of Dedinje is the most significant Montenegrin victory and the most significant Montenegrin conquest. That is why we need culture, not to enter the sovereignty and integrity of other countries, but to raise culture not only in Serbia, but the culture of the Serb people living outside Serbia, especially in these kidnapped territories. I must remind you, old Herzegovina was assigned to Montenegro in 1878 when she was four, those who never paid taxes, but Negos paid taxes for them, so now they do not recognise Russia. So, they were four nahiji, later they gave them the hills, so in 1878, give Pljevi, come on Niksic, give them Pluzine, give them Savnik etc. that 1912 and that other part of Herzegovina would be divided between Montenegro and Serbia. It is necessary to raise the culture of Old Herzegovina, not wanting to touch BiH's integrity, nor Montenegro's integrity. It is now as it is, but we have the right to historical memory, we have the right to remind the Serb brothers, the originally Montenegrins that, if they really want to undo the Podgorje Assembly, it seems to me that they were making a decision, that it should in a legal sense mean a return to the previous state. But let's not go all the way, especially when the Bokeli are upset in Boki Kotorska, but not to go so far, and I guess we have the right to what Milo Djukanovic denies us, that when we expand the culture of co-operation, and it should be spread between Serbia in the state in which it is, with all these parts, and especially in Old Herzegovina, there is some cross-border co-operation between Republika Srpska and Montenegro, to revive culture in the territory of ancient Herzegovina. It was compact, the most Serbian, in the national senses of territory and there is nothing wrong with some, say, Hungarians loving their history, their culture in Serbia's territory, Vojvodina, etc. So there is nothing disputed about Serbs not denying their history and culture, but fostering historical memories and fostering culture in space, here I suggest we go to old Herzegovina, which I kind of like the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10994	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I share your pleasure when it comes to today's session and the election of the National Council for Culture. I'll give you a few reasons why that's the case. First, we waited a long time, and you and I remember it, full composition of the National Cultural Council. You're absolutely right, in your opening statement you've given all the details behind us when it comes to this advice and the inability for it to function and fulfil its obligations, first of all by the fact that it's been in some depraved composition, I think 600 of, how long did it take to be members, and I don't have that information in my head, 19, right? I just couldn't risk whether it was 17 or 19, but I know it was much less than half, let alone the total. One thing that is very important is that we seem to think of it as a nation, which is that culture must not be the subject of political reckoning. Culture must not be the subject of politics. Culture would have to be above all that precisely because of everything Serbia has to do, because of everything that is a Serbian tradition. We rarely came into situations, as a Committee on Culture, as a congregation, as individuals, as people who cared, that we did not understand why someone was persistently opposed. Why don't you even let a mistake happen? He who works has the right to sin. You read the list of candidates, they proposed them, and I agree with you, it could be wider, they could have come out of their institutions, they had this possibility, maybe even the obligation to recognize that they should expand the list of these names, I don't believe, that it was easy to bring this list to 11 people, all of these objective circumstances, but they just didn't happen. Today we have biographies of people who, according to what I've been able to read, and I've read studioly each and every one of them, deserve trust. First, I guess, and I'm sure, they deserve it in the institutions that have proposed them as such, and then they deserve a chance from us to eventually show what it's going to look like when we finally have the National Cultural Council. It's that situation that makes me happy, because in the time behind us we had a period where we simply didn't have a National Cultural Council. There was talk here and about the funds allocated, when it comes to the 2022 budget, and I'm someone who's even so unoccupied, extremely subjectively asked 1.5% of the total culture budget. We'd all be looking forward to it, and there's no doubt that we'd be happy to vote for it and that you'd be happy to distribute that money, and surely as a resolute ministry knows who and how it should go. Simply, burdened with all that's behind us, I think we kept that continuity to pay attention to culture, which was to a good extent a situation that didn't happen and we have to look back at it. I remember, and you remember, because at that time you were the president of the Serbian Parliament, my dear colleague Mira Dragas and dear friend, who had so many appeals during a period before we had a total budget of the Republic of Serbia 0.54%, 0.56% separated for culture, and that was extremely little. That doesn't mean I want to say today that what we have today is a lot, but it's far more. It doesn't mean that I don't think that we're going to get to the 2023 budget to be far above 1% for culture, I just hope, like you, that we won't have any extraordinary circumstances that will affect, not that culture is under attack, not that culture has not been hit now. If I'm not mistaken, and you help me, we should start building a concert hall next year, maybe we've predicted it somewhere as another step-by-step that's not small. Let's not measure it through one rough math, again, nobody here is too happy or too satisfied, we're just rational when it comes to what we have and I firmly believe that we'll all be together with all of our creative ideas, because everything that's heard in this room today is in order to improve the situation when it comes to the culture of information, that is, the particular culture that we're dealing with today. Whether the National Council for Culture in which we will, hopefully, give our trust, respond to our mission, at this point I really don't know, I can hope, but I can't argue. What is certain is that when there is a determination that everything that is not done professionally punish you, then you have the opportunity to correct a mistake if it even happened. The biggest mistake would be if we had come to the end and this mandate without being determined to choose the National Council for Culture, and if in names we might have missed, even though the promoters specifically did not, in particular, not even you from the Ministry of Culture and Information, you were some, I would say, filter for everything that has come in the proposals, and did any injustice have been done? Yeah, I guess so. Yeah, I'm sure there's some kind of eminent, cultural workers, important names that deserve every honor, but at this point it just looks like this. I'm sure whoever wants to contribute finds a way. So whoever wants to do it finds a way, whoever won't, he's looking for an excuse. I wouldn't ask for excuses ever in my life, it's always been easier for me to be exposed to criticism because I was wrong, but I did something. So I really think this is an important day, that the National Council for Culture is very important and crucial and that it is good that we are within all the laws that have been passed behind us, but also within one law that is in front of us and that we are going to talk about soon, which is the Law on Cultural Legacy, that is, the legacy, which is also infinitely important, which is in its first phase, I think in the first phase, I think in the first appearance, came across the sharpest criticism about one, I would say, technical things that may have been missed, or our attitude from the soul has been passed on to paper in the way that others who do not have such attitude, are not quite able to understand it, but are looking for everything that is wrong. That's something I was talking about yesterday, which is that when you want to criticize at all costs, you always have a basis for it. You will certainly find something in this day that could be the basis for criticism. I belong to a category of people who want to believe, I belong to a parliamentary SPS group who has always made decisions and supported decisions that are exclusively for the benefit of Serbian citizens and that will be why we will support your proposal for a candidate for the National Council for Culture and in voting day certainly show our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10995	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10996	To thank you for your presentation and to repeat once again, the error of the administrative and technical which was made in the procedure, not adoption, but forwarding to you here in parliament, and it is the text of the Law on Cultural Heritage before the public debate, I repeat once again, my exclusive mistake. The minister is to be commended, but the minister has to accept that he's both wrong and I don't want anyone to think that by saying that it's an administrative and technical mistake, that he's blaming people who do administrative work. The error is not intended and in consultation with the Prime Minister, we decided to withdraw the text immediately and come up with the right text, but to repeat the whole procedure. Only someone malicious can try to score points on that. It's my fault, I admit it, and I'm happy to discuss with you the roofing of a fundamental law on cultural heritage that is making major shifts in this area. Thank you for mentioning that we will soon see everyone and hear what an idea solution for the Belgrade Philharmonic concert hall will be chosen and then we can go to the construction of this magnificent building and realize the dream of the recently deceased director of the Belgrade Philharmonic Philharmonic, Mr. Ivan Tasovac, and all of us who supported him. I have to tell the public that he talked to me a few days before he died about the concert hall. I hope we'll all be happy now that we can make it up to him this way in 2022 and that in a few years we'll have a magnificent building that will be one of the most prestigious in the whole region. We have fulfilled another of his wishes, now we know that it was one of his last wishes, which is to enable us to buy a new "stenway" concert piano, which will now, after his death, have his name etched. We managed to do this and the Belgrade Philharmonic will have a newer concert "stenway" piano in spring. I say, we really managed to open that little budget, renovate and rebuild the work of two large, key museums, the National Museum in Belgrade, the Museum of Contemporary Art, is being built historically, that is, renovated the railway station building for Serbia's History Museum. There are plans to build another new space for the Nikola Tesla Museum, which will allow younger generations and people from all over the country and tourists to get acquainted with private life, but also with the creation of Nikola Tesla, as well as to see all the objects that are well-informed and which are just now in the deposits of the Nikola Tesla Museum, which belonged to him personally. It should never be forgotten, another 44 municipalities are building and finishing their small cultural centres, and it is crucial for Serbia's decentralisation. I expect a lot from the town of Cačka as the first capital of Serbia's culture in recent history. In the right way, the project will show what the intention of the state and government to centralise culture looks like. When it comes to the budget of one state, yes, over 1% of the republican budget, but let's look at what the budget for the culture of the AP Vojvodina will be, and what are the items of the separation for culture in all cities and municipalities across Serbia. This needs to be summed up, to see how many countries are singled out for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10997	I thank the Minister of Culture and Information. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10998	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us to resolve and elect the National Council for Culture, which is also a significant element in the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, which will work in full scope to improve culture and cultural creation, which will give an opinion, suggestions, proposals, but will also participate in giving all those opinions relating to the development of strategic documents in the field of culture. We know that strategic documents follow both action plans and activity plans. Therefore, the establishment of a National Council in full capacity and how it should contribute to the improvement of culture in Serbia in general. What I first have to point out is that the allocations in the 2022 budget were never higher. They have crossed 1% and, of course, local self-government also has a significant contribution to improving culture from their area, so that local self-government budgets are allocated funds. Culture is part of our identity, culture is part of our existence, culture is part of our tradition, culture is part of family education, but culture is part of our country's future. What I particularly want to point out is that it is the full commitment of Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, when it comes to her work on both the legislative level and her work on the site, i.e. going to many cities and municipalities to meet directly on the site the situation in the field of culture and to see how and how the infrastructure can be helped to make special progress in the conversation with relevant people in the fields of culture and local communities. I must point out that it should have been 15 years since the yellow tycoon rule ruled the Republic of Serbia, so that the National Museum in Belgrade is fully renovated, fully adapted, let go of work and that generations of primary school students, but also of all those who come to Belgrade and who are interested in Serbia's cultural heritage come to Belgrade and look at the National Museum. The previous yellow tycoon authorities headed by Dragan Gilas were absolutely not interested in cultural monuments or their adaptation and renovation. They mutilated a whole generation of students from first to eighth grade who did not have the opportunity or were able to visit the National Museum of Serbia. What I would also like to point out is that during the time of the Serbian Progressive Party's government, thanks above all to the great reputation of our President Alexander Vukic and his close co-operation and friendly relations with Russian Federation President Putin, 166 pages of Miroslav's Gospel were returned to Serbia, otherwise the oldest Cyrillic letter of the 12th century. It is now at the National Museum of Serbia. Also, I must point out that in the last year your ministry, Madam Vice President, has done a lot on the legislative framework, and that is where I must stress the law we have passed on Hilandar. What does that mean? This means that for the first time in a thorough, systematic and orderly manner, the state will define budgets for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Hilandar monastery, the center of our spirituality and statehood, which was hit by a large fire and which was largely affected by the 2004 fires. So much attention has never been paid to Hilandar, nor has material assistance and support been provided in a sustainable manner to preserve the almost greatest spiritual and church place that is significant for the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must point out that for the first time since the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power, there is talk of fighters in the Caymans, that Serbia has always been on the side of anti-fascism, that Serbia lost a third of its population in the great war, but that reconstruction of the Thessaloniki military cemetery has not been completed, that it has been completely abandoned. Of course, by the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power, that military cemetery, which is a symbol of suffering, but also a symbol of Serbia's life and progress, has been completely restored and reconstructed. I must point out that this year's medal was first established "Mother of Serbia" and that award was received by the military cemetery keeper at Zejtinlika Đorđe Mihailovic, who is otherwise the third generation of the Mihailovic family to guard and watch over the graves of 8,000 Serb soldiers who stayed in Thessaloniki and where their eternal residence is. I must also point out that in order to preserve a culture of memory of our ancestors, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and that they have done much to restore the cemetery in Tunisia, because we must not forget that 1,200 soldiers of the most legendary and brave "The Iron regiment" who fought in the Great War were buried in Tunisia. What I must also point out, and as regards the memory culture of all our sufferings that we must never forget, which we must not be ashamed of, which we must mention, not to seek revenge, but to never do so again, it is the creation of the film "Dar from Jasenovac", which speaks of the loss of the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people in the NDH area, where during World War II there was the only concentration camp for children. It's something we can't forget. That's something we need to talk about. It's something that never, ever in history, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. I must point out that we have learned little through history, that in the Great War there was the youngest warrior, and this is Momcilo Gavric, an eight-year-old boy who had lost his entire family, who joined the Serbian army, who fought bravely at the Kamakchalan, who passed the goals of Albania, but him, his courage, no one thought of Alexander Vukic and the arrival of the SNS in power. In 2018, a monument to Momcila Gavric, the youngest Corporal of the Great War, was erected in his native Loznica. It's something the whole world needs to know, it's something Serbia should be proud of. The monument is also a place of creation, a place of death for all those children who were innocently killed in the Great War, because we must not forget that in the Great War Serbia lost a third of its population and that almost every Serbian house in the forest was surrounded by a black banner. Of course, the memory culture is there to remind us, but the memory culture is also something that must never be forgotten. Life has no alternative, and that is why Alexander Vukic's policy is a policy of life, a policy of peace, but certainly also a policy of memory for all those glorious ancestors who have made it possible for us to live in freedom and peace today. Long live Serbia and lived Alexander Vucic!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u10999	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11000	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Minister Gojkovic, Mrs Gojkovic, with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues and colleagues mainly said about the National Council for Culture. What is important, a respected minister, and what should be pointed out today is that the SNS and their members have inherited a country from the former government that was totally devastated, a country with destroyed institutions, a country without any security of its citizens, a country that was totally humiliated, a country without hope and faith in the future of its citizens, a country that was without a plan and without programme in all fields of social and economic development, a country with too much debt, a country with a high unemployment rate of more than 26%, a country with no international reputation, a country and people and citizens who were totally satanized in international relations, a country with the highest privatisation in this part of Europe, a country with the worst health system in Europe, a country with no army, because the then president of the former Tadic regime, I quote: "What will the army? “ and the land of destroyed and devastated cultural institutions, Madam Minister. The institutions of culture were totally destroyed and devastated. What the SNS did, and that's when we found the country in this state, we tried to rebuild the state and nation after a hundred years, and we're doing pretty well in all the fields. As for culture, Madam Minister, what you personally did, which is that you circled, after ten years, all legislative activities related to culture. And that's true, some political opponents say if I'm telling the truth and whether I'm lying. I'll just have two or three sentences. The law on museum work that has been waiting for decades, the Law on Archival Activity, what we have been waiting for for for decades and agreed on with the best and most modern achievements in this part of the world and Europe, and that I still do not list, the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic Letters, which we have been waiting for years and decades, because Serbia and the Serbian people have been breaking up for 80 to 100 years, and no one can deny it. We built and renovated the National Museum in Belgrade. The previous authorities couldn't begin for 13.5 years, started and thus stood without the use of citizens. The Museum of Contemporary Art, not to mention, has made a great contribution to decentralisation of culture. It's not a floscule, it's a reality, as the citizens of the Sremski Karlovci see, and also a Chačka in a year and a half, etc. Don't let me count on it. We're going to the National Council. What you've done with the National Council, we've been waiting 15 years for it. Right, gentlemen of the former regime? Wherever you want to go to the fact duel. We have also been waiting for legislative activity related to him, and you are well aware of the MPs. And as for the quality of these 11, good for you. It's been hard for you, really hard to choose, but as far as I'm concerned, following culture and science, let me just say, thank you. Thank you for being on the list of Professor Zlata Bojovic. Thank you on behalf of thousands and thousands of generations of wonderful scientists. It's my professor at postgraduate studies in the area of the former Yugoslavia, one of the 16 scientists. Thank you to the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts for identifying Professor Zlata Bojovic and this other candidate. Such candidates should also be found in education, at the National Council for Higher Education. I am in charge of 11 former students in the area of the former Yugoslavia to thank the Serbian Academy of Science and Prof. Dr. Zlati Bojovic for leaving deep scientific, cultural, human and above all the patriotic seal to us students, who have been passing on to younger generations. Thank you, ma'am, my former professor, Zlato Bojovic, you have finally arrived, both you and those 10 and those many others are gone, will come in turn. We return pride to culture, pride to the country in that sense. Do not be angry, Madam Minister, because, as you said, the former government criticises that we have not invested in culture, it otherwise denies, especially in Kosovo. And I'm just gonna say about Kosovo, because I've been working in Kosovo and Metohija for 25 years, and I know I'm being watched by political opponents right now. I'll say a dozen sentences for that area, and let them say whether or not it's true. Mr. Wolfe Jeremiah, who you call the day before yesterday, you call Alexander Vukic for Kosovo, shame on you! You, Vuke Jeremic, said in a conversation with US Congressman Teo Polo in December 2008, I quote: "The entry of KIM into the UN is the best thing Serbia should hope for if it is lucky." Did you say that, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah? And you're accusing Alexander Wolfie of fighting like a lion for KIM. Let's move on. And you, Mr. Former Prime Minister, are accusing Zoran Zivkovic. You've been hiding now and you've thrown the other party president behind your back, because you're ashamed of your words that you've said about KIM, and here you're calling our minister for the field of culture and the president for KIM. Well, you, Mr. Zivkovic, said at an international conference in Vienna in October 2003, "I still don't care whose KIM is." Did you say that or not? Who the hell are you accusing? That's what all citizens know, 90-100% of citizens, everyone knows you did it. Look at the miracles, believe it or not, who's reported in the last four or five days -- Boris Tadic, former president. Mr. Tadic, my former president of the state, don't go public. You're 27. Seven. In 2006, in a conversation with US envoy Vizner, I quote: "You have done and accepted the independence of KIM as the outcome". Did you say that or not? Dear citizens, you will now see who gave up KIM and who lies to us daily through the media under the control of Dragan Gilas. Speaking of Tadic, please, look at the miracles, only ten days before, and that was 14. 11, a year and a month, he said, quote: "The era of power of Alexander Vukic is filled with picturesque nonsense." Mr. Ex-President of mine and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so are the nonsense hundreds of kilometers of highways, are the nonsense hundreds of kilometers of roads, the construction of over 350 bridges, is the stupidity of building hundreds of schools and homes of health, clinical centres? Is stupidity a financial consolidation of our country? Now, my Boris Tadic, all history will tell, about me and about you and Alexander Vukic. What is true and what no one can deny is that history will record that Aleksandar Vukic was the Serbian ruler at this time and that he restored the Serbian state and nation, as well as that he was one of the greatest reformers in Serbia's history. You'll never deny it. Our future generations, when I'm not alive, will surely study these words that I speak. Look at the wonders of what Boris said about the prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Imagine who's reproving, Boris Tadic! He said, quote, "Anna Brnabić is semi-literate." He transferred a leaf under the control of Dragan Gilas 14. 11. 2020. You can spit however you want, but Ana Brnabic is fighting for KIM better than you, Mr Tadic, and never she, nor Maja Gojkovic, and not to count others, will not give it up, but we will all look together for a compromise solution and long-term for our southern Serbian province. Let's move on. Speaking of which, we're going to the next representatives of the opposition parties when it comes to KIM. These days, Sergey Trifunovic, otherwise known as the "Sergej Pishoi", also reported, why, because he said he would piss on the grave of dead President Aleksandar Vukic. People call him that for it. He said on January 31st 2019, I quote, "Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians and not to Serbs," a quote concluded. What you have cursed these days by the President of the Republic, frame it, Mr. Trifunovic, put it in the living room and remember that you have a mother too, Mr. Trifunovic. Let's move on. Nenad Canak, in a people called "Some Gicoje" said in March 2017, quote: "I am ready to recognise an independent Kosovo", finished the quote. Is it true or not, Mr. Chanak? We move forward, Cedomir Jovanovic, 29.9.2015, said, quote: "The state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act that only irresponsible politicians ignore." It's a finished quote. Mr. Jovanovic, did you say that or not? Let's move on. Dragan Djilas, in a people known as the "Diki Mafia", said in a conversation with the US Embassy's envoy in Belgrade, "I stand for the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija." Did you say that, sir, Gilas or not? Unlike you, for me, Ratko Mladic is one of the greatest Serbian heroes and would never, nor do what you and The Hague tribunal attribute to him. You forget when you talk about The Hague tribunal that it is illegal, it was not founded by the legal court, and you and your comrades are saying that. Therefore, if an illegal authority has established it, all decisions it has made and which it will make in the future, for another hundred years that it exists, are not valid and it is known, and that I am not talking about the legal and historical work, let legal doctor Martinovic give you a lecture on genocide, and I will talk about the historical in Srebrenica, face all the authors of the world, and there is no dilemma there, and you are accusing the state of Serbia and the citizens and the Serbian people. So my, Mr. Gilas, professor Dr. Rade Veljanovski, in a people called the Rade eggs, said on 24 April 2018, quote: "Serbia should recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, provide him with a chair in the UN," the quote concluded. Professor, colleague of Rade Veljanovski, called the eggplant, and you know why, do you know that fellow professors, what if I were to tear up any country, or Aleksandar Vukic, or Martinović, or Mirkovic, that he was on that side or minister? Look what you're doing. Let's move on. He reported, believe it or not, to these days a former candidate for state president Sasa Jankovic, a Sala prangi in a people called. What's all this about? Because he was found, apparently, his gun in his apartment when his colleague Gojkovic was killed. That's what I've been asking here a dozen times, respected citizens, questions and came to a conclusion, behold, miracles, that the documentation was destroyed. Believe it or not, in the archives of the city of Belgrade, you know what the director and president of the commission was? Branka Prpa. Now you've got it all figured out. I've come to these materials and that. Just so the citizens understand. When a member of a single school board is elected, that decision is of permanent archival value, and this one here in the Archives of the Murder has been destroyed as a irrelevant archival structure. That's why archives, the Archive Act and our archivists are important, and it's important who runs these facilities. Imagine what Sasa Jankovic said. I quote: "Serbia is in the interest," he says, even as the presidential candidate in 2017, "to get Kosovo into Interpol and thus recognise Kosovo's independence". That's my presidential candidate, with 17% he won in the election. Dear citizens, you know who your candidates were and who's going to be your candidates tomorrow. Let's move on. Bosko Obradovic, a people known as Boki Violent, admitted Kosovo and Metohija at a secret meeting in the US ambassador's residence in Belgrade on June 13th 2019. At that time, he did not contradict Kyle Scott and Matthew Palmer, who repeatedly reiterated Kosovo as an independent state. He was silent as a mouse, and he's running for president of the state, I guess. Let's move on. Believe it or not, the one who is constantly cursing and cursing Alexander Vukic these days, yesterday quoted those 11 expressions that the human mind cannot comprehend, academic Professor Dr Dusan Teodorovic, including him, behold, miracles, academics, said on July 22, 2020, quote: "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia." Oh, my academic. Well, you're the day before yesterday on that Gilas TV and you're criticizing Alexander Vukic, so you, Mr. Academyman, left your homeland during the bombing, for two years and fled to the country that bombed us. It's you, Mr. Academy. You've saved your tour in the United States and you've returned, but you're not proud, the dignity of a professor, the dignity of a scientist. One scientist besides scientific achievements embellishes high moral values and a patriotic act, as it was with Nikola Tesla, that I don't quote it anymore, because I did it. Let's move on. Balsa Bozovic has been working on a pirate from Maldives these days, cursing us daily, and he gave up KIM because he founded some Academy of Democracy where he spits on the president of the state and the MPs. He said, "Everyone knows that Kosovo and Metohija are definitely lost in the 1999 war," Dragan Gilas quoted him as saying. Furthermore, Philip David, this is the one who spits every day in the magazine "Time" according to the president of the country, said on June 6, 2019, quote: "Kosovo is not Serbia, nor will it be." Not to quote Serbia's Turlajic, there are as many as you want. Dear citizens, Honorable Vice President Dr Orlic, the honourable minister, the MPs, while these people I have called daily to spit on our country, according to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to everything that is being built today and done in Serbia, and especially by President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, until then our president, together with his associates from day to day, builds up the Republic of Serbia, implements the policy of peace, the policy of security of economic progress and the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, the health policy of all our citizens, and not only our citizens, but also in the environment and beyond, and in one word, the policy of modernisation, and the engine of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our president, all due to the future of our children. Long live the Republic of Serbia, lived our children, lived our president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11001	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right? No, I don't. I thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 16 and 17 of the agenda. I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work and move on to a search in detail. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Slavica Savičić, State Secretary, Dr Dragan Demirović and Vojislav Lazarevic, Assistant Minister, Svetlana Kuzmanovic - Živanovic and Ljiljana Petrovic, Head of the Department of Finance and Jelena Dragojlović, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. You have received an amendment that has been submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds under the amendment to the amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The President of the Committee, Aleksandra Tomic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11003	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we have somehow gotten used to each year when we adopt the rebalancing and budget for next year together to come to this formulation that the increase in ordinary salary goes from December 1st. However, when we say it is an increase on December 1st, then it belongs to the rebalancing, meaning this year financial, and when we say that the increase from January 1st is 2022, then it's part of the budget next year. Therefore, we have seen that there has been a technical error, that an increase in wages and pensions can go exclusively according to the budget for next year and that deadline is 1.1.2022, so we have suggested that the minister adopts the error. He, of course, looked at it all and accepted it on the board and we thanked you for it. We will simply have defined increases and precise deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11004	I thank the Committee. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11005	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, this amendment improves the text of the basic law. One technical error on the draft law amending the Law on the income of citizens in the field of copyright tax is corrected. Thanks to the good economic policy of the Serbian government, thanks to the good state policy of the President of the Republic, which is also witnessed by the results of a visit to Russia and talks with Vladimir Putin, more jobs are being opened in Serbia, more and more people in Serbia, more and more citizens have the opportunity to work and make money, and hence, more and more funds are being poured into the state budget than the profit tax. Unfortunately, the state is often forced that money from the budget, that citizens' money spends on some activities that are not socially justified, which harm society and the state, and I will talk about one such case today. The state was forced 15 days ago to engage strong police forces to prevent major riots over attempts by irresponsible people to remove a mural in downtown Belgrade. It is a picture of my wartime commander, my friend, Chief of Staff of Republika Srpska Army Ratko Mladic, who was painted by an unknown author on a facade in Belgrade. Otherwise, that mural doesn't have any artistic value. The picture has led to a campaign for two weeks that led to the mural becoming one of the subjects of great interest not only to the public in Serbia, but also to the public in the region. Because of that picture, for two weeks now, all anti-Serbian boluments, I have been using the term, which includes activists of NGOs and individual opposition parties of the Dossovian orientation, leading a four-way campaign: the first goal, not most importantly, is to remove mural, the second goal is to challenge conflicts among Serbian citizens, the third goal is to arm the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and state leadership and the fourth goal is to humiliate the Serbian people. However much anyone looks at it, removing the mural in the way it is tried and with the arguments given, would be a great humiliation to the Serbian people. The main creator of the action and campaign against the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people is Aida Ćorovic of Novi Pazar, a housewife who has membership cards of the Social Democracy, the Democratic Party and the Civil League, and is also a member of the following NGOs: Women in Black, the Centre for Anti-war Action and the Belgrade Circle. Practically, whatever anti-Serbian circuit played in Belgrade, Aida caught on to it. Aida recently founded her own NGO a while ago, I don't know her name. She simply got tired of being in the shadow of Sonja Biserko, Natasha Kandic, Staše Zajevic, or whatever it is called, and sharing with them fame and money, because she estimated there was no need for it, because she knows that she acts and works against Serbia just as well as they do. I do not dispute that what Mrs. Corovic is doing is legitimate. Why am I saying this, why am I having this discussion today? It's normal in Serbia. It is perfectly normal in Serbia to protest against Ratko Mladic and other Serbian heroes, against Serb symbols. But imagine now that the president of the "Eastern Alternative" Association of Republika Srpska, Vojin Pavlovic, heads to Sarajevo to destroy the mural, for example, Naser Oric or to destroy any graphite that glorifys Naser Oric or any other Bosniak, or Muslim commander, and announces his action in the media, to schedule exactly the date and hour when this action will take place and to explain his action by explaining the need for Sarajevo to save him, to clean him from fascism. You can assume we'd welcome him. He would be welcomed by hundreds of former members of the "Pariot League", a hundred former "green berets" and at best for him, he would be beaten. Imagine, too, if you could imagine, and would it be normal for you, as is normal for what is happening in Belgrade, to find an opposition party in Sarajevo and to support Vojin Pavlovic or to find the media that will support Vojin Pavlovic? It is yet unimaginable to find a single citizen of Sarajevo who would go out at the scheduled time, take part in an attempt to remove the mural or graphite of Naser Oric or another Bosniak commander. It's normal in Belgrade. In Belgrade, it is normal for a portion of the opposition's dossal orientation, created by the former DOS, to support the causing of the riots to remove the murals of Ratko Mladic. In Belgrade it is normal, in Serbia it is normal for the Dosovo opposition press to support one such activity, and there have been a few dozen fools who have come to participate in the removal of the mural. Or, to illustrate another example, imagine that Milica Djurdjevic, from the "Staves", went to Novi Pazar to take down a board called Achif Efendi. Acif Efendija was a supporter of Adolf Hitler during World War II and was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Serbian civilians, and rich and Muslim civilians. Imagine if she went and, say, brought with her Simu of Saviors, and supported by Suleiman the carbonite. It's just unimaginable. The creators of this campaign, which requires the state to spend people's money, say Ratko Mladic is a criminal, committed genocide, that he is a fascist. There is no evidence in The Hague tribunal's verdicts and there is no witness that directly connects Ratko Mladic with an order to commit a crime, let alone commit a crime directly. Ratko Mladic was sentenced in The Hague only for commanding the Republika Srpska Army and for successfully commanding the Republika Srpska Army. If the Republika Srpska Army had been defeated, if Republika Srpska had not been created, Ratko Mladic would have been released, there would have been no indictment against it. At the same time, there are dozens of witnesses who testify that Naser Oric personally led the looting hordes that destroyed Serb villages in Podrinj, who killed Serb civilians, and we have witnesses from his fellow Members that he personally killed individual prisoners, so we have a professor's case, I think his name is Ilic in Zalazi, and we have a case, and I will talk about it later, one of his fellow Members who, in statements he gave to The Hague tribunal and the authorities, explains that Naser Oric himself killed two Serbian women who were in another condition. Now, watch out, this Naser Oric can walk in Sarajevo freely, he is a national hero in Sarajevo, no one can do anything to him, and in Belgrade it should be prohibited to highlight images of Ratko Mladic. Of course, they don't care about Ratko Mladić or his mural. Mladic's war has been eliminated. He is now in the Hague tribunal prison, and with the mural, time or some irresponsible people will do their part. What's this about? This is about sending messages, very dangerous for Serbia and the Serbian people, about continuing the campaign against Serbia and the Serb people. Because if Ratko Mladić is a war criminal, a man who is a fascist, a man who committed genocide, then it turns out that the army he commanded was criminal and genocide. If the Republika Srpska Army was genocide, then Republika Srpska, they say, is a genocide. And it is not normal that in the 21st century in Europe, there is one country that has formed on genocide, which draws the conclusion that the Republic of Serbia needs to be abolished. Hence, the campaign to remove the murals of Ratko Mladic. Hence, Valentin Inzko, the son of Officer Gestapo, brings a regulation that tries to sharpen the lie that genocide was committed in Srebrenica and hence the provocations that we have in this Assembly, where several MPs are constantly proposing that this Assembly adopt a declaration condemning the alleged genocide in Srebrenica. You can't condemn something that doesn't exist. There was no genocide in Srebrenica. According to international law, according to the UN Charter, genocide is when someone, according to a premeditated plan, tries to shut down, destroy one ethnic group and its members. Accordingly, if Ratko Mladic wanted to commit genocide and tried to commit genocide, he would, above all, see to eliminate the most vital part of the Muslim people and the reproductive part of the Muslim people, so he would kill women and children. What do we have, what happened at Srebrenica? In Srebrenica, under the command of Ratko Mladic, the Republika Srpska Army, which they call a fascist, saved more than 26,000 Muslim civilians, women and children. They are all trucks and buses of the Republika Srpska Army, fueled by the Republika Srpska Army, at a time when we had no fuel for half of the tanks, so they were all transferred to Muslim-controlled territory under the control of the BiH Army, the so-called BiH Army, in the Kladnja and Tuzla area. Next thing. In July 1995, no cases of rape or attempted rape of Muslim women were recorded in Srebrenica. Now I'm asking you here, try to find one case in the history of war that so many women and so many enemy soldiers were found in such a small space without any case of rape, no case of child murder. If genocide was committed in Srebrenica, it was committed over the Serb population. You all know that more than 3,300 Serbs were killed in Srebrenica and surrounding villages, of which several hundred are women and children. Naser Oric and his soldiers, members of the regular Muslim army, under Sarajevo's command, were breaking into Serbian villages, into Zalazje, in Belovac, Donja Ježestic, Gornja Ježestic, Podravanje, etc. and killed hundreds of civilians in them. As far as rape is concerned, I will now read you a statement by Samir Adic of Glogova near Bratunc, who was in Naser Oric's unit from 1992 to 1995, one of his best friends and associates. He explains in his 105-page statement, I have this statement, taken officially from the UN tribunal. However, they said: “Don’t move it, keep quiet about it, don’t say such things, we aim to condemn the Serbs for the events in Srebrenica. ” He describes the event when his unit broke into the village of Voljevica and captured a dozen girls under the age of 25, quote: “The girls were taken to a house where before the war there was a pub held by a man named Samir. They spent the same night and raped them, making love with them against their will, commanders who participated in the attack on Voljevic, which is Naser Oric, Zulfo Tursunović, Smajo Mandzic, Ejub Golic, the Gloge who died, Ibro Dudic called Duda. I wasn't a direct witness and an accomplice to rape and murder, but after killing, I walked into that house where I saw them dead. The bodies of the killed were upstairs in three rooms, and they spoke about the rape themselves." I remind you, none of the above, Naser Oric and other Muslim commanders, were convicted of this or any other crime in Podrinj, and of Serbia, Belgrade, something is expected of the Serb people that is completely abnormal, something that is insane, in Belgrade to remove pictures of Republika Srpska's military commander Ratko Mladic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11006	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move on to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. You have received the amendment submitted by the government under the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. An amendment to which members of 20a are added after Article 20. and 20b. The government of the Republic of Serbia has put up with it. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11007	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, amendments submitted by the Government, which relate to the Law on Income Tax, essentially extends the period of all those taxpayers who pay taxes and contribute to self-taxation and that period is one year longer. This means that in 2022 too, all those who should pay taxes and contribute in this way will have a specific payment system that we, to remind you, established in April of this year when the Government of the Republic of Serbia made an agreement with so-called. "freelensers" who pay their taxes and contributions in this way, in that way, as said by 2015, by the end of 2021, should pay back taxes in 120 equal months of war, and in addition, we have some of the additions that we have made. You, as Government, have made concessions to the frillers, which is that all those who have monthly earnings of up to 32,000 dinars will not pay income tax, as well as the normised costs that are calculated on a total profit of 50%, which means that all those who earn about 64,000 dinars per month or 768,000 per year would not pay taxes. It's the most for them. All others, which are much less, would pay the tax that is defined in this way in 120 equal months of war. I think the April frillers were pleased with that law. Now I can be even more pleased with this supplement because in 2022, the tax will pay exactly as I said earlier. Of course, in order for such a single payment to occur and for the state to be able to bear a certain tax on itself, above all, because in this listener we see that a certain tax would not go into the Republic of Serbia's budget. There must be certain properties, that is, conditions that exist, and that is primarily one strong, quality budget that we adopted at the beginning of this week. The JS parliamentary group supported the budget and voted in favour. Otherwise, this budget is followed not only by this law, but there is a set of accompanying budget laws for 2022. The very word "tracking" the laws implies that they are closely linked to the budget. I would say, in addition to those qualifications that I said about the budget, that this budget is quite comfortable precisely for these accompanying laws and of course for these kinds of amendments that we are making, so the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will also support these amendments that the government has proposed and, of course, a set of laws that monitor the 2021 budget. The comfort of the budget that I'm talking about is also emerging in the very creation that we've already considered here and said that it's quite conservative and cautious, which means a sense of things. One of them, if we look at it, is the fiscal deficit the government was counting on to be at the end of 2022 at 3%. Probably at the end of 2022, that fiscal deficit will be lower and we can conclude, first of all, on the basis of the budget creation itself, because it relies on the previous year, on the year 2021, where the fiscal deficit, which was planned, will remind you, in April of the month at 6.7% and the end of this year is planned for 4.9% of the fiscal deficit, and we think it will be less than 4.9%. So this all indicates that the fiscal deficit in 2022 can be below 3%. If we now know that Serbia in this energy crisis that has hit the whole world is going to save about 300 million dollars just on the $270 gas payment, that also confirms it. Also, if we look at last year we can see that at the time of the pandemic, the government has invested huge financial resources of 3.5% of GDP on subsidies to businesses, health, citizens, etc. That if we refuse, then we'll see that, let's say, one kind of real deficit that was below 1.4% last year. So, it's all about the comfort of this budget. If we look at GDP growth, which was planned here again conservatively to 4.5%, and it's probably going to be much bigger, because again we have to look back at the 2021 year where GDP growth was defined by 7%, and we hope it will be and we think it'll be greater than 7%, and we don't see any obstacles in the next year or at least we hope there's no one who wouldn't confirm this. One more thing, this is a projection of the revenues themselves that were increased in 2022 only 1.9% compared to the revenues that were projected from 2021, and if we know that GDP growth was projected to 4.5%, this is also saying that growth, or income, will be much higher than 1.9%, which is projected. All this tells us that this budget is quite comfortable and the government can take on a lot of tax interventions, as is the case with these amendments. The comfort of the budget that this law can see, too, if we know that this law increases the untaxable share of 18.300 to 19.300 dinars, as well as the increase of the minimumer alone of 9.4%, that is 35.012, as well as the increase in wages of 7.27%, which tells us that, when we look at the sum in the set, it should mean that as far as GDP itself is concerned, the sum was greater than it was in 2021 when it was an arrest of 10.2%. This grip this year is going to be 10.1%, which tells us again that we have a comfort where we can get certain Nuns phenomena that are created in this way, we can solve them. I'd say a few nuns of phenomena that aren't from today, not since yesterday, but just to see that the government has a chance to solve it in the next period. Namely, many public enterprises, public utility companies in local self-government, therefore, education, etc. have certain jobs that have a coefficient, and especially those that are the lowest with the lowest and the most professional equipment, and then in order to make it a little clearer, I'm going to plastically explain it in order to understand each other. First of all, we have certain coefficients that not only follow the minimum. So the labour price coefficient is below this minimumer, which is going to be 35,012 dinars, is going to be somewhere with those smallest coefficients to round up about 25,000. Then we have the following coefficients that are slightly higher and they are at 30,000 dinars, so even higher coefficients that actually speak both better jobs and more responsible jobs go to 35,000 dinars, etc. Therefore, they will all receive 35,000 dinars. This is one of the problems because people with different coefficients have the same income, even if those who have the lowest coefficient have a higher salary than those who have a much higher coefficient than them, because the payout goes to and past work, and they are mostly the ones with more past work. So it's one of the problems that should be solved in the next period. But there's one problem that's about all of that, which is the mass of profit itself, because when you see these people that I said, who have coefficients, who have a lower salary in the account, or a minimum wage, then that money in the mass should be replaced. It will replace, of course, public utility, public enterprises, ministry, state, local self-government, etc. So we need to pay attention to that, especially now that we know that the minimumer is increasing 9.4%, and the salary is increasing 7%, so there's a bigger difference in what I've been talking about. I think now is the time to solve these problems because these problems, as I said, are not since yesterday, and this budget that we have now has simply not fallen from the sky, but a continuous multi-annual work has led to this kind of positive budget, and I think, especially now, at this time of the pandemic where we have the pandemic of the coronary virus for two years and we will enter into the third year, where it has left great consequences for both the world economy and our economy, but I must also praise it once again that we have managed very well, that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia planned at the end of this year is about 58.2%, that in 2022 it will be about 55.5%. So that's another proof of one quality budget that we've had and that has opportunities for this kind of thing that we're talking about. I would also point out one more thing that we are going to do very quickly and I think that we will all agree that the average earnings at the end of 2022 will be around 610 euros and when the budget was rebalanced I was talking about this phenomenon and now I would also like to say a few sentences, which is that educational workers who receive the salary that is below the republican average currently in 2022, given that there is an increase in the average salary of 610 euros, they will probably have even more imbalances, so I think we should pay particular attention there if we know that the Serbian Government is investing huge funds in education. Investment in education, especially at this time when we are talking about the birthright and demographic policy, which was announced by the president of the Republic of Serbia, which will last not just one year, but we expect tens of years and more because it is a large process, investment in education is also one of the parts of that policy, and investment in education is an investment in the salaries of educational workers. Investment in this education and education workers is an investment in their own future, in their own children, etc. Because at one point we're going to have enough nuns of the phenomenon that I said would become the brakes of our further development, and the problems are solved when we have the opportunity, and I think there are now huge possibilities to solve these problems. Finally, I would also like to say a few sentences, given that I am here all the time talking about it, and even when we talk about this budget, we should say in particular to mention the capital budget, capital investments, which this year one of the biggest ones, in fact the biggest budget that the Republic of Serbia has had in terms of capital investments that is 7.3% of GDP and compared to the previous 2021, has been increased since that initial budget of 129 billion dinars this year, and it is great that the government invests big money in these capital investments, especially in so-called capital investments. productive investment that will bring it all back very quickly and investment in traffic infrastructure, which now solves other spheres of life, and in particular this will mean a real improvement in the lives of citizens, and that is exactly what I said and because here I kept mentioning the south of Serbia and the road that I was saying should be done, one of the worst roads in Serbia, which is Leskovac – Wolfje and I can say with pleasure that yesterday was started with the construction of that road, and I hope that such a performance as the government is going to solve the problem, the decades-long problem of all citizens and the impertinence and the maritime end, and I am very pleased with that. In any case, in the end, let me say that the JS Parliamentary Group will also support these amendments proposed by the Government and all the accompanying laws accompanying this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11008	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move on to the draft law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. You have received an amendment submitted by the MP, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, on the draft of the law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the First Amendment. He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11009	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment which I do not know if you have had the opportunity to read, but it is regarding that in Article 1 of this article, exclusively from the position of the 3rd, for vehicles of historical importance, i.e. the old timers referred to in Article 7 paragraph 1 point 88. The Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads whose engine work volume is greater than 2,000 cubic metres of motor vehicle tax shall be paid in a flat-rate amount of 5,000 dinars in accordance with the provisions of Article 27 of this Act. And I'm going to say, of course, the government has rejected the amendment with some reason, with all due respect for this argument, which I'm going to read afterwards, and I'm going to say something in favour of this because I think we've been trying for a long time to make this a prelude to laws and regulations for historic vehicles according to European standards and laws. I consider this amendment to be a step towards a closer orderly system solution in line with EU rules and best practice and international practice. The amendment proposes a flat-rate taxation of the use of vehicles of historical importance in order to relieve the owners of these vehicles of high taxes and to be stimulated to keep their copies of old and extremely rare and valuable vehicles in possession. We suggest that it be an amount of 5,000 dinars that wouldn't burden the owners of old-timers on an annual basis. With a tax approach like this, we would show what the value of this particular historical heritage of our country is. When we say the historical heritage of our country, we do a little bit of neglect, I will also provide data because every oldtimer is a witness to an historic period in our country, industrial development, the progress of civilization and an unbreakable part of our entire history, and it is necessary for us as a state to participate in tax cuts in the preservation of such valuable vehicles and to contribute to the motivation of owners to keep as many such vehicles in Serbia as possible. When I say tax cuts, I don't even know if there's a tax reduction because the fact that it's a tax burden is high, the owners of those cars don't even register those cars, so that would be an additional revenue to the budget. It is true that the government has explained that it does not accept the amendment for reasons that no procedure for determining, sorting a vehicle of historical importance is not prescribed. We've been trying with the agency for years, and we've even arranged for the import of motor vehicles as well as the Road Safety Act. These regulations provide for specific status and specific rules for the import and registration of historic vehicles. However, for the sake of full and systematic regulation of oldtimer status, it is necessary in an appropriate manner to regulate this tax status and, of course, this record that the government makes in its reasoning. Serbia is one of the few, but not the last state in Europe to solve the problem of registration of historic vehicles systemically for general benefit, even all countries in the environment have agreed their legal ones in the area with the European one. Historical vehicles, which due to their age, the state of technology, at the time of their creation and production in most cases have engines of large work volume, more than 2,500, 3,000, often 5,000 cubic metres. The older the engine's work volume, the bigger it gets. On the other hand, the motor vehicle taxation system in the Republic of Serbia is based on engine work volume, as a key criterion with certain adjustments based on the age of the vehicle. These corrections mostly cover vehicles older than 40 years old, with a wave of old-timers and the notion of old-timer in the EU is vehicle status over 40 years old. The result of this situation is the fact that hundreds of historic vehicles are not used, stand unregistered, and in the end line fail, since their owners are unable to pay the costs of their registration. This includes the loss and owners of these vehicles and the Republic of Serbia itself. Owners because they can't use their property, and the Republic because of the lack of revenue from these vehicles. In order to allow registration of these vehicles at reasonable costs, i.e. at a reasonable amount of tax, the budget would receive income from tax on use, holding and carrying goods, excise duties and taxes on unused fuel, taxes on necessary parts, maintenance work and the like. According to our records, which is what we did and when we did this, the import status of those same vehicles is registered to a few dozen vehicles a year, which is about 5% of our country's historic vehicles. For example, Germany has a total of over 330,000 vehicles registered, Hungary 21,000. Among other things, which is why this story now seems to someone small and unusual, but it would arrange the status of those vehicles in our country, in line with the proposed amendment, it would stimulate their owners not to sell them abroad. On the contrary, it would certainly be a stimulant if existing vehicles were restored and their new vehicles bought and imported into Serbia. Unsolved status, expensive registration, unfortunately forces a large number of owners to sell their vehicles, which have mostly gone abroad, mostly to Germany, Slovenia, Croatia and Hungary, while we of course all know which vehicles from the EU. I'm saying once again, Minister, with some good will of yours to accept this amendment of mine, that it may be another step towards regulating the status of these vehicles. As I explained, it won't be any damage to the budget, but even a perk. What I still wanted to mention, and what is very important, according to some knowledge, is that the owners of these vehicles travel 50 to 100 kilometers a year only when they are exhibits. If he went back to export and export data, he was really huge. We regularly export a large number of vehicles. Annual imports into Serbia are negligible compared to previously mentioned figures I have already said. With the end of the imports of old-timers and castoffs, one segment of small businesses in Serbia died, which was very popular in the region and Europe, which was the restoration of historic vehicles that employed a lot of workers, primarily masters and craftsmen. Of course, the law was at one point in the procedure, so it retreated, where the status of the vehicle was regulated from historical importance and I consider this performance itself and this desire to distract myself again when it comes to vehicles of historical importance, that it is necessary to urgently pass a law that has already been announced several times, and for unknown reasons it has not been adopted so far. I could talk more. It is very important that we preserve historic vehicles in Serbia, and the budget would thus be much higher, because there would be more registered vehicles because, as I have already stated, they are not registered because of these circumstances and the reasons I mentioned. Thank you. If I have succeeded a little with my explanation and the allegations to convince you that this is necessary, I would ask you to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11010	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11011	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Mali, with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing amendments to the draft laws relating to the budgetary system, to the income tax of citizens, to the income tax of legal persons, etc. At the very beginning, I must say that two days ago we adopted the unanimous budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, which is defined as very fiscally responsible and economically very well. Following the public hearing and the presentation of the budget for 2022, which was attended by representatives of the government and the resolution ministry on 9 November, where NBS Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, representatives of the DRI, then the Fiscal Council, the Chamber of Commerce, the professional public, representatives of the Civil Society Organisation and interested media attended. After a session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, I can say that the proposed budget for 2022 is focused on the continuation of capital investments and the start of new projects that will further raise our country's economy, as well as on the even greater financial support of all other areas of life that are important to our citizens, from health to environmental protection. What does that mean when I say that the budget is defined as very fiscally responsible and economically very well? The draft budget for 2022 is the continuation of a gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit and also the envisioned fiscal deficit of a slight reduction in public debt participation in GDP. It was planned from 58.2% as we end in 2021 to 56.5% at the end of 2022. We expect that in 2022 we will have a realistic GDP increase of 4.5% and a record over 52 billion euros. An increase in pensions of 5.5% is defined by an objective Swiss formula. At the end of February 2022, there is also one-time cash aid to all pensioners of 20,000 dinars. Then, the increase in public sector wages of 7.4% on average and the minimum earnings increase by 9.4%, will be 35.012 dinars. I'll remind you that it's a minimum profit during the former Dossian regime that's now trying to unite again, but they're not doing anything. Only ten years ago, it was 15,600 dinars. Also, infrastructure-building separations have been held at a very high level. We continue to implement all the projects we started. It is also important to note that we continue with the gradual fiscal redundancy of profits. So the untaxable share of gross earnings is increasing from 18,300 to 19,300 dinars, while reducing the contribution rate for PIO to the employer's burden by 0.5%. I must also remind our citizens that the overall aid of the Serbian state headed by President Aleksandar Vukic at the time of the pandemic was eight billion euros or 17.2% of GDP. Also, never, but never, in the last 30 years, has the capital budget of our country amounting to 485 billion dinars. I'm going to give you an example, respected citizens of Serbia, that in 2010, this percentage of GDP was 3.1 and this capital investment budget is participating with as much as 7.3% of GDP. Five highways are currently being built and five more highways are being provided, as fast as possible. Three completely new hospitals were built, a vaccine factory, and exactly half a century after the subway story began building the first subway line in Belgrade. Also, we have a real growth of 7.7%, nominally 9.4%, and we have a stable course in the country all the time, and also stable inflation. Just to remind myself that from 2009 to 2012, the average annual inflation was 8.2%, and the average annual inflation was 2.25% from 2016 to 2021. The net inflow of foreign direct investment for the first ten months of 2021 amounts to over two billion euros, and the net inflow of foreign direct investment in the region, Northern Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania totals 1.7, which means that we had more than all the countries in the region, well, almost twice as much together. Public debt relative to gross domestic product will not exceed 60%, as I said with all measures, which is the level of Mastricht. In fact, this year we end at 58.2%, and for 2022, the projection is at 56.5%. The average salary in 2012 was 360 euros, with a growth trend of 610 euros by the end of 2021. Since I come from the Municipality of Negotin, I will give you information on how much will be invested in the period ahead of us in the Municipality of Negotin. One of the most important projects in order to improve agricultural production through the creation of conditions for increasing yields is the irrigation of a non-China-lower, whose value is 11624,000 euros and whose realisation we are already starting in 2022. Then we are going to build Serbia's first chemical-industrial park. It is the park Prahovo in the municipality of Negotin and it is a project of state importance announced by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in her exposé, because Negotin has an extremely favourable strategic position on the Danube coast, on the three-way between Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria. Also, we are going to reconstruct the negatin brewery, as one of the most attractive tourist potentials of Negotina and eastern Serbia, will be fully decorated thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who recognized the importance of the unique stone complex in Rajac, Roglev and Smedovac, and will be invested between three and five million euros and moving with works in the spring of next year. In addition to the completed routes of Negotin – Zaječar, which has not been restored since 1979, I have to remind the citizens, predominantly of my municipality, and the municipalities around, over 40 years and times since Negotin to the Gerdap II hydropower plant and the Romanian border. In 2022, all 13km of the state road from Negotin to the Bulgarian border will be worked. The value of the investment will be over 600,000 dinars, and thus we have connected all the routes and Negotin with the countries that are in the EU. Also, we are going into reconstruction of the wastewater treatment plant, the value of the investment of around 4,000 euros. Then we go to the construction of new heat and heat pipeline in the city, the value of the investment is about 1.5m euros. A new sewerage network in the city, the primary one, 2km long and a secondary one 8km long, worth 130,000,000 or about a million euros. Gasification of both Negotina and Prahova, where the chemical-industry park is located, I must say that President Aleksandar Vukic achieved in Sochi yesterday, I can freely say, a historic score for Serbia in the economic field and energy efficiency with Russian President Vladimir Putin, where he has provided us with a price of gas lower than the stock market four times and, more importantly, has provided us with energy security and savings of 300m euros. I can freely say that such investments have not been in Negotin municipality for over half a century. People only dreamed of all this, and we create it to improve all our citizens with the support of President Alexander Vukic and his team. I would eventually link the bill and the amendment to the budget system for 2022 with what is most important and what we do all this for, and of course these are our children. I'll get some information that's interesting, and it's very important. Our citizens need to know that the number of children born depends on the sustainability of the country's pension system. Serbia currently has nearly seven million inhabitants, but if negative demographic trends continue, it will have between four and a half and five and a half million inhabitants by 2060. The number of children per mother is 1.44, and for a simple reproduction, we need at least 0.8% more. That's what we started to change. We're headed by President Alexander Vukic to turn this trend around. It's slow, but it's very visible. That's why we changed the Financial Support Act for the family with children, which means that a mother who has a third and fourth child will receive 30,000 euros from the Serbian state over ten years. Which is, you'll agree, an excellent incentive. Also, as of this year, the president announced an increase in the country's first child donation from 100,000 dinars to 300,000 dinars, and there will also be even greater incentives for both the second, third, fourth children and young couples to stand alone and receive support for the purchase of the apartment. The state, led by President Vukic, has been dealing with birth problems for a long time and has to deal with the whole century in advance, and has to live the lives of our children and grandchildren and to think about whether or not we leave them any country they deserve. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11012	Thank you. Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The word is George Komlenski, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11013	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers with associates, as well as in 2018, a very similar amendment with the following wish. So Article 2 of the Law says in an indirect way that those who have the right to property or to use a building land of less than 10 acres do not pay a tax on property. We have an absurd situation that those who have a single square more, means 10 acres one square, pay property tax on the land in question. The amendment I have made is actually an attempt to balance one principle of equality in the best possible way, which is that up to 10 acres is not paid tax on property regardless of the size of the plot area. This would mean hypothetically, if the plot was 18 acres, the property tax would be calculated and paid only on eight acres, and on those first ten owners would be released. Among other things, if we're talking about justice, since I know the government's statement on this, maybe we should even consider even ending this release in the first place. Here's why. Mostly, the most expensive and valuable parcels are less than 10 acres and these are parcels here in Belgrade, in Vračar, the centre of Novi Sad, in Zlatibor, which have enormous value. Just because they're under 10 acres, their owners don't pay property taxes. In my Ljubinić, Orascu and other hosts who have 20 acres, whose value is objectively equal to perhaps one square of land on Vračar, are forced to pay property tax. So, in the perspective, maybe even we should think about it if we're going to work on the principle of fairness, but since we're legally defined this way, I think it would be extremely fair and correct to free all citizens from paying taxes on property, or building land up to 10 acres, and over 10 acres should pay, especially for these larger parcels there in the environments where both the objective market value and the real value of that land is lower. By doing so, one great injustice and injustice in this way would at least be partially eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11014	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11015	I thank the Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the minister is not here but there is a team and I want to congratulate you on the results you achieved despite the pandemic in the field of economy, which you consistently and responsibly led President Aleksandr Vukic's policy. Article 112 The budgetary system law provides for the introduction of a programme work into the financial plans of the mandatory social insurance organisation in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance for the production of a financial plan for compulsory social security in the programme structure, the financial plan shall contain a general and specific part, showing income and income by species, as well as expenditure and expenditure by purpose, in accordance with the economic classification and regulation. In the draft financial plan of the Fund for 2022, relevant instructions from the Ministry of Finance, total income on income, i.e. expenditure and expenditure of the Fund of 783 billion dinars, contributions to social security of 649 billion, as well as transfers from the budget were used. The funds for pension payments and the increase in pensions of 645 billion dinars are planned to match 5.5%, starting in January 2022 at a total of 631 billion, as well as the increase in salaries to defence pillars, military, police, health workers, as well as others in the public sector. The Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, a virtuoso strategy on the global-economic political plan, managed to preserve the economic system of the Republic of Serbia despite consequently less use of tourism, catering, traffic services, and investment levels are followed by an increase of 9% as export-oriented capacities that were the generator of economic growth. With a responsible socio-economic policy, regardless of the severe economic crisis, Serbia has managed to take steps to recognise all European countries, as well as the world. But we didn't do it because of other people's confessions, but because of our people, and that's why we helped all the citizens and businessmen who suffered enormous damage caused by the pandemic. Today, Serbia led by President Aleksandar Vukic's vision and the progress we will be able to provide with strong measures, the prosperity of our nation, so from January 1st for each child born instead of the 100,000 dinars we will immediately pay 300,000 dinars, that is the first measure we want to encourage mothers and families to give birth, especially taking care of the birth of another child, but also of huge help, primarily for young couples, i.e. the participation of 20,000 euros to buy the first apartment, where property rights will go to mother and child. It is a policy for all our children and we do not stop there, according to the "Serbia 2025" agenda, which proudly represents the works and work of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. With this wise and persistent policy conducted by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, through direct foreign investments, we strongly push forward our agenda for the development of the prosperity of our beloved country. Responsibilities towards the citizens of Serbia, as well as our consistency in maintaining good relations with our partners, have shown that no matter what disasters hit the planet, the country headed by Alexander Vukic will be and will remain a firm foundation for its people and all citizens. It is the policy of Alexander Vukic, with whom we are moving forward, for Serbia. And we're not stopping. Because the postulate led by SNS with Alexander Vukic led by the nation in the first place, unlike the former Tikun company led by Dragan Gilas and its Yapured Falanges, which have reduced state investments to their own wakel, the people of Serbia kept in the fog of false pre-election promises and the economy and the economic sector in a flood of economic bankruptcy, filling their national money exclusively with their overseas accounts hundreds of millions kidnapped by Serbian citizens. Now, in folly, due to a lack of common sense, in all ways they try to use lies to attack better than themselves, not choosing means. The machine's brain, Dragan Gilas, along with his cartel and his friends Marinic, Aleksic, Lutovac, Šolak, has been constrained in hatred, not only according to Serbia's achievements in all fields, but also towards citizens. In addition to the evidence of the robbery they conducted while in power, they are today unmistakably denying evidence that they have signed that the Serb people are genocide, and they never in a word condemn crimes against the Serb people. They don't mind mural Achif effendi, a servant of the Nazi regime. They don't mind, of course, the policy of the accumulated 619 million expensive BMWs and "porshes", as they don't mind that during their horrors they ruined as much as they could the Sports Recreative Centre in the Kosutnjak, which was intended primarily for children. They usurped a 2,000-metre-square-square area for only 400 euros a month, because, of course, their greed has no end. He also showed his childcare concern for the children of Gilas's machine-brain with an unpaid addition for newborn babies in the city of Belgrade, as well as for the theft of parents in kindergartens. Not to mention infrastructure projects, health care, education, culture, sports, youth, everything he touched, because that money ended exclusively in their overseas accounts. Now that Alexander Vukic, for them an impenetrable dam, stands at the head of Serbia, and for the people of the pillar and the foundation, they attack him with all the wicked and illicit means, lies and deceptions. Such experts only know that, if Serbia were to return its own senseless policies to the sun, marked only by personal interests, policies of proven fraud. There are no lagging behind the self-called environmental protection organisations, which have also decorated their environment with luxury apartments and millions in accounts, as the tycoons have done with countless media and so on. NGOs that pump fake loans, where they least think about the welfare of the people, but that's why they're fatally committed to their bank accounts, because they don't fit anything that's crucial to Serbia, or the subway, or the new hospital, or the factory, a standard worthy of man. The only program they already know is the excuses of the tycoon and the empty promises, the blood on the streets, the Satanization of other people's family and children, the darkness where the tycoon's tycoons of the past would bring us back. Every triumph of Serbia is a defeat for them, but Serbia is no longer ruled by tycoons and failed politicians, nicked from the swamp of the former regime, which robbed and destroyed everything their greasy fingers could reach. Neither Albanian separatists nor foreign embassies will help them, but neither will the fantastic sums of money they lobby to humiliate Serbia again. Now Serbia is run by Aleksandar Vukic, who is on the defender of Serbian interests and behind whom the people stand. This nation will not allow a new disaster that many want. The people clearly said no to cartels and tycoons. He is building a Serbia that will always go forward, into new victories, the future and dignity for our children that we have been waiting for for decades. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11016	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the provisions on mandatory social security. You have received the amendment submitted by the Government to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment, which is added to Article 7a, was submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we adopted the 2022 Serbian budget, one set of tax laws is up. I guess because they think it will gain some political points, the former regime, because of the global economic crisis and the energy crisis, attacks certain tax policies on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is their right, but at least it would be human to say that the set of these laws, among other things, reduce taxes and contributions to pension, disability and social security, increase the amount of the untaxable work, and that it certainly contributes to increasing the employment rate, fiscal redundancy of employers and leaving room for them to further invest in their industrial plants. But, well, that's their thing, I don't want to discuss it much. It's their right to attack, but I'd like them to be a little bit in those attacks of theirs at least a little honest and that they'll never give a good result that someone's trying to get the citizens in front of some kind of election to cheat. Here, if you look at Gilas' portals today, they will attack the president of the SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, for two reasons most often. The first reason was that he promised Serbian citizens that in 2022, every firstborn baby, or family of the firstborn baby, would receive one-time cash aid of 300,000 dinars. They say - it's a pre-election promise, there's nothing of it, there's no money for so many babies, etc. They say that. There is this professor of the Faculty of Economics, Danica Popovic, who has dealt with some morbid things, the deceased colleagues have plagiarized, but what surprises most about her and the representatives of the former regime gathered around Dragan Gilas is to say that – we are not Switzerland, so we cannot provide for our firstborn babies 300,000 dinars. They're right, we're not Switzerland. We're Serbia. We'd like to be Switzerland. But why, for example, did we, like Switzerland, build a bridge on Ada? The bridge cost citizens of Serbia, Belgrade, however you will, some over 600m euros. If we were to turn that 600m euro, and I say that much of it here and illegally spent, into this help to families with babies, if it is considered that some 60,000 children are born annually in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that the amount needed and which the president promises to fight somewhere around 150m euros, it turns out that Dragan Gilas did not build a bridge on Adi, the amount at which he is paid, so that we have the funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we pay every family that gets the baby amount of 300,000 dinars for four years. Danica Popovic must first calculate whether we were Switzerland when Dragan Gilas built that bridge on Ada. The bridges need it anyway, I won't slow it down, we should have it, but do we need bridges that cost 600 million euros? Again, someone will say, well, you know, but it's a bridge. We know it's a bridge, but let's say about three weeks ago, it seems to me that President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic attended the marking of the construction of a fast road between Pogorec and Golubac, in fact, it starts at the Pogorec payment ramp, ends in Golubac, it's about 70 kilometers away. It costs about 300m euros about 70km of fast road. The bridge on Ada costs 600m euros. And will someone now try to convince me that the citizens of the municipality of Golubac and Velika Gradište do not have the right to have easier traffic communication between their places and Pogorjevac, for example, or Belgrade, which is our capital, because Gilas was building a 600m-euro bridge. I don't think that's the right policy. I'm surprised Danica Popovic didn't take care of that. Or what everyone knows, in this hall repeatedly said, that Dragan Gilas increased his wealth by over 600m euros during his rule, by four years as mayor. For four years while he was doing the mayor's work, the city of Belgrade was Eldorado for him. Also in Switzerland, called Danica Popovic, you cannot earn 150m euros annually. It seems to me that Switzerland in Serbia and Belgrade was only for Dragan Gilas. Now let's go back to the baby number again. Exactly how much money he stole is per every baby 300,000 dinars. Math is very exact. He says the engineer, however, did not count as how poor the baby would be, but as much richer he would be. He did not count on how many Serbian citizens would flee Serbia, but on how much money he would export from Serbia. That's his machine brain counting. That was important to him. So, Dragana Gilas made exactly what it costs to pay for a one-time aid of 300,000 dinars for every newborn baby in Serbia during his government. Take free paper and a pen, count on it, it's in the dinar so much, and then he'll talk about how he has a plan for a better future for Serbia. The other thing, which the former regime, Dragan Djilas, Solak and that unfortunate Vuk Jeremic, together with the Posje, are dealing with, is one good news for the citizens of Serbia, really good news, is that Serbia will get gas in the next six months of 270 euros, as it has been until now, that we will not change the price of heating, that we will not increase the budget deficit to compensate between some new price and the current "Serbian" that price difference. That's the worst thing for the former regime. It is something they say - Russia gave President Vukic for his election campaign. This is what citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have received, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, to save 300m euros in energy crisis. Or to translate again, that game of numbers, the payoff of 300,000 dinars for every baby born for the next two years. That doesn't suit the former regime, that's not good news for Serbia. It's good news for them that citizens freeze in their apartments. For them, it is good news that Serbian citizens are waiting for a liter of motor fuel in rows and columns. It's good news for them that in hospitals doctors decide who they're going to put on a respirator, who they're going to leave to die in the worst troubles. It's good news for them that we're freezing in our apartments and there's no heating in those same hospitals. It is good news for them that there is no heating in schools that our children freeze, because only with their good news can they come to power, and therefore everything that is good for Serbia first of all, attacks, and every penny that the Republic of Serbia gives to its citizens, the dinar is less for their pockets, so they attack every policy. That's why they're attacking everything that's good, and even these tax laws that we're now pleading for. For them, it's a failure. It just shows how much they really love the Republic of Serbia and how much they love their wealth. I have to ask one logical question, well, my people like that brain you can have, well, it's not even for machine guns, that you stole 600 million euros, that you're eating money, you can't eat 600 million euros, and yet you want to go back to power and steal again and be richer, probably for more than 600 million euros. Well, only sick people can do that. It is fortunate that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognise the patients for money and will no longer vote for Gilas, Solak, Miskovic, or Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11018	The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11019	I thank the chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, State Secretarys, Honorable fellow Members of the People and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased to hear all this today from my distinguished colleagues from the Legislator group Aleksandar Vucic – To our children, and what he pointed out today and colleagues Risticevic and many others, because it is now quite clear who wants good Serbia, and who is all bothered by what we are talking about today and yesterday and throughout this week. I would like to take a brief look at all these topics that we talked about here in the Assembly these days, starting with the excellent budget, the development budget, the budget of the future, the 2022 Serbian development budget that bothers them. And who does it bother? It bothers Dragan Gilas and his comrades. Today we talked about great things about culture and even that area, and it bothers them. Why does it bother them? Well, it bothers them because this government, led by Alexander Vukic, invested most in culture compared to several previous decades and as far as the end of the National Museum, and as for the restoration of some other museums. See how beautiful they look today at the Museum of Nikola Tesla and the Ethnographic Museum and the Museum of History, the temple of St. Sava was arranged, the National Library was arranged. It's all arranged in this term. When I say in this term, I mean all those mandates under the authority of Alexander Vukic. What's the matter with them? They're bothered by the Constitution, and they're bothered by the law regarding the referendum. It bothers them. Why? For they are not for the will of the people; they are for the will of the streets; they are for the will of anarchy; they are for the will of the coming of power. What else bothers them? They're bothered by all of this, these wonderful projects we've been talking about these days, they're bothered by both the financial and tax policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It bothers them, and here I am taking advantage of the presence of Minister of Youth and Sports Vanje Udovici, Mr Minister, and it also bothers them about all that has been done and about the restoration of sports facilities and the organisation of sports events. They're bothered by everything you announced the other day, as far as investment in sports is concerned. There is no Olympic sport that the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Serbian government, President Aleksandar Vukic, did not help. There is no athlete who has not won the medal for Serbia without winning the award and competitors and members of the professional staff and coaches and all those who helped. Why? Because Serbia is a responsible state today. There's no resistor where we don't have the results. There's no realtor we haven't talked about that we have serious results. What else bothers them? They also have a problem with strengthening the energy sector. They are bothered that Serbia has responded best as far as the gas crisis is concerned. They are bothered that President Aleksandar Vukic has made a friendly arrangement with our friend, Russian Federation President, Mr Vladimir Putin. They are bothered every time by Aleksandar Vucic, every time in any country, by any agreement he makes in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and all of us. They also have a problem with the SNS Assembly, which will be held by the health god tomorrow. They're bothered by everything. On their, Gilas portals, we can see a number of comments about the great programming principles that will be presented today at the Youth House tomorrow, certainly at the Party Assembly. They have a problem with zero tolerance for corruption. They are bothered by the strengthening of state institutions, the judiciary, the strengthening of our health care. They are bothered by investment in sports and education and in the ugly new kindergartens, hospitals, schools, factories and the opening of new jobs. All that bothers them, and then the citizens need to know who doesn't mind. And all that's good, we don't mind the SNS led by Alexander Wolfich. Now I'd like to say at the end of my presentation today, and what bothers us with the SNS. We have a lot on our plate too. We have a problem with their amateur policy. We have a problem with their crime and corruption. We don't mind the way they perform state functions while they're in power, but let's take it in a row. Dragan Djilas made chaos, mildly said while running some kind of public office of Boris Tadic, after he was Minister for the National Investment Plan, and we talked about crime and numerous abuses he did and kidnapped hundreds of millions of euros from Belgrade and Serbian citizens while he was mayor, one full term and another for a year and a half. Vuk Jeremic, the worst foreign minister in history who made pacts with various world tycoons and oligarchs when he was supposed to take millions, was not interested in him at all, nor in the Serbian national interest, nor in KIM. Who else is in the coalition with them? Marinika Tepic, who was celebrated in numerous affairs while she was the province's secretary in the province's government of Vojvodina and a disaster such as her political career and how much she has an anti-Serbian anti-Serb action. Who else makes that coalition? Lutovac, who was a bad adviser to Boris Tadic, one of the, I think, the worst president in Serbia's history, was then Serbia's ambassador to Montenegro. For a while we didn't even know where the Serbian Embassy building in Podgorica was located, it seems to me that for a long time we were without a seat, and Serbia's worst relations with the Serb community in Montenegro were precisely at the time Lutovac was the ambassador to Montenegro, Tadic was president of Serbia, Jeremic was head of diplomacy, and Gilas was vice president of the DS and mayor of Belgrade. Not to mention their other staff from that circus coalition, as my colleague and friend today called it. That's why citizens need to know what's bothering them and what's bothering us. All that's good for Serbia and what's doing Alexander Vucic is bothering Gilasu, Sollaku and his coalition, and crime and corruption themselves, it bothers us from the Serbian Progressive Party. What do we want? We also want what my colleagues pointed out today, to lead our Serbia to a safe future, and we can only lead Serbia to a safe future if it is led by our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11020	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11021	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, I think fellow MPs who spoke before me have highlighted the importance of all the laws that are being discussed today and these amendments. But we must also point out that these legal proposals and legal solutions rely on the budget we adopted this week. I think citizens in the ongoing discussion have been able to hear for four days now who are the beneficiaries of what budget, but also these proposals for legal solutions will bring to the citizens of Serbia. What is very important to point out is the fact that the financial consolidation of our country began in 2014 and 2015, when we were led by the Serbian Progressive Party, but above all, by the courageous decision of President Aleksandar Vukic, we chose to enter these financial reforms, if we could call them that today and that all these good things that are happening would not be possible if we hadn't made those painful cuts in 2014 and 2015. What we are particularly proud of is the fact that our country has the highest growth rate in Europe in 2021, and that growth rate is measured at even 7%. Also, what is important to point out is that for the first time in history, our GDP will cross 52 billion euros. If we just look at the fact that in 2012, we had a 33.7 billion-euro GDP, you can see how much progress Serbia has made over the last ten years. When we talk about all this, we can't help but notice that at every step of our country, Serbia develops, builds and that at every step you have new kilometers and highways, but also fast roads, railways, bridges, but also parallel to that we increase both wages and pensions. It is also interesting to know that in 2020 there was a year in which the coronary virus found us and which has left many consequences. He left behind the consequences of people's lives, but he also left financial consequences. So you have an increase in unemployment in almost all European Union countries, and somewhere it crosses 20%, while Serbia has managed to fight and preserve jobs in the Serbian government's responsible policies, but also by recognising the situation by President Aleksandar Vukic. We are one of the few countries that continued to attract foreign direct investment during 2020 and 2021, and this year we have reached a level that has exceeded all expectations. I think it's very important to point out for the simple reason that foreign direct investment shows how stable your economy is, how strong it is, but just as much as the conditions for operating foreign companies are good in your country. If you look at the fact that in these most difficult years for Europe and the world we have also had investments from Japan, from Germany, it is further proof of how favourable our country is for investment. You'll agree with me that when it comes to investment, these two countries are kind of the most cautious when it comes to investing their capital, but they are also people representing countries where the particular emphasis is on responsibility. That is why we are proud of the fact that I repeat, in the period when all countries left people without the job of the European Union, when unemployment in their countries grew, Serbia even opened 60,000 new jobs. It's a huge success, and it's something we must always and everywhere draw attention to and what we must all be proud of together. Again, foreign direct investments in the first 10 months of 2021 amount to as much as three billion 140m euros, a huge success for our country and an indicator in which our country will develop in the next period. I'm saying all of this, respected ministers for the simple reason that this strong, stable Serbia, strong economy and independent Serbia in making all decisions, but above all in choosing the path that we're going to go bothers many. It is understandable that some countries in our environment are not happy about our progress, because of our development, but I cannot understand that the people who live in our country, who are citizens of Serbia, are unhappy with this data and who are in their hatred and desire to return to power again, so ready to go so far as to try all these recorded results to challenge. I'm telling you this for a simple reason, which is a few hours ago, and I want the citizens of Serbia to know again the Democratic Party. Very interestingly, the Democratic Party regime of a few hours ago is once again politically alive. They reunited with the desire to continue where they left off in 2012, i.e. to continue with their personal wealth and to destroy Serbia. A few hours ago, they renewed the alliance, although their alliance fell apart, it seems to me a year ago, people who were pillars of the Democratic Party and the regime of the Democratic Party that destroyed, not only Belgrade, but the whole of Serbia. The same people who threw our country on its knees brought it to the brink of destruction, who humiliated it in every sense and sense, and everywhere in the world, today came together again united about two ideas. The first idea is hatred for Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, and the second is a sick desire to return to power and continue with personal wealth. When I say all this, I want to back it up. In fact, out of nine signatories, it seems to me how many there are, five of them were pillars of the Democratic Party. It is Janko Vesenović, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zoran Lutovac and Marinika Tepic, in different forms, she later joined, changed parties, but this God of the Holy can no longer know what time she supported. What is important is that each of these people behind them had the opportunity to be a government at a certain level and to decide for a certain period and to have the money available to Serbian citizens. The results left behind are more than devastating. Each of them remained only remembered for the ugly memory of Serbian citizens. That's what specific data and facts are about. The first among them who is a signator and who says he will run a certain ministry when they come to power is Vuk Jeremic. Vuk Jeremic is a man who has remained remembered as someone who has given Kosovo and Metohija the issue to the true Pristina authorities, who is now elevated to heaven, whom they call the godfather of so-called Kosovo independence, a man whom they thank for every forum and who they see as someone who has only given legitimacy to something they have done by force. I remind you that it is a man whose period of boundaries between Serbs and Serbs have been established, that it is a man who invented the issue of Kosovo and the UN Metohija before the EU, and who, along with Borko Stefanovic, participated in the formation of the scandalous issue before the International Court of Justice. To this I will only add that he is the man who embarrassed Serbia, because he was the chairman of the UN Assembly, and instead of working for the interests of Serbia, he worked for his personal interests. That's what the data tells you about, that a certain Patrick Ho, a man who was arrested in an international corruption affair, him and the Vuk Jeremic Institute, or, as he already calls them, the organisation, so now he has more, financed them, and for which services exactly Vuk Jeremic received that money has never confirmed or said. Interestingly, at the time, Vuk Jeremic lobbyed for jobs and as good as Patrick Ho's position and was even involved as a witness in the whole process. It's particularly interesting that his legal services, look out, he was just a witness there, wanted to show up with lawyers and pay them more than a million dollars. If you're so sure of your innocence, why do you need lawyers and that as a witness? The second among them, of course, and the first among the most important is Dragan Gilas. About this man, I think it is unnecessary to spend more words and fellow MPs who spoke before me have highlighted only one part of the affairs that follow this man. In order not to spread the story, I will ask every man and in this room, but also all those people who are looking at us at this moment, is it possible to enter politics with only 70,000 euros, a used car, "SAB" and a house that was at that moment led to your wife, and that in 2010 or 2012, depending on what period Gilas interprets, you come out of a policy with a wealth of 22 million euros in real estate alone? I don't want to talk about the 619m euros that his companies made directly by trading with state-owned companies. That's the basis for your obvious abuse of position. So as a state official, you used state resources and thus provided extra profits to your private companies. To this all add the fact that more than 53 accounts in different 17 countries have been scattered and 68m euros, so the question arises is whether Dragan Gilas with this alliance wants another round not for new wealth, but for creating another account in another place, far from the eyes of the Serbian public where he will hide another million? The race for his pocket obviously doesn't stop, but now they're not called the Democratic Party, they're called some kind of alliance. What is particularly interesting, respected citizens of Serbia, I want to show you that among these feathers, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic may be the richest, but you have people who have been rich in yet the most perfidious and impertinent way possible. One of the signatories of this agreement is the creation of a new alliance, Zeljko Veselinovic. Željko Veselinović represents the union specified. I will remind you that this is the man who called for the rape of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. It is a man who has insulted Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in the worst possible and most primitive way possible, but also Minister Vujovic and any lady who has collected the courage to represent interests, above all, Serbian citizens, as well as to defend SNS politics. This man, as his colleagues call him, I'm just quoting how his colleagues called him, is a simplest sexticus, and in addition to that, the fact, please pay attention to the following things. He spent three thousand euros in union money on his education. Since he didn't have a college, he paid his university degree with three thousand euros, or his studies. However, he did not stop there. With a union card and money, he bought a dishwasher, two modern LCD TVs, closets, chairs, which were not sent to the union rooms, but to his apartment. So, all union money. He's also the chairman of a sports club's board of directors. It's a football club, a sport that's not so widespread in our country, but he's the chairman of the board of directors there. The union's money of 550,000 dinars has been paid into their account. So, where he's president of the board of directors. That's not all. He wrote to himself every day travel orders and thus took 22,500 dinars, leaving about 75,000 dinars on the monthly level, and did not move anywhere from Belgrade. Dear citizens of Serbia, I've talked about it, but I want to remind you once again, on several occasions, he has taken out 40,000 dinars from the union's credit card account. At that point, it was the maximum amount, I don't know if it's even today, that you could raise from the ATM, but that's not the end of it either. With a strong opportunity, seeing that there was more money in the union, he decided to buy a single vehicle. They decided to buy a car that was necessary for union needs and it's interesting, look out now, please, what's going on, that car bought and cost 300,000 dinars. What's interesting here, and what's very important? The car when it came to the union parking facilities, they found it incorrect, but when other union people got a little involved to see why the car was bought and why the car was wrong, and 300,000 dinars were paid for it, they came up with data that the car had sold to the union, or Željko Veseinovic, no one else to his father-in-law. So he gave his father-in-law 300,000 dinars, and his father-in-law sold him a broken car. It's another one of your signatories to this new alliance. The first on the list among them and I slowly end up with it is Ms. Marinika Tepic, who here was a national MP, who today said with pride that they would beat us and that she guarantees it. Dear citizens of Serbia, I will only remind you that it is a woman who has been celebrated and affirmed by carrying out all kinds of lies and lies, from chickens in Moravic, where she has seen the drug farm, through carrying out the data and throwing out a picture with a man she has said has freed Serbia and Kickindu, correct me if I am wrong, even though he could possibly have three years to various truths that she has been making every day. This is the woman who wanted our people and our country to be declared genocide here in 2016. She is one of the signatories of the proposal for a resolution on genocide, which required the Assembly to adopt it and next to her is one of my colleagues Imamovic, who, of course, is not in the hall today, the same man who accused us all here a few days ago, but above all, the country of Serbia, that we are a fascist country and that fascism grows from day to day. When you draw the parallel between Enis Imamovic and Marinika Tepic, I see no difference and that is why they are together on this list. You can find this list on the Serbian Assembly site, but what I would like to especially point out is that they started to wash slowly, or try to wash Marinika Tepic with statements that she never said that Serbia is a genocide country and that Serbs are a genocide people, but that she said and thought of individuals. Dear citizens of Serbia, this is easy to find. Here, I'm free, I carry this paper everywhere when I go and visit SNS booths and talk to citizens, there's no individual responsibility listed here. Absolutely nowhere. In certain points, point 2) condemns any denial of this genocide. So, respected citizens of Serbia, MPs, if by any chance Marinika Tepic were asked and they came to power, we as MPs or you as citizens should not have told the truth anywhere, which is that there was no genocide committed in Srebrenica. To the very end, when he is already saying that there is no mention of the people and that he does not think of the Serbian or Bosniak people, the honourable MPs, I will read to you the part where he stands clearly and you can prove to yourself what lies there are. Under two, the reasons for the resolution, the first paragraph: the adoption of a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica aims to take the first important step in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia towards resolving open issues between Serbia and BiH, and the Serb and Bosniak people. Now, respected citizens of Serbia, I think in this brief presentation, you could hear and see who is today presenting and offering as an alternative to SNS and President Alexander Vukic's policy. For the very end, we think that in April, we will be able to choose between two and two policies. The first time will be the path of prosperity, progress, salary increases, pensions, investment and the construction of our country and better tomorrow for all our citizens. And that policy will, above all, be represented by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. And the second time, which, as you yourself could hear and see now, brings us back to that dark past when factories were closing down, when more than half a million people were out of work, when we were a country that was humiliated and humiliated, thrown on its knees, a country that was without perspective, a country from which everyone was running away, and only a circle around Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic, rich and made himself an enormous wealth in the white world. I am convinced, respected citizens of Serbia, that you will be responsible, and as always, by choosing the best for yourself and your family, in the April elections to support President Alexander Vukic and the SNS list, but that you will support the future, that you will support the future of both Serbia and your children, but also those generations that are coming. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11022	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of EXPRIATION LAW You have received amendments submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski and the Government to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11023	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. It is absolutely clear that the SNS MPs in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and, on the one hand, we want to make our contribution to dissipating our economy, and on the other hand, to give one clear and quality support to the further economic and business of our country. How important it is that one country has economic stability, political stability, best says the situation of a year and a half ago, two years short of how the pandemic of the coronary virus started and imagine that at the time of the beginning of that pandemic in Serbia was DS and its satellites, that they were leading our country, where we would be today and what the consequences would be, first of all, for the citizens and for our economy. What we did in the previous period, first of all, I will place a clear seal on the work of our country's president, on the work of our government, but also on us in the Assembly that supported all the bill proposals that further strengthened our economy, our economy and made Serbia much more willing to welcome all the challenges that were in the previous period and all that awaits us. Today Serbia has five vaccines. Today, Serbian citizens can choose between five vaccines in the fight against the coronary virus. Today Serbia is building better hospitals, today Serbia is buying the necessary equipment. Today Serbia can pay additionally for our doctors, our nurses medically, then, the staff that works in our healthcare system. Today, colleagues here in the Assembly talked about several projects, about several areas where the state of Serbia has shown a high degree of readiness and high degree of readiness, I would say, the seriousness of investment in different areas, and what gives a special seal is investment in infrastructure. It's the infrastructure that attracts new investments, which fills the budget and through new investments, we can raise wages, we can raise pensions. We all know that a lot has been done in the previous period, but that we have set high goals. Today, nine new highways and fast roads are being built in Serbia. Today, Serbia is investing in railways. She's been devastated for years. Today, it is investing in water traffic in Serbia, in ports. In the port of Belgrade today we invest 200 million, in the port of Smederevo 400 million, in the port of Sremska Mitrovica, in my city, two billion and 100 million dinars are being invested. That says enough how important the government of the Republic of Serbia is, as well as the president of Serbia, how important it is to invest in infrastructure and everything that life means. Today, Serbia is investing in a health system, in schools, in education, in sports. Certainly the news is yesterday's meeting of our president with the president of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, and the news we've all been looking forward to. Today Serbia is one of the few countries, perhaps the only one in Europe that has the most favourable gas price, which will save 300 million dinars for our economy, but above all, for citizens, and on the other hand, we will have enough gas and energy for the period that awaits us. Of course, what it is also looking forward to is the fact and proposal that the president made to improve the birth rate in our Serbia through additional donations for the firstborn child. That's something that's good. But what is not good and what really represents something that is inconceivable on the political scene in Serbia are individual political organisations and parties that condemn such good, quality proposals. I'm going to quote to Mrs. Alice Kockar, who is a spokesman for the DS, who yesterday said that the measures of population policy are shameful and it is absolutely clear that it will not contribute to an increase in the number of women and men who will decide to start a family. Is it possible that someone today, when Serbia is fighting a battle with the white plague, says such measures are shameful? Is it possible that someone could even think, if the state stood behind a young couple, behind their parents, when they wanted to directly financially help additionally, that it was shameful? Of course, for DS, it's embarrassing, but for them, it's not a shame that they shut down the factories, that they destroyed the institutions. It is not a shame that young people, just during the DS, since 2000, have largely left the Republic of Serbia and were leaving and it is not a shame for them to leave the empty register of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. It's not embarrassing for them. They say from the DS that the proposal of the President of the Republic is one insult to women and young people in Serbia, that it is an insult to women. And is the curse addressed to the mother of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, is that an insult? Of course it's not for them. No statement condemned the attack on the president's mother, on his family, on members of the SNS. This is enough to say what policy is being led by DS and all those who today have been united in just one goal – to come back to power, to rob the Republic of Serbia again, to ambush the state's dens again, to empty state registers, and the people are not interested. Of course, in the voting day, I, along with my colleagues, will support the proposed amendments. This is another piece of evidence that the SNS is leading one responsible policy, a policy that will contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11024	The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11025	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished co-workers of the finance, co-workers and fellow MPs, as the amendment to the Expansion Act is on the agenda, I will first discuss the subject. I'm really confused with the reactions in one part of the public about the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. That is why I have carefully read the old text of the law and what is changing, so the changes that have been made and I have not been able to understand why this part of the public is protesting, calling for protests, expressing disdain and calling for some roadblocks, etc., which is completely incorrect and not civil responsibility. What I noticed by reading the law is that only the deadlines that are scheduled for the actions of individual bodies participating in the expropriation process are shortened and, in fact, the efficiency of the whole process is increased. Expropriation, regardless of which user the user is involved, shall be carried out by the municipal or city service responsible for property-legislative relations. That proposal shall be submitted within three days to the owner of the property subject to expropriation. It shall be declared within five days, if there are ambiguities within three days certain clarifications can be made within 15 days, or the municipal administration shall issue a solution. If anyone is unhappy, he complains to the Ministry of Finance within 30 days. Of course, one who is not satisfied with the monetary satisfaction of the confiscation of property, i.e. immobilities, may address the court, i.e. in cases where no agreement is reached, the documentation shall be moved from the municipal administration to the competent court. After 60 days, then after that period, an automatic court procedure is launched where you will see which party is right. I don't think anybody's here and nobody can be damaged except by increasing the efficiency of the whole process. I'm going to give you an example from Nis where the expropriation lasted for three years, with people working very hard on that job. It is 12km of Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway, the part that passes through the town of Nis and the 12km covered 1,938 plots with 2,260 plot owners, some 110 hectares. It is always the first to adopt the PGR plan document to be entered, of course to surrender to the cataster, and therefore to expropriate city building land. You know, there's a lot of owners who died and whose property isn't run on some heirs or heirs are not known or there's a desert debate going on. In that case, this law provides for a temporary representative, i.e. that the competent authority of the municipality assigns a temporary representative, hires an attorney's office to represent the owners until they appear and take the case into their own hands. But, you see, 12 kilometers from about 2,000 plots, with over 2,000 owners and a three-year procedure due to long deadlines, is really a luxury. That's why the legislator decided to cut deadlines and I don't see anything wrong with it. As I see nothing wrong with the fact that other than for the construction of new objects, expropriations can also be done in the case of adaptation, reconstruction or addition of existing objects, and in addition to all those mentioned in the old law, telecommunications infrastructures are listed. Of course, telecommunications is something new. At the time of the old law, such objects are not much. Today, telecommunications is always in expansion and, of course, this new law, i.e. changes and additions, includes that area. I'd like those who dispute the Expropriation Act to say exactly what's bothering them in these changes and additions? To say which member, what position is that, what does that refer to? Well, even so far, the state could declare any square of private property a public interest and exempt it under certain conditions. There is nothing new, all that was needed to build infrastructure facilities or objects of special importance, special purpose, for the municipality, for the city, for the Republic could be subject to expropriation. It is only important for the price to be compensated to the citizen, i.e. to be objective, to be realistic, to be marketable, to be built once, because in certain cases the price is higher than the market in some other market larger than the building market, all depending on where the land is, or the facility. That's why you're mixing the so-called. "green opposition", i.e. various movements gathered around the Green Uprising etc., I absolutely can't understand but they should be carried out in front of the bracket with concrete questions, what is it that bothers them in the law, let's see if we open the law, we go member by member and see what it is that you are not satisfied with? So this law doesn't apply to Rio Tinto or anything like that. This law aims to quickly expropriate land that is necessary for railways, for highways, because these facilities pass through a large number of parcels with a large number of owners. Moreover, the rest of the plot on the left and right of the railways is also exempt and paid to the owner if there is no way to reach it or if assessed, the expert estimates that the owner has no economic interest in processing or using that part of the land. At least it was in the case of the city of Nis, and I can tell you that there were no complaints about over 2,000 solutions issued by the municipal administration, i.e. the property-legal sector, no complaints, no complaints to the senior body, the ministry or the court. Also, I have to turn really, really look back on President Vukic's visit to Russia yesterday and on a brotherly agreement reached between the two presidents. The result of the meeting and these talks is fully expected for me, as this is the result of a long-term Russian Federation policy towards Serbia and Serbia's policy towards the Russian Federation, which is also long-term, and particularly correct since the SNS took over the exercise of power. Serbia is the best partner of the Russian Federation in Europe, and Russia has once again shown that it is the most reliable strategic partner and support of the Republic of Serbia. I will only remind all of us that only a few weeks ago Russia, I think it helped China, too, refused to recognise in the Council of Security of the newly appointed deputy in BiH, to verify his mandate, and also to veto his appearance at the Security Council session, where he was to read a report that presented untruths regarding the Republika Srpska's Republic and the behaviour of Republika Srpska's leadership. On the other hand, also a few weeks ago, the Russian Federation vetoed the Security Council to prevent UNMIK from withdrawing its mission from Kosovo, wishing not only for Pristina, but for all those who contributed to Kosovo's independence and who are there. "Independence of the state of Kosovo" immediately acknowledged. You know, for them, Kosovo is already something that was born, it's independent and now this UNMIK administration, it's completely unnecessary, it's too high. That's how they think from the point of view of that logic, it's the right thing to do. However, we find it different. We believe that Kosovo is not independent and that the presence of the UNMIK administration, i.e. the UN, is in fact saying that Resolution 1244 is still in force and that it should be a orientation and direction for resolving the Kosovo issue. But I now want to say that it's very interesting that on November 15th, it's only 10 days before our president's departure to Russia, in a printed media funded by Dragan Gilas, the text of one of your historians came out, I saw later on Google that it was a duchy separatist, who says - Putin and Vukic joined in the fierce destabilising of the Balkans. So that's what Gilas media says – Putin and Vukic destabilise the Balkans. Otherwise, the historian they transferred earlier wrote that the Cetinje committees and others defended the plight of anti-fascism, a very clear attitude, a very often guest of editorial politics, or the Radio-Television of Montenegro, and in connection with President Putin's visit in 2019 on 17 January, the same analyst had the title – Putin in Belgrade, Serbia on his knees. It is interesting that all anti-Serbian portals and media are taking it for analysis when analysing Russia and Serbia's relations. Montenegro's radio-television says it is even one of the most relevant politicians, and Radio Sarajevo – This is dangerous, Serbia is implementing a policy of destabilisation of neighbouring countries, again the text of the same author. Of course, on the same wavelength there is also a Kosovo foreign minister, a certain Mrs. Donika Gerval, who says - We are the real Europeans here in the region, we are warning again, there is a possible war, Serbia and Russia are guilty. I must remind myself that Vjosa Osmani and Albin Kurti are almost always in statements when in a negative context they mention Serbia, they also add Russia, likely to animate the attention of their Western allies. But let's return to the fact that Gilasom's media has published a text that contains the same views that those in Montenegro who are against the interests of the Serb people, those in BiH who are against the interests of the Serb people and those of the kiM who think all the worst of the Serbian people. In addition, Dragan Gilas is an certified Russianophobe, and in a dispatch published by Wikiliks Envoy Jennifer Bras, she openly praised Gilas as a trusted co-worker in reducing Russian influence in Serbia. Gilas boasted to the US envoy that such a firm anti-Russian stance had brought him into an unspeakable position within the party's power. So, instead of praising the agreement reached on the price of gas and whatever the price is for now for six months, I am firmly convinced that the same or very similar price will be formed and certified and by the long-term agreement of the two countries, the opposition, or, more specifically, the former government here is now talking about destabilising the Balkans and destabilising the region with Russian and Serbian moves. When it comes to these laws that were also on the agenda today and the previous days, as counterpart Ugljesa Mrdic said, I have a need to look back a little bit, regardless of what is the basis, which is the untaxable part of the profits increased from 18.300 to 19.300 and which contributes to pension and disability insurance to the employer's burden is reduced from 11.5% to 11% of the Republic of Serbia's budget will be more full by 28.5 billion compared to the projection, or rebalancing from October 2021. Also, I noticed that the donations made to the PIO Fund and the Health Insurance Fund were not significantly increased from the Republic's budget. Some increase in donations to the PIO Fund from the Republika Srpska budget, but this is due to these tax cuts, so only 125 billion will go from 108.6 billion to the projection of October 2022. That's 15.8% compared to 14.8%, as projected in October 2021. I see the Republic's budget for the Health Insurance Fund has been reduced. In fact, an 8% increase in wages in one part of the public sector and 7% in that second part, an increase in pensions of 5.5% made the Health Fund have about 23.24 billion more independent revenues, so the need for the Republic's budgetary intervention is lower and it decreases by 77.6 as it was projected in October, to 73.6 billion going down. Also, the National Employment Service will get 5.3 billion out of the budget instead of 11.3 and they will withdraw less money, which is about the stabilisation of these funds. Otherwise, I must commend the amendments and additions to the Law on Income Taxes of Citizens and the amendment and addition of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, where not only extends by one year, by the end of 2022, the use of certain benefits in terms of the exemption from part of the tax or part of the contribution in respect of these other laws, but new exemptions are introduced for certain categories of enterprises, companies, entrepreneurs, etc. Under certain conditions, everything aimed at reducing the grey economy, to speed up the reporting of workers, to speed up employment because it essentially reduces the tax and contributes to the employer's burdens. Of course, the laws also absorbed some modern legal solutions, the Law on dual education of students and students, and where students are scheduled to make a certain fee by working with the employer, because the Law on dual higher education provides for this, students are exempt from paying taxes and contributions to that part, and young people up to 40 years of age their annual income tax on citizens is reducing the base, except for all those reductions they have, is reduced by three average earnings in the Republic according to data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Those working in the field of research and development will not be paid, i.e. they will not be paid a PIO contribution of 100%. They will be released, and the contribution to the profit tax will be reduced by 70%, etc. There are several categories of those who will have tax reliefs. Of course, this will lead to the PIO Fund making slightly less money, so this year 125 billion are on the side of the state instead of 108, as projected in October last year. This will also make little less money based on the income tax in the Republic's budget, but given the increase in profits in the public sector 8%, 7%, pension 5.5% of total income tax of citizens will be 8.1% higher than in October 2021, respectively, compared to the projection of the second rebalancing. And in general, all tax revenues other than corporate income will be higher, only it will be smaller because of one conservative approach in planning revenues. Non-tax revenue will be lower, but only they are extraordinary. Regular non-tax revenues are planned in the same amount, and those extraordinary in terms of paying half of the profits of public enterprises and paying the agency to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, they are conservatively projected because they do not yet know the starting parameters for their closer design. In any case, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is both developmental and social and the fact that, for non-financial assets or infrastructure and capital projects, 18 billion more will be allocated than in October 2021, a total of 407 billion, says Serbia is moving forward. I thank Serbia, live Serbia, live Serbs wherever they live!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11026	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Mr. Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11027	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers with associates, I have suggested that in Article 29, which is otherwise being changed, some of the things that are needed to be fully clear. Namely, it is the 5th position which will be position 8 after these changes, where a good thing is predicted that the authority conducting the expropriation procedure may appoint a temporary agent in the event that the owner of the immovable property entered in the cadastre has passed away and no process has been conducted to discuss the legacy behind his death or the process of establishing ownership of the immovable property in question. What I have suggested to supplement here is that I think it is very necessary because of the procedure itself, which is to add the part where the temporary agent is appointed also in case the owner of the immovableity of the unknown residence or for any other reason is unreachable to the authority that runs the procedure. These things cannot be understood under such predetermined provisions as proposed by the legislator. Therefore, the full scope of the possibility of setting up a temporary representative for which, in practice, the need to exist so far has been expanded. The next thing you know, no matter what anyone can say, but that's not what this bill says, I suggest you make it clear that a temporary agent is putting a burden on the user's expropriation. So, not on the burden of the budget, but on the burden of expropriating users from the ranks of lawyers, and according to the order to be taken to the bar. Why? The interpretation can lead to the establishment of a person who is not qualified to represent other people's interests, hence all the rules that bind lawyers on how to step up and act during the proceedings and represent parties clearly define in which way they must protect the interests of persons whose interests they represent, even where they are a temporary representative. So, this kind of temporary agent should, I also suggested that it be explained in this article, that it proceeds all the way to making a strong solution to expropriation. So, it does not participate in the part where it comes to determining the amount of compensation, the right to compensation and the management of that part of the procedure, but that is why I added another part that says that the right to conduct the procedure for determining the amount of compensation, as well as the right to compensation for exploited land to persons whose interests were represented by a temporary agent does not become obsolete. And if so today, with very frequent changes in the views of court practice, we can come to a situation where what has been common so far, some legal other regulations are regulated to question. In this way, we would fully protect the interests of immovable property owners who, for any reason at this time, cannot personally participate in the expropriation process, allow uninterrupted expropriation with interests that are maximumly protected and able to compensate for market performance at any time whenever the landowner appears or resolves the question of which it is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11028	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11029	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear truly summed up explanations and discussions of my colleagues when it comes to sets of laws that are before us today and that we are discussing today when it comes to amendments that are proposed. It is clear to all, and to the citizens of Serbia, that all this that has been before us Members of the people so far has come in their interest, and the laws we have voted for and have brought into the interest of further and better development of the Republic of Serbia and raising standards of life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think absolutely this period from 2012 to today, and when we deal with both statistics and this quantitative but qualitative analysis, it says clearly that the policy that President Aleksandar Vucic is leading is a policy that puts the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia first. And today, colleagues have mentioned this conversation that the president had in Sochi with President Putin of the Russian Federation, where much has been agreed on. But what was most important was that the price of gas in the next six months, which is precisely the period when the warm season lasts, will continue to be $270, which is absolutely important for the development of our economy, because we are therefore becoming a fivefold more competitive area for the arrival of investors and is certainly allowed not to affect the standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. During that period, we also worked on further gasification of the Republic of Serbia. You know that now we have a project, this is the gas interconnector that will be with Sofia, which will continue to work on ensuring stability in the supply of energy. It's just the works and the results of the policy. I note the deliberate actions and the results of the policy and work of Aleksandar Vukic, who is absolutely an example of the leaders who are really very few in the region, who are sincerely fighting with their energy and strength for the interests of citizens. We've heard stories here and stories from colleagues when it comes to members of this cowardly or boycott of the opposition, who today know for who knows what time they can unite, and the only thing that they can unite is the continuation of the robbery of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and what their name, the name of that foreigner says, the release, the release, the release and the financing and the money, to free us from the roads, the infrastructure and the future that they talk about, because the only thing that matters to them is to continue to fill their pockets, because 619 million is little, and they've really shown themselves skillful in that game called 619 million, so they'd like to rewind that same game. We also see on social networks that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot easily cheat, because in fact, no special unification is involved, but probably marking some anniversarys, as we have an anniversary of graduation, as well as an anniversary of the collapse of the Democratic Party. Because all those who have gathered today to say that they have united were actually once members of that same yellow Thai Democratic Party, which was harassing Serbia and who did not care about the young. She didn't care about demographics, she didn't care about the future of this country either. The only thing they cared about was their own future, and we can clearly see that by the successes they achieved as businessmen while performing public functions, while being abused they achieved enormous profits. Since they ran out of public chairs, these profits have fallen, and the money they've been putting in their pockets apparently disappears slowly and that anxiety continues to grow. Young people were not taken care of because young people were declared one of the most prospective and competitive things they could take out of the Republic of Serbia. Why take it out? Because they worked hard not to create any future or perspective for these young people. They were, unfortunately, looking forward to leaving Serbia during that period, although they knew it was a difficult decision they had to make, but because of their existence and because they didn't appreciate it in their time they had to do it. This is how the SNS in power and research show and we have talked about this many times that these young people are coming back to Serbia today. They are successful graduates, academics, and they want their knowledge to cash in and make Serbia an even more competitive place. We see today and with the investments that come that we are really heading towards the development of a knowledge-based economy. The measures and proposals we heard from the President of the Republic when it comes to demographic policy, where every firstborn child from January 1st 2022 will be paid cash compensation of 300,000 dinars, is something that came under criticism from those members of the yellow opposition, the yellow tycoon regime, who immediately said that the money you cannot buy and improve the demographic image. They said the same thing when the first measure was taken where each firstborn child was decided to pay 100,000 dinars. They said the same thing, and when it turned out that the measure had produced results, they immediately shut up, as well as for any other activity that the SNS had undertaken, starting with highways, raising infrastructure, bringing investments to Serbia, which they naturally criticised, and when the results came up they immediately shut up and no longer talk about these topics. What Mr. Arsic was saying about some economic experts who say Serbia has no money to pay these 300,000 dinars, so I would not agree because it has proved absolutely this period that everything the president has announced, which is promised and fulfilled. He does not announce it lightly and does not deal with marketing as Dragan Gilas did. Also today, politics by Dragan Gilas is about a classic market where he tries to show himself as some person who cares for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for citizens of those towns and municipalities that go around and trying to figure out which way to cheat, and in fact they forgot that Serbian citizens have no short memory, but that they remember the period well, the yellow tycoon regime and what they've made of their cities. I'll just look back at Kruševac, where they shut down and shut down a large number of factories, put people out of work, their family with no perspective and no future. A city where streets that didn't have holes could be counted on their fingers. Also, the traffic lights that worked, which were functional, you could count on your fingers. They worked to destroy giants like "14. October", the Zupa factory, the Maziva factory and everything that worked and worked in the city, and the Kruševec city budget were used to fill their own pockets. And when they were doing reconstructions, we all know that they were trying to get their own backyards together with those reconstructions. The moment the SNS came to power, it was minus in the Khrašvec cash register, unfinished and not closed projects, starting with their famous and famous plateau reconstruction in front of the House of Unions, which was disastrous and time-consuming that the project had not been able to withstand the time period for which they claimed it would last. The moment we settled it, when the town of Kruševec is full now, when we solve problems in the city, when we have reconstructed the centre and we are building a new part of the city, the settlement of Airport, of course faster and better race who will sooner with the announcements to attack both this government and Mr. Gasic and Alexander Vukic, accusing them of all sorts of nonsense just to pass it on to individuals and try to collect some cheap points. The institutions that do their job are here. The judicial institutions have also proved to the verdicts that they are nothing more than now and court-confirmed liars, because all they bring out is actually a pure lie without any argument, without any contribution that would support what they say. In fact, all they do is one classic marketing where they try and think they're going to get the citizens to vote for them again or to allow them to continue that robbery they did, fortunately by 2012, only because the citizens in the elections and the ballots beat them. And today, when you see what campaigns are being conducted, and even on this law, that is, to amend and supplement the Expropriation Act, and also on the Law on Referendum that we have talked about, when you ask those people who have, in some way, accepted that marketing for them is bad for us, and when you ask them – what bothers you specifically in these legal solutions and when you ask them – did you even read the legal solutions that, as such, lightly, accuse them of being bad and you reject them, they will, of course, say – no, because they think that what Dragan Gilas is and this whole machine that he employs as a machine brain to tell the truth. In fact, when faced with the arguments we make to them, they realize that all these legal solutions that are still before us are in the interest of Serbia's further development. When we talk about the Expropriation Act and how important it is, all these changes that are ahead of us today to allow important capital projects, and not only capital projects, but let's start from those local projects when it comes to paved certain streets, unfortunately you have in Serbia where you have unresolved property-legal issues, that it is not possible to allow the individual's will or the int of an individual to prevent something from being done which is in the greater interest of citizens and locals and the environment. It is absolutely clear to all of us so far that all the legal solutions that are here before us are made solely because of the interests of citizens, not because of the interest of certain individuals or foreign capital, and we will, of course, try to help and enable both domestic and foreign investors who are interested in investing in the Republic of Serbia, to help further develop the Republic of Serbia to create conditions for these ideas and implement, but of course before consulting and asking the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11030	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Predrag Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11031	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been having an intense discussion these days about very important laws. One of them caused a certain storm in the part of the public, I would say, based primarily on the lack of information, the intention of the malicious to stab negative emotions among the citizens of Serbia, so we got all kinds of messages about how we're taking someone's grandfather, how we intend to do about it without asking anyone, take what's his and tap into private property, which is all nonsense, but the demagogues always shake hands with the fact that the form is essential to the essence. I've heard one argument that's quite interesting. It speaks of the lack of proper respect for private property in Serbia and then of legal solutions, let's say from the United States, where the fact that our legal system is significantly different from American, starts on the basis of Roman law and that it is a continental legal circle, unlike an American that belongs to Anglo-Saxon, is derived from it. I'd like to ask those who from the academic community this way criticized and felt that an individual should be in the first place, and the community completely marginalized, so why do they not advocate any other solutions from that same system? For example, in America, judges are elected to direct elections at some levels. Why don't they propose that they be elected by citizens in direct elections? Why do they not advocate the introduction of the same presidential system in Serbia if America is their role model? Or, for example, are they not in favour of those moments that talk about the greater representativeness of citizens at different levels by the fact that the electoral system in America is fully characterized by the elements of the majority and most of the single-circuit majority? Because they're calculating where they think they're comfortable with something, they're going to propose solutions from America, where they're getting answers, solutions from China, where something third suits them, a solution from Germany, but in any case, they're not thinking about the needs of citizens, and they don't care what kind of system we're going to have at all. They, less, all have different combinations and views of this country and do not view it as their own. Their state of Yugoslavia has disappeared, they have never regretted it, and they in continually only suffer for it, and Serbia is seen as some nightmare that is fleeting and from which they will wake up sooner or later. But I would say, to their damage and regret, and fortunately for us, the state of Serbia is there to stay, it has survived various conquerors, it has survived various occupiers and aggressors, it has survived various betrayals, but it is there again. The budget we adopted is a developmental, investment budget. I would look back at a few moments that are, I think, very important, and above all, they're being embossed by the fact that one adequate platform is finally being created, which is rounding up a platform that's been being created for years, which enables our president to actually continue to run a genius foreign policy in the way he's done both the fruits and that kind of policy, and now that we're getting a price for the gas that minorities are getting to the Russian region. It certainly didn't fall from the sky, and we certainly wouldn't get that if President Vukic was not respected on all sides of the world and Vladimir Putin didn't see him as a serious leader, who is actually now the first state of this part of Europe. Because still in his day Kissinger was talking about how he doesn't know when he calls Brussels who's gonna answer the other side and he doesn't know who "Mr. Europe" is. Today when any world statesman calls Southeast Europe and wants to communicate here with adequate political entities, he first comes to Alexander Vukic, and that's what Angela Merkel does, that's what Vladimir Putin does, that's what Si Jinping does, that's what Americans do. Because they know that Aleksandar Vukic is "Mr. Southeast Europe" and that without him it is absolutely impossible to resolve any open question, i.e. to answer all those questions that modern civilization faces, especially in these areas where the Serbian people live. When it comes to investing in the Foreign Ministry, I would notice that for the first time in this way adequate funds have been allocated evenly distributed and seriously increased for the reconstruction of our diplomatic and consular representations around the world. I've had this privilege and the opportunity to visit several recently and to make sure that it was really necessary to invest in this matter, that it was recognized and that I am glad, and that we will now be able, in that technical capacity, to accompany what President Vukic's policy is, in a way that is actually appropriate, at the very least. Because the state of Serbia must lead foreign policy in one responsible way, in a way that is not megalomanic, as some predecessors did and then dragged us into serious problems, especially in a way that is sovereign. The concept of sovereignty which is the basis of the operation and the SNS, which will be presented in particular tomorrow at its congress, is in fact what will lead Serbia throughout the 21st century. I think these decisions are of strategic character and that it will only show how important they were and how important Alexander Vukic's and the SNS' moves that he led were visionary. It's important to me to point out something else. Investment in infrastructure today is not a question of some distraction in the way that the former authorities have done, and the current opposition since 2012, when they knew that they had paved 50 meters in some suburban settlement or in some place, so to say, here, we have made something big, and then to open, say, one institution or home of health 11 times, as the leaders of today's opposition and then the regime. No, I don't. Our investment in infrastructure is today such that we can boast that without borrowing and to the greatest extent without borrowing and without concession we have managed to cross Serbia's highways and deal with those problems we have had in the continuum decades ago, such as the Belgrade Metro. Now there is an interesting question, which has certainly not just come up and is likely to be placed by certain intelligence structures from the region, with the aim of actually having a fight with each other. There's an apple of discord I'd like to point to here. So it is said -- and why should the citizens of Serbia, say Banat, or, say, Pomorava, separate money for the Belgrade subway, when they do not live in Belgrade? Wait, that's nonsense. Belgrade is the Serbian capital. It's the city of all of us, regardless of how many of us, here I am, the first one, we're not born in it, or we're not adults in it, but he's the city of all of us. He bears the burden when it is most difficult and he should actually be the Dick of all of us, because our capital is not only the capital of the Republic of Serbia, but the capital of all Serbs, wherever they live, and we should be proud of him. Belgrade cannot be there only when it is meant to educate citizens of Serbia, as a centre of the university, cannot be there to just treat citizens of Serbia, or to be treated in it, or to be there when it is meant to economically develop Serbia and offer jobs and to be the engine of the development of this nation and this state. It must be there for all of us and when, of course, we all need to bear the burden and new infrastructure projects such as the Belgrade subway, and in order to be proud of it tomorrow and whenever we come to Belgrade for business reasons or for personal pleasure, we can move easier and faster for them. Don't just fall for such apples of discord as did the Yugoslavs, inspired by the intelligence services in the region, and with the aim of arguing in continuity with Serbs, those from the north with those from the south, to fight Serbs from Belgrade with those from the inside or to fight Serbs with those who are born in Serbia and those who live in the region. They're traps we've been in too often and we can't allow ourselves anymore. There's very little of us in the world to share. The new Sad-Belgrade super fast track, which will function in the first quarter of next year, is not just an infrastructure project. As someone who comes from Novi Sad, I'm saying it's a project that's actually of multiple national importance. That super fast track will once and for all kill every idea of separatism in Vojvodina. And here's why. By connecting the centre of Novi Sad and the centre of Belgrade with the way that you can arrive several times a day from the centre of the largest Serbian city to the centre of the second largest Serbian city in less than half an hour, we will have many more people living in Belgrade and working in Novi Sad, many more people living in Novi Sad and working in Belgrade, many more people connecting, making friends, marriages, employment, etc. In these two cities. It's going to be one of those same conglomerates. We're actually going to have one of those same wholes. In this way, in fact, any idea of separatism in Vojvodina that always exists is going to be shut down once and for all, because Novi Sad and Belgrade will become one and the same. Remember these words of mine. It won't be fast, and it won't be just overnight, but in the next few years, possibly a decade, we'll talk about one of these same projects, that's one of those upgrades, the greatest pride and development of Serbia, because the GDP's gross will actually be intellectual forces right there, and we'll have a continent of no one in this part of Europe in the area from Novi Sad to Belgrade. It will be a continent with which none from Vienna to Istanbul can be measured, and it is not a small matter. That is what those in the region who are strategically considering these topics are very aware of. Croatian nationalists have had a serious Belgrade complex for decades. They have the largest complex because they don't have one million cities, and that's why they look at it so much at the same time with envy and contempt. And imagine only with what contempt and envy they will observe the whole of Belgrade and Novi Sad's supercity, especially because all those who want to give us some exclusiveity and extravagantity of the Serbs, in this part of Serbia, in the north, in Vojvodina, will want to teach us and explain to us that we are much more valuable and better than what they are and that we should be separate. Here, I am the thirteenth generation born in Vojvodina, the thirteenth generation born in Backo. I don't think I'm any better or worse than the Serbs who come from other parts, either Serbia, or this part of Europe, I absolutely don't think. I think that we all Serbs are obliged to follow what our ancestors left us, so that in the future we can leave the offspring with what they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11032	Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11033	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 63 of the applicable law, paragraph 2 reads: “The mortgage established on exploited immovableities is transferred to the immovable property that is given in property or co-opted on behalf of an expropriated immovable property or to any other personal property. “ Here I suggested that this part that says - or some other personal property be deleted, and here is why. If the mortgage was a security measure that only a debtor on his property could establish, there would be no reason, no need for such a reaction. In practice, more cases have occurred that people who have established a mortgage on their assets to do someone a favor so that they can raise a loan or secure another one of their debts, and their mobility has entered into the scope of expropriation, have come into a situation for the mortgage to be entered on an asset they would never place as collateral for other people’s debt. So I can decide to put a mortgage on a part of the assets I want to risk, possibly in case he doesn't meet his obligation. But since it's not about my debt, it's absolutely illogical and unfair that because I come into a situation where some immobility can enter the stage of expropriation that mortgage will be transferred to the house, or an apartment or something that is very important to me and that I would never pawn for anyone, or maybe even for myself. So the reason for correcting this is very clear, very obvious and how time is moving away, and the more we build and work in the Republic of Serbia, the more often these situations will become. This survival of the legal text, I think, can cause irreparable damage to certain people, will simply affect that what we have already lost quite in mutual relations, which is the desire to help someone, the desire of solidarity, mutual assistance, are further threatened and questioned, and we have never needed again to think healthyly, well-think each other, and without the risk of those we do not want, we also create a situation for some people to make progress, and thus that the Republic of Serbia is making progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-26-0.u11034	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. I thank the government for supporting our work today. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Friday, November 26th, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m. as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I call upon the Members of the People to enter the great hall. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask all Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 155 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law and Amendments and additions to the Law on the Budget System. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 157, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for - 160, he did not vote - one, a total - 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. I conclude the vote: for -161, a total of -161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. Third item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Tax Tax Act on Legal Persons. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and given that no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for -161, a total of -161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax on the Income of Citizens. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and since an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the Government, which, after Article 20, is added by members of 20a and 20b, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. I conclude the vote: for - 159, it did not vote - two, a total - 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. The fifth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to Taxes on Use, State and Wearing Good. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods, in principle. I conclude the vote: for -161, a total of -161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the First Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for -16, it did not vote - 145, total - 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods, in general. I conclude the vote: for -161, a total of -161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods. The sixth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on Property. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. Final vote: total -161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of – 161, for – five, did not vote – 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. The seventh item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Competences for Mandatory Social Security. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and since an integral part of the Law proposal has become an amendment to the Government, which, after Article 7, is added to Article 7a, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The eighth item of the agenda - a proposal for a BUDGET INSPECTION Act. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft budget inspection bill in general. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on budgetary inspection. Point 9 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Exploration Law. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Government to Article 2. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act in principle. I conclude the vote: total – 161 for – 159 did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of – 161, for – five, did not vote – 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of – 161, for – five, did not vote – 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 161 for – 159 did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act. The tenth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly, under Rule 160(3) of the Rules of Procedure, will decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act in general. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 158, they did not vote – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. The 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 A year. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I would also remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 of Section 2 of point 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the final account by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget by majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the agenda, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only the draft laws in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Employees in Autonomic Areas and Local Self-Government Units. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Polyptimism and Rural Development. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development. We move to a vote on points under the regular number of the 14th and 15th agendas. As we now move on to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. agreements and laws governing public borrowing, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3) and (6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing public borrowing and conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The fourth item of the agenda — Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the International Monetary Fund under the General Allocation of Special Rights of the Towings granted by the Governor of the Inter-North International Monetary Fund of 02. August 2021. A year. I'm putting this bill to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The 15th item of the agenda — Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between KFW, FRANKFURT ON MINE (KFW) AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA REPRESENTIFICATION OF THE FINANCE (JOYPRMICAC) FOR THE ‘INTEGRISED MANAGEMENT OF TERMINATION’ PROGRAMME, phase I. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine ("KfW") and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Finance Minister (Lypoprimac) for the "Integrated Solid Waste Management Programme, Phase I", in general. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to a decision on the 16th item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all MPs on the resolution of members of the National Council for Culture. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution of members of the National Council for Culture, in general. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to resolve members of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. Paragraph 17 of the agenda. Given that the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for members of the National Council for Culture, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises most of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to a decision on the proposal of members of the National Council for Culture from the list submitted by authorised proposings. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zoran Vapa as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Vapu as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zeljko Markovic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on a proposal from the National Archives of Serbia. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has selected Zeljko Markovic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Vasic as a member of the National Council for Culture, at the proposal of the National Museum of Serbia. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly chose Goran Vasic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Vladimir Pistalo as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Library of Serbia. I conclude the vote: total – 161 for – 159 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Vladimir Pistal as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Nebojsa Kundacina as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Theatre in Belgrade. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Nebojsa Kundacina as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Neven Dakovic, on a proposal from the Yugoslav Cinematheque, as a member of the National Council for Culture. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Neven Dakovic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect academic Ivan Jevtic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Art Department. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly has selected academic Ivan Jevtic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect academic Zlata Bojovic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, Language and Literature. I conclude the vote: total – 161 for – 159 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has selected academics Zlata Bojovic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Isidor Bjelakovic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of Mother of Serbia. Final vote: total – 161 for – 161. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Isidor Bjelakovic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Andras Urban as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Councils of National Minorities. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Andras Urban as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr. Suzana Kujundzic Ostojic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of national councils of national minorities. I conclude the vote: total – 161, for – 160, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Susan Kujundzic Ostojic as a member of the National Council for Culture by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate on your and on behalf of the members of the National Cultural Council in the election and wish them success in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you, everyone.
