ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9343	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs and MPs, distinguished media representatives, it is indeed a great pleasure to see you again this week and what I can, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture and Information, as a formal promoter, be able to present to you in the main lines this very important law, and we have only a few members of the law, whose text I am sure you have met, because we have passed the bill on a regular basis. So we have a bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery, whose adoption from tomorrow we will ensure the support of the Republic of Serbia to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The draft law, which is set before you, is part of the activities that I announced at last session, which the ministry is taking to create a good regulation that systematically regulates the protection of cultural heritage in our country as one of the most important segments of culture. In addition to this law, there are already laws adopted, the Law on Museum Activity, the laws that we have already discussed, and the Law on Cultural Heritage, where we have recently completed a public debate and now we are adopting all these objections that we have received from the professional public and I hope that soon we will debate this law here in the tide. Since its founding in 1198, the Hilandar monastery has been a unique centre for Serbian spirituality, culture, education and traditions, and in this sense represents an invaluable value for our cultural and historical heritage. Along with the entire heritage of St. Gora Atonska, Hilandar is listed in UNESCO's World Cultural and Natural Heritage List. As I have pointed out, the most important objective of this law, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to achieve, is to ensure the continued support and assistance of the Republic of Serbia to the Hilandar monastery. The support will be seen through the reconstruction and reconstruction of parts of the monasteries of the victims in that catastrophic fire in 2004, as well as the preservation of all other parts of the Hilandar monastery, including the immaterial cultural heritage. The state of Hilandar's support has not been questionable in the last decade, but we are now creating the possibility of having a permanent, certain and secure financial support for the Republic of Serbia's budgets for the first time. In support and assistance practice, the Republic of Serbia will take action through its competent authorities, implement programmes related to the preservation and care of historical, religious and cultural traditions of the Hilandar monastery, as well as the monitoring of the situation and research, presentation and interpretation of mobile and immovable cultural and historical heritage, as well as the monitoring of works on that heritage. In addition, Serbia will help reconstruct and other measures to protect existing facilities and build new facilities of Hilandar monastery, conservation, restoration and other measures to protect other historical cultural heritage in the form of monasteries, which are frescoes, icons, manuscripts and others. The law provides for the support of the state in the part of its own activities by Hilandar and the duties of the holy monasteries aimed at improving conditions, safeguarding, ongoing maintenance and presented heritage, as well as the sustainable development of monasteries. The commitment of the Republic of Serbia will also be to participate through its competent authorities in the organisation of celebrations, significant dates from history manifested by Hilandar and perform other tasks of importance for the preservation of tradition and cultural historical monuments. You have seen in the bill itself the most important individual objectives of this bill. I'm not going to give them to you specifically because you have a taxicab listed in the proposal itself. What this law also provides is that the government educates the Hilandar monastery Commission as a special and permanent working body of the government and determines its tasks and composition. As you've met a similar Commission we have now. Its head is traditionally the minister in charge of the field of culture and information. It's me this time and it's the first time in history that a woman is headed by this important body. So, it's a great honor, and Minister Popovic, who is present here today at a session together with me, is my deputy. The bill provides for the reconstruction, reconstruction and preservation of the Hilandar monastery to be managed by the Hilandar monastery itself and by the officials and, of course, in direct co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Commission of Governments and competent institutions for the protection of cultural goods that will take part in considering and adopting work plans and to consider the report on the works carried out. Here, you have seen that budgets are scheduled to be allocated for each current year by the Budget Law, and we will do so for the first time this year after the adoption and entry into force of the Bill that we are discussing today. I will remind you once again that one of our greatest saints had a major disaster 17 and a half years ago in the form of a catastrophic fire involving more than half of the monastery complexes in the walls. It was then that the monastery peaks from the 14th to the 19th centuries burned down, and the fire destroyed the entire buildings, the infrastructure and caused great special damage to the destruction of the monastery's warehouses. Thanks to the support of the Republic of Serbia, works to restore the monastery and eliminate the consequences of the fire have largely been completed. So far, Serbia has defined a billion and 767 million dinars for the reconstruction of Hilandar, the most individually, in this 2021, for which we have singled out and paid out 360 million dinars, primarily thanks to President Alexander Vukic, during which visits were reached early this year to immediately allocate all the missing funds for reconstruction and completion of works in Hilandar monastery. In addition to the completion of the restoration of parts of the monasteries of the victims in the fire, there is an activity in connection with the active protection of heritage that has not been affected by the fire and in this sense we are passing this law, which marks the permanent concern of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the state over the Hilandar monastery. Dear People's MPs, the sacrificial heritage is the largest part of our cultural heritage, during the centuries of the existence of the Hilandar monastery, has gained the status of one of the symbols of Orthodoxism with a very important role in the development of the spirituality and culture of our people and the state. For this reason, we have an obligation to preserve and cultivate the cultural heritage that our ancestors have left us, as well as churches, monasteries, cathedrals, mosques, all other monuments of culture in our country, as well as those that are relevant to our culture and history. It's not just a debt to the ancestors, it's a supply for the future and survival. I call on you today to consider the provisions of this law and, after that, since there has been no and no amendments to the bill have been tabled, I urge you all to vote and support this draft law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9344	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I'm asking if the representatives of the committees want the word. Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9345	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments Proposal for a Law on the Conservation and Protection of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery was unanimously adopted at the session of the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information. This law lays down a way of supporting Serbia's Hilandar monastery as a single centre of Serbian spirituality, which has invaluable value for Serbian cultural heritage, but as a world cultural heritage. The primary objective of this bill is to continue supporting the monastery through the release of financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget for each current year, so that Hilandar will re-literate with full glare after the terrible fires that hit him in 2004. The Hilandar monastery was erected by St. Sava and his father St. Simeoma, and the development of the monastery was supported by both Emperor Dušan and St. Stefan Uros and King Milutin, as well as the Serbian dynasties Obrenovic and Karadjordjevic. Today we undertake to care, support and take care of our Hilandar and us and future generations, because it is the treasure and the center of our spirituality, which is built on holiness, and we are just on the foundations of holiness built and we Serbs as a people. Last week, we adopted the Law on the Protection of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters in this esteemed home, and it is good for citizens to support the fight we are fighting to protect Serbian identity and Serbian cultural heritage, because it is certainly one of the most important struggles fought by President Aleksandar Vucic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. This year will remain remembered for what we have really done for our cultural heritage and what we have shown above all respect for ourselves as a people through work, works and results. This year we completed the construction of the temple of St. Save, we have erected a monument to Stefan Nemanja, the progenitor of the Serbian state and founder of the Hilandar monastery, and I think we have finally managed to restore faith to the Serbian people in the strength and power of the Serbian state, primarily through economic progress, but also through a sincere struggle to protect our national and national interests, through the construction of new railways, roads, hospitals, but we have managed to restore faith to the Serbian people and unity. Also, we managed to restore faith to the Serbian people and to the power of the SPC, which is the most responsible for the survival of the Serbian people and which has often led the fight in very unfavourable, social and historical circumstances, but has never given up on that fight. Today we finally have good co-operation between the Serbian church and the Serbian state. When the Serbian Church and the Serbian state are on the same task and have a common goal, then Serbia is invincible, then Serbia is first and then Serbia is unstoppable. We today more than ever have to listen to St. Save and St. Simeona, because we are expected of great challenges in the future, in the fight for KIM and Republika Srpska, and when we are united and united as a people, we can really do anything that proves to us and shows our glorious history. How did we complete the construction of the temple of St. Save, since we've killed Stefan Nemanja's monument, we'll also be keeping accounts, worrying, supporting our Hilandar, because St. Sava left a vow that every Serb for life would visit Hilandar for once and care for Hilandar as his own home. That is why I call on you in the day of voting to support the bill on the preservation and protection of the cultural and historical heritage of St. Hilandar, because it shows that we are ready to fight, that we are willing to fight for what is the core of our national identity and the seal of our eternal struggle for Serbia and for Orthodox religion. It is important that we care and safeguard everything that the Germans have built, especially Hilandar, but especially at this time, the Serbian cultural heritage and churches and monasteries on KIM, which are currently the most endangered in Europe, which represent the anchor and cross of the Serbian people, but no one will succeed in taking them from our hearts, or removing them from the place where they are laid forever, and that is one such legal solution we prove. We show that we are prepared to endure this fight as long as it takes to preserve our Serbian, cultural, religious and identity heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9346	I thank the Committee on Culture. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Dr Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9347	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, chairing the co-worker, respected other vice-presidents of the National Assembly, respected Deputy Prime Ministers and respected ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today we have an important topic ahead of us, a topic that requires us in the form of the proposed law to put forward views of thinking, suggestions and suggestions that will mean the confirmation and definition of our awareness of religious and cultural heritage, today in the form of this law regarding the material, cultural heritage of the Hilandar monastery. This is another important step towards the country’s determination to turn to everything that is important to its people. The state is the home of citizens who are worth as much as those citizens, the people who live in it. Once upon a time in certain circumstances, this country may have had some other direction, a direction that was at odds with its people and its citizens. Many decades of states have not felt what citizens think, believe, and feel that it is very important to them. When a state is at odds with the cultural, spiritual values of its people and citizens it cannot be a good state, because the state does not exist for itself, it exists because of the people, i.e. citizens and it proves its quality and its value in quantitative, qualitative, every sense, including the very shades of subordination and commitment to protect everything that is worth to the people, or citizens. It is therefore unimaginable for the state to be against what is traditional, spiritual, human and all other values of its citizens. To focus on the cultivation of what citizens have, or people in the country, means to have a country that is aware of its role, which knows that it is subordinated to citizens and subordinated to the people, and then the state goes the right way. When consciousness, definition, courage, and strength are shown to protect, and in legal form, what has been in place for years, and it has been no longer protected or deemed to be out of the country's domain. This means another step towards harmonising the behaviour and treatment of the state with its citizens and all that is important to those citizens. Anyone who has read or informed about Serbian spirituality knows what for the Serbian people, including Orthodoxy in a broader sense means the Holy Mountain, and especially the Hilandar monastery. Therefore, there is no doubt that from the position of the Serbs, the Serb people, Orthodox people in this country, this has the significance of the highest possible degree. Of course, we who do not belong to Orthodox faith, but live in the country of Serbia, live together with the Serbian Orthodox people, and have been brought up in our spirituality and in our families that respect for another, different, even drastically different, especially those who intertwine in spirituality in elementary, ethical and spiritual postulates, as Christianity and Islam intertwine. So, for me personally and also for the other People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and I am certain for other members of Islam is to the extent that the state of Serbia will show respect for the spiritual values, material and not material nature of the majority Serbian and Orthodox people and churches, that to this end we can, both in ethical and political and legal terms, expect that this state has sensitivity, and we have also heard this in the explanation of the Deputy Prime Minister, both for the cultural material and non-material treasures of other religious communities, i.e. other religious communities in this country, such as the Islamic community, the Catholic Church and other traditional churches and religious communities. Especially given that this step is not only of a spiritual political nature, but that we are here today establishing a legal framework for support, all kinds of support, for this material, spiritual and cultural good, and this is based on the country's budgets, and the country's budget and budgets, as you know, are formed equally from all citizens of this country regardless of religious, ethnic, or national membership. So I understood this, not only through the text of the law, but also through the arguments we heard, but also through those arguments and assurances that we get through various forms of written and not written agreements in partnerships that we build here and in this National Assembly, but also at other levels within state communication and co-operation. Thus, the value, the hilandarian value, is highly bound and significant for the Christian Orthodox and secular spiritual and religious circle, but there are values that are cultural and that exceed that narrow religious circle. Because when you have, say, one library that crosses over 40,000 copies, what is a library in Hilandara, which also has the most valuable samples of the old first Bibles and six pieces, then a certain old charter and more than 380 copies, etc. So, it's a cultural wealth that, yes, belongs to a narrow Orthodox-Christian, cultural-religious circle, but it was the basis for this cultural heritage to be declared at UNESCO's global importance, in fact, that such cultural potentials are actually part of the world's cultural potential. Therefore, the protection of cultural and historical treasures in this case is not only in the dimension of the protection of the cultural and historical treasures of one people and of one community, but in fact a contribution to the general, global culture in a material sense, its protection and certainly its affirmation. But all of this makes sense, and we've heard this in reason by the Vice-President of the Government, not only as a debt to the past, but as an expression of consciousness towards the future, because the relationship to the protection of cultural treasures from the past is just a fundamental relationship of our positioning towards culture in terms of consciousness, in terms of the very dynamics of our operation in this direction. Therefore, what needs to be based on this awareness of the protection of old cultural goods, or cultural heritage from the past, is our relationship to cultural religious mildness, energy and potential, and how we will use it for the future. We are today, both in a time and spatial context, in a certain ideological cultural disorientation. It's not just the problem of our country, or the people who live in this area, but it's a crisis, the spiritual ethical crisis has affected the entire Western civilization. So that's something we can't underestimate. Since our orientation is to be geographically in Europe, to have political orientation Eurointegration, these are all moments that we must take into account and carefully, thoroughly, professionally and resolutely analyse how all of this will be maintained on us in the personal, family, spiritual, rope religious and wider cultural sense. So these are very important topics, even most important ones. Other elements of the crisis that are seen in an ideal ideological sense, and it concerns us politicians and political parties. You'll have a problem today, let's say, if you decide to ideologically determine most of our political entities in this country. So party names are one thing, party programs are something else, and party ideology is something third or most often something that doesn't exist. True, if you see this phenomenon superficially, you may say – well, well, it doesn't matter today. Yes, it doesn't matter if we only have day-to-day and non-particular interesting orientations, so we're not interested in the essence, we're not interested in depth, we're not interested in the future, we're only interested in a certain political, daily, party or personal profiting or mixing. In that case, it is not about ideology, it is not about spirituality, and it is not about justification. But I'm afraid we shouldn't allow most of the key, dominant political factors in this country to be without ideology and without spiritual matrix and justification. Of course they'll never be able to be with that depth and with that foundation, but those who want to think about the future of this country can't separate themselves from this topic and say it doesn't matter. That's why I look forward to turning to ancient values and what I want to prefer here on the recommendation of all of us, is that the chance and future for this country, for the people and the people who live in this country, for all the citizens and for others in the environment, and beyond, is actually to return to ancient values with modern political and cultural discourse. So we need again or we just need the right ancient values. Why am I speaking ancient values? Well, because I'll never agree that something that's been going on since yesterday and the day before yesterday is worth it. It says new values. There are no new values. There can be new trends, there can be new modes, there can be more recent experiments, but there are no new values. This formulation is neither language nor logical nor ethical. The value can't be new. What's new can be a crazy formulation, a new image, a new suit, a new shoe, a new tie. So it can't be a new value. In order for something to be worth it, it has to pass a test of tradition, a test of history, a test of thousands of years and be indisputable as a value in different and different cultural civilizational blows and winds. If that doesn't go away, it can't be worth it. We have this through various forms and political programs and legal solutions that are being forced and imposed on us from various sides, we have talked about it in various other topics, imposes as a new value, and even that so-called. the new value imposes as a higher value. What's not worth can't possibly be a value, let alone a higher value. So it's a scam, a prank, it's violence culturally, ideally, ethically. Whoever agrees, prescribes an idea, cultural, moral death to himself and his family and his people. Of course I don't want any part of it. Of course, my party with four MPs cannot primarily influence this direction, but what we can and do is to tell the truth in the most beautiful way possible, in the most cultured way, and I am convinced that in this National Assembly, most of the people who have real spiritual, ethical and real human values in their breasts, even though they didn't even know, could or could not, had freedom or had no freedom, to say them in the right way. Therefore, it is very important, not only in a narrow party sense, but in a broader and deeper political sense, that we have as many votes as possible, as many ideas as possible, as many platforms that restore ancient values that certainly deserve modern discourse, modern rhetoric and modern formulation. In this context, I must admit that I was refreshed with optimism after hearing the speech of Patriarch of Serbian, Mr Porphyri, recently in the Sava Square. Please, if you didn't listen to that speech carefully, listen to him again. So it's a speech that, as a member of the faith that is in the minority in this country, but a monotheist faith that has consent with most of the ideas of ethical, cultural and religious spiritual settings with Christianity, has brought back optimism. After a long, long time, I must admit, I heard a speech from the head of the Serbian Orthodox Church who simply had the depths and courage and spiritual and intellectual to offer the platform, above all to the Serbian people. One new platform with a new degree of determination, refreshment and reform in the church itself, in the very idea of Christianity and Orthodoxy in terms of what is originality with an emphasis on calling to fight paganism, to fight everything that is anti-Christian, and which, under various circumstances, always settles in every church or community after some time as dust in the house. You don't have to make dust to get it together. The dust always gathers, and unless you have regular activities removing that dust, you will always have it in abundance. So, that speech, please, listen again and you will see the definition and message that, in my opinion, is very necessary for all Serbian political parties to actually try to reset their political views according to such a message, at least in principle and at least on the basis. Of course, every political party should have its own political, economic and social programme, etc., but policies that have no spiritual foundation are inconclusive, they will not survive in the future, and above all they cannot be patriotic, because what is in conflict with God, in conflict with Etos, in conflict with the most important ethical and historical through the whole history of proven values, in fact, the only values, the ancient values, can't even be patriotism. In this context, I also observe this law, which should be adopted, but in the context and these announcements, we will look not only for a declaration, but we expect that the Islamic Community and other churches, in particular the Islamic community with the Altun-ale mosque, with the Novopazar Banja, with one of the oldest hams, with Gaza Isa's Hammam, appear before the state, in front of the Ministry of Culture, in front of other competent institutions, where this consciousness, which today demonstrates itself in the form of this law and a full sense of the entire material and immaterial treasure of all the citizens of this country, regardless of what religion, nation, culture and religion they belong to. In that context, on that matrix we can build this country at the full capacity of what should be a homeland, which should be a country, which should be a state, as a home of all citizens who will feel safe, safe and warm in it, who will carry out their obligations to it and make their commitments to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9348	I thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. The word has been authorised by the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9349	Thank you. Honored chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues - Hilandar. Do I, when I say Hilandar, create in you an inexplicable sense of respect that you simply do not need to find a reason for which this respect is conditioned? And this very feeling is proportionally equal to the importance Hilandar has for the Serbian people, but also for the world heritage at all. So I would say that today we have the opportunity but also the honor to talk, and I hope in the day of voting and adoption, one law that continues one of the brightest traditions of our people, and that is the tradition of borrowing. In this way we respect the tradition of restoring metaphorical and real debt to our people, but also the place from which the debtors originate and preserve them from oblivion and transfer them to some future generations and our children. The responsibilities have an enormous importance in preserving, developing and promoting culture and education, but also in science and art of every nation and it is impossible to talk about the development of education and culture without mentioning the many responsibilities that were primarily the function of the school at the time they were growing up, educated a number of generations and, as such years later, grew into universities. For example, in Captain Misha's charge today is our largest university in Belgrade. This, for its own, but also for today, a magnificent building that represents a symbol of the city of Belgrade, left to its people for education by Captain Misa Anastasijević to repay his roots. Not far from there is Kolarce's responsibility, which was raised as the first National University and which still has an immeasurable importance in popularising science and art. It is simply impossible to list all those indemnities that have left behind and well-known Serbs to their people, but also prominent individuals and throughout Serbia throughout history have been founded hundreds of indemnities. In time, some of them were, unfortunately, destroyed or extinguished or failed to restore their work, so we can hear about them either from dedication or from persuasion of legends. In any case, the duties have their deep roots and remind us of what our history, our past, remind us of our ancestors, and thanks to them we learn much about Serbian rulers, our people, everything we must be grateful for what we essentially have today. During the darkest centuries for our country due to numerous wars and the loss of territory and their own state, it was precisely the duties that kept our culture from oblivion and symbolically represented the light at the end of the tunnel, which our people needed over and gave strength to rebuild and rebuild their country over and over again. That is why I would like to mention that in Serbian history there is simply no debt that is more significant than that of the founders of the Nemnjević dynasty, i.e. the debt is manifested by Hilandar. The importance of passing this law that we are talking about today, the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of St. Hilandar is so much greater if we observe it through history, because the very work of Hilandar over the centuries has had a powerful impact not only on religious life in Serbia, but also on Serbian literature, art, but also on the acquisition of legal and scientific knowledge of that time and represented a vital bond between the entire Byzantine and Serbian culture. The Hilandar has been training the highest layer of the Serbian church, literature, theology, and they have produced a brand-new layer and scientists in this institution but also taught people and represented a kind of university that we have today, as prominent theologians and artists and writers of that time passed through it, and thanks to which we now have knowledge of the numerous writings of that time. I also mention that thanks to the relative protection of Hilandar, he has avoided the fate of almost all other medieval monasteries that have often, and even several times been robbed, destroyed, and for this very reason, the Hilandar today represents, that is, the most preserved treasure of Serbian medieval culture, original frescoes, icons, manuscripts, and can say that today it is the center of Serbian culture, tradition and our spirituality. That is why the Hilandar monastery as a special building of invaluable importance for the preservation of our cultural heritage, along with 19 other monasteries and the entire heritage of the Holy Mountain, has been included in the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1988. Due to all this, the Law on whose proposal we are discussing today represents the formal but institutionalised support that the state thus provides to the Hilandar monastery and thus preserves the monument of Serbian culture, in order to preserve the continuity of the importance of the borrowing in Serbia, which it has for our people and what a special dimension. The aid, donations and the provision of assistance and recognitions to Hilandar existed at the time Hilandar was created, as the employee of Stefan Nemanje, and the reconstruction of the Serbian state was renewed and the aid sent to Hilandar. First, the founders gave the monastery 100,000 grosses, then Aleksandar Karadjordjevic sent 500 ducats a year, the Kingdom of Serbia paid off the debts of the monastery, and later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, apart from numerous kinds of aid and donations, symbolically sent assistance to Hilandar in the amount of 30,000 dinars at the time. The kind of turning point in the aid given to Hilandara was in 2004, i.e. the fire that was created in Hilandara, covering almost half of the monastery complex. There is an impression that somehow after this unkind event, the interest in the assistance to Hilandara has reached its peak in terms of aid being provided from all sides, and by institutions, the international community, by individuals, organisations, companies and perhaps it was in some way threatening one such aid, i.e. it pointed to the necessity of continued assistance to be provided to Hilandar in order to potentially warn all events, such as the fire that was in 2004. Those who have ever set foot on the holy mountain say that its spirit remains in them forever and in the heart of anyone who feels it. Whoever was in Hilandar, he brings with him some inexplicable feelings and some sense of peace that simply cannot explain or overcome, and in that very sense I would mention, or quote to the Holy Sava who said in the Hilandar tip – no place on earth can be compared with this and it really is. Everything we call Serbia today, everything we call Serbian culture, the sacrament, was founded right in Hilandara. The Hilandarian type, and then the Karean tipik, including the Law or the Krmchi as it is called the Civil and Legal Regulations of the Byzantine State, which was translated in the early 13th century, should remind us of the importance of having a Law in the age in which it came into existence. Can we even imagine today what that significance is for the time when it was created, we have one law book. Can it be said that no one on the planet at that time had a collection of laws in that scope as was the Law. So I think that we need to learn more about legislation, we need to teach kids in elementary school, we need to learn about it in colleges, at least to the extent that we do, our children are learning about Magna Carta libertatum, or the Grand Charter of Freedom of 2015. I think he deserves the same attention as the document I was just talking about. St. Sava introduced many rules in the law on social rights, but also on the protection of the poor and disfigured people, and a whole chapter applies to women’s rights. In this context, we can say that it represents an exaggeration of all the rights that we today mention in this context and that we have regulated by a number of laws in our country. Finally, I would say that Hilandar keeps the greatest valuables of the Serbian people in his treasure monastery. Maybe the public still doesn't know what it's like or what it's worth, as well as where it's located. Of course, all of this is going to be in the time that's ahead of us. I'm sure it'll be the focus of this law. For this reason, the SDPS will fully support this law in the voting day, respecting the importance it has for the preservation of our tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9350	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9351	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President Kovac, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Popovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St. Hilandar, as our academic Matija Beqković, the only continuous Serbian link, would say. In history, Serbia was enslaved, even the Serbian church burned, banned. The only Serbian identity, the only Serbian seal that has lived all the time since its founding in 1198, is the Hilandar monastery. At first, I must say, on behalf of Unique Serbia, on behalf of Dragan Markovic Palma, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group and on my personal behalf, that we are proud to be discussing today the law on the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. We are proud to be a generation of MPs who will first pass a law that will fulfill the vow of the Holy Sava that each Serbian head takes care of the Serbian house, the Hilandar monastery. By adopting this law, each Serbian citizen will take care of the Hilandar Holy monastery, its invaluable historical, cultural, and I would say spiritual heritage, i.e. the state of Serbia will in one institutionalised way take care of the preservation and protection of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The world of Gora is a monastic republic. What is the Vatican for Roman Catholics, it is the Holy Mountain for Orthodox Christians, by being a state, without all other insults, the state ceases to pray, the state ceases truth and justice, a constant cry for unity and love. In such a significant territory, the Holy Sava felt that Serbia should and must have a holy monastery, such as the Hilandar monastery. Today, 2,508 inhabitants live in St. Gora. We have 20 monasterys, 17 Greek, one Russian, Pantelemon, one Bulgarian Zograf, and, of course, our Serbian Holy monastery Hilandar. The Hilandar monastery is one of five monasteries of importance in the Holy Mountain. That is why every fourth year, the representative of Hilandara becomes president of the Holy Gore, prot, of the Greek word protos. You can imagine how important this is for both the Serbian people and the Serbian heritage and the Hilandar monastery itself. Do you know that in the holy mountain today, apart from having these 20 monasteries, we have 2,508, I said, the inhabitants, in the Hilandar monastery, we have 50 monks, 10 temptress? That's a lot more than, say, the 1990s when there were no more than 20 monks. Annuals between 15,000 and 17,000 people visit the holy monastery Hilandar, 15,000 to 17,000 people spend the night in a monastery, receive two meals a day and transport from the port to the port and from the dock to the monastery and all for free. Why? Because Saint Sava has made a vow to the monks of Hilandar that Hilandar is the house of all Serbs. Then how do you charge the hosts overnight and food? Hilandar is the only Serbian monastery where you cannot leave money on an icon in a church. If someone wants to make a donation, they can contact one of the monks who is in charge of communication and give or make a voluntary contribution, but they do not ask anyone, because Hilandar is the home of all Serbs. With this law, it is not important that we just institutionalise the preservation and protection of the cultural and historical heritage of St Hilandar's monastery, but because of this law, every house, every Serbian head, we join each Serbian citizen with Hilandar. We MPs in the National Assembly by voting for this law, wherever we are from Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Prokuplja, Subotica, unite the citizens we represent with the Holy monastery Hilandar. That is exactly what this important historical importance is about the adoption of this law. There is no Serbian ruler who did not care and helped Hilandar, if you look and come from the Hilandary temple, the Hilandary Church, there is certainly the Holy Prince Lazarus who built one escort, the Holy King Milutin who built the second escort and restored the first one built by St. Sava and we see only in the temple the Trinity of Lazarus, Milutin and the Holy Sava. Not to mention what Emperor Dushan did during his stay, he spent two and a half years in Hilandara during the plague. He bought 600 acres of land for the Hilandar monastery. I don't know dear colleagues and colleagues do you know that the land of the Thessaloniki airport is owned by Hilandar, that the pillars come from the time of Emperor Dusan and that the Greek state still recognizes these deedes and that symbolically but pays the rent of that territory and that land. We can often hear some negative things about the Obrenovics in history, but Alexander Obrenovic is also one of the great donors of the St. Hilandar monastery. Namely, I said a few words to Matija Beckovic that Hilandar is the only continuous Serbian link. At the time of the Turkish occupation, only Saint-Gora was not occupied by the Turks, but the monasteries in St. Gora paid for a large harak. In the lack of money, monasterys borrowed money from each other and remained a large Hilandar debt to the Bulgarian monastery and Aleksandar Obrenovic bought all those debts. Even at a time of communism when Orthodoxism was in some way suppressed, persecuted, there were even then Serbian politicians who assisted and took care not to a large extent, but helped and took care of the Serbian Hilandar monastery. Such an example was Dobrica Ćosic who planted vineyards in Hilandar with then-Iguman Father Mitrovica, although he was politically active in the Communist Party of then-Yugoslavia. Our great Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovic, who is held in Orthodoxism to be one of the two most favoured men with Father Justin Popovic, the bishop Nikolaj, sent a letter from the Dahau camp asking Serbs to take over at the St. Hilandar monastery, because he knew the rule that if Hilandar falls to under seven monks that Hilandar's management and management would take over the Greeks. In a prison camp, he took care of Hilandar monastery and took care of St. Sava's vows that every Serbian head anywhere took care of that sacred Serbian house. Who are we today to give ourselves the right when we enjoy the blessing of strong and stable Serbia to forget that vow of the Holy Sava? All our rulers took care of the Hilandar monastery, but I must stress that today, as never before, the state separates not only for the Hilandar monastery, but for the SPC. We finished St. Sava's temple on the Wizard. Renovating, restoring, numerous monasteries, well, here we are today adopting for the first time the Law on the Protection of Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Hilandar monastery and this is how we seal, an identity seal, because we are forever combining our continuous link between the Holy monastery Hilandar and the people of Serbia. I repeat once again, this is how we fulfill the vow of St. Sava, and forever we will institutionally guard and protect our Serbian house that he has left for us. Unfortunately, we haven't had the law we're making today. We had the Regulation at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was later abolished by these yellow Gilas scientists, and today we have a bill of law that will be passed and that will remain as a provision forever, as a obligation and for future generations to follow and honor the vow of the Holy Sava and to make this law an eternal bond of the Serbian people with its House Hilandar. We must never forget that sacred vow. This law that we are passing right now is proof of Serbia's strength and progress and that Serbia has both strength and resources, but above all that it has the will and faith to take care of our cultural identity, our cultural and spiritual heritage, our legacy and the vow of the Holy Sava that each Serbian head takes care of Hilandar and that every Serbian male head visits the Hilandar monastery. This law does not aim only to materially care for Hilandar, the administrative status of monasteries and monasticism, but primarily to fulfill this vow of the Holy Sava. It is today in this high house, in which we have passed many laws, that we unite and pass a law on the most important Serbian house, about the only Serbian house that exists continuously since its founding, from 1198 to today. Every hand that is raised for this law today will be blessed. I said both the Russians and the Bulgarians have their own monastery on the Holy Mountain. Both Russia and Bulgaria have passed laws on their monasteries like this which we will vote and bring these days. One Romania, which has only an estate and several monks in the Holy Mountain, has a law that regulates the functioning and attitude of the state towards the property and monks and annually sets out around 900,000 euros. I must proudly say that the city of Jagodina, from which I come, also helps Hilandar, to help the health and hospital home help the hospital in Hilandara, that the Jagodina doctors go and help treat the monks in Hilandar, that the family of Dragan Markovic Palma has a special relationship with the monastery, and there is also a situation where the trustee is a monastery resident of Hilandar Jagodina Milos Stojkovic. The Hilandar is among the five monasteries of importance in the Holy Mountain. One third of the property of the entire holy mountain belongs to the Hilandar monastery. No other monastery in the Holy Mountain has so much property, forest, property. That's what you need to worry about. All of this is cared for by those 50 monks and 10 temptations, as well as by those who volunteer to help, as well as workers working on rebuilding the monastery that burned down, as you said in 2004, and where more than 90% of the facilities and things are being restored. As a nation and as a state, we are obliged to form and to guard what is left for us by our father-in-law of the Holy Sava. Hilandar is visited not only by people from Serbia, but from all over the world, from Russia to America, from Putin and Medvedev, through Prince Charles to, say, Leonardo Dickaprio, Orlando Bloom and others. The Hilandar also opens its doors to those who are not Orthodox Christians, for the Hilandarian monks respect and follow the teachings of the Holy Sava, that all men should be respected and loved. A good example is that, for example, during the Turkish occupation of Greece, the Turkish Pasha had a child thanks to the miraculous lineage of St Simeon Mirocivo and that he donated 1,100 hectares of the country in gratitude. In Hilandar, there has always been respect for the right to nation and commitment, which is the highlight of Orthodoxism, because Orthodoxy is nothing more than freedom. But Hilandar is also the seal of our Serbian identity in every respect. We've got our own auto-chefal church from Hilandar. St. Sava from Hilandara took the path of the Vaseljelen Patriarchy, to seek out an auto-kephan church and the idea of our auto-chefal Orthodox Church came from the Holy Sava and the Hilandarian monks. It is important that during the last 300 years, SPCs were all episcopes and archbishops. If you look at the Pećko Patriarchy, this home of the SPC, the place where the Serbian patriarchs are enthroned, and if you look at the kivotes there, you can see that the Holy Savas are the first, the Holy Savas the second and all the others were actually the Hilandarian monks. I don't know if you know the fact that the custom of celebrating Christian glory was also from Hilandar? This Serbian Orthodox seal, because no other people celebrates the glory of the cross, has just taken place with Hilandara and the history of Serbian Christian glory is, in fact, the same history of Hilandara. Because of the importance of Hilandar by honor, not by authority, the Serbian patriarch and the iguman hilandar are located in the same level and when they stand together at the celebrations side by side, because so the Serbian patriarch shows honor not as an iguman, but as a representative of the sacred institution of the SPC, our starting point of faith and nation, as a sign of respect for the Hilandar monastery. So today, by this law, I repeat again, we unite the people with Hilandar and fulfill that vow of the Holy Sava. I call upon you today to support this law, because we do not pass this law for anyone else, nor for the EU... Besides, speaking of the EU, Hilandar monastery is the only monastery on the Holy Mountain that has refused assistance from European funds. The monks there simply wanted to protect, to preserve the Serbian seal in the Hilandar monastery. We're making this law today solely for our own sake and for our identity. So I call upon you, together, to support this law together, and to remember well the day we united the people and the Hilandar, to remember the day when as a people, we were obliged to institutionally preserve the icon of the Holy Mother of the Trinity, one of the four most respected icons of the Mother in the Christian world, before which not only Orthodox Christians pray, but people from all over the world, and thanks to which we have thousands of documented testimony about the miraculous powers of this sacred icon. By this law, we have committed ourselves to guarding the sacred lineage of Saint Simeon of Peace, who came out of the Hilandary Stone itself in the place where our Holy Father Simeon retired. Never planted, never watered, and here is more than 800 years of producing miraculous fruits. We made a commitment to guard the well that St. Sava and the monks dug and never dried up in 800 years. We have committed ourselves to safeguard the olive tree of Emperor Dushan, to preserve the monastery's treasure for the invaluable cultural and spiritual heritage of our people. Today, we have committed ourselves to safeguard the unity and unity of the Serbian people and the Hilandar. Today we are bound by this law to protect ourselves, what we were, who we are and who we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9352	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9353	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Popovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's session of the draft law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery, which the government has submitted. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" in the voting day will support this law and other proposals from this session and vote for it. At the previous session, we discussed and unanimously adopted the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life, protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. With this bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St. Hilandar, we are finally paying full attention to the spirituality of the Serbian people. When we talk about the Hilandar monastery, each of us, Orthodox believers, but also citizens of other agnostic religions, atheists, immediately think of the notion that is inextricably related to the entire Serbian people and represents one of its greatest symbolic identities. The proposer himself is already in Article 2. The bill gave one spirit legal but emotional definition of St. Hilandar, as a monastery that has been uninterrupted since its founding in 1198 as a self-government monastic institution that represents the unique center of Serbian spirituality, culture, education and tradition, and represents an invaluable value for the Serbian cultural and historical heritage and has been entered together with the entire heritage of St. Gora Atonska in UNESCO's World Cultural and Natural Heritage List. I don't think there's anything to add or take away from this definition. If so, then perhaps the most natural duty of this state and people is to take care of such holiness in the best possible way, within the limits of their objective possibilities. Unfortunately, when we look back in time, we have to admit to ourselves that it wasn't always that way and that on several occasions it was a little short, so that our people would lose this one of their greatest sanctities. I will say briefly only two interesting teaching examples when at the end of the 19th century the Hilandar threatened to be lost because of the great debts that the monastery had, King Aleksandar Obrenovic gave a substantial sum of money from his personal apanasy in order to pay off the monastery's debts and secure the Serbian administration over the monastery, in return of the monks he received a gift from the famous Miroslav Gospel. When half a century later, after the end of World War II, the Hilandar was overcame a new threat, this time to run out of Serbian monks due to the foreign-political disputes of then-Yugoslavia and Greece, as well as all the communist atheizations present in our country at the invitation of St. Nicholas Velimirovic, numerous political emigrants took refuge in Hilandar and thus saved and preserved our monastic community and its Serbian name and roots. We see from these examples that even those who, in the course of time of history, depicted in our memory and science of predominantly negative colors, still had this sense of consciousness, the size and significance of Hilandar for our entire people, for the whole Serbian people, and were ready to give it and help in the way they could best and could. That's why, if we didn't have this kind of story one day in the future repeat ourselves, and our descendants mentioned us in our current generations in our carelessness, we are now passing this bill with the thanks of the Ministry of Culture that this law has initiated and proposed. It will for the first time create the basis for systematic and continuous preservation, protection and improvement of the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar. Although it is relatively short, the law in Articles 3 and 4 fully lists a number of actions to be dealt with in accordance with the law, the objective set, as well as the tasks to be done in order to carry out these activities. They will include the preservation of tradition, accompanied by state and research, interpretation of mobile and immovable heritage, conservation, protection and restoration of existing heritage, raising overall awareness of the importance of Hilandar. What is essential in this law is the provision in Article 6 of paragraphs 2 and 3 which stipulate that the reconstruction, reconstruction and preservation of Hilandar will be carried out with financial support from the Republic of Serbia's budgets and that it will be defined in the future in accordance with adopted plans and reports on the implementation of previous works that will be jointly prepared and managed by the monastery itself, its task in Serbia and the Special Government Commission for Hilandar. Therefore, this is about future permanent incomes that will necessarily be allocated to these purposes, thus avoiding any future volunteerism or relying on someone’s good will to finance these activities. Finally, it is predicted that the name, name and character of the monastery and its heritage can be used for commercial purposes only by the monastery and its borrowing, and by other persons only by special approval. I'd just have to notice here that this right legal code lacks sanctions for its possible breach in practice, and I think there's a certain uncertainty of the legal text itself, which we might be able to correct while we still have time for that. Dear colleagues, Hilandar has existed since 1198, meaning this year it ends in 823 years of its existence. As one of the oldest Serbian smarts, it preserves the history of the Serbian people, always presenting a safe guideline to which to go, even when we haven't seen it sometimes. By safeguarding Orthodox spirituality and the Serbian name, through the Holy monastery of Hilandar, many monks have passed through its vaults, and part of the self that we can see today and admire has been woven into them. The holy monastery of Hilandar was and remained a crucible of extraordinary church dignitaries. During his existence, the monastery has so far given hundreds of igumans, dozens of bishops, 12 archbishops and three patriarchs, as well as 16 saints. It should be borne in mind that the Autonomous Monaco Republic of the Holy Mountain is under direct protection from the Republic of Greece, that there is always a representative of the Republic of Greece as the Governor of the Holy Mountain in the ProTAT, or the Monastic Government. There are a dozen police stations in St. Gora for safety, given the large flow of people who believe in this area, or St. Gore. On the other hand, there is a spiritual leadership over the Holy Mountain by the Patriarch of Cjarigrad, Bartholomew. Also, in the Monastic government, which has five members, the Holy monastery Hilandar always gives its representative. Often our representative was prot, i.e. chaired by the ProTAT, or the Monaco Government. Such specificity should be taken into account, so one member of the law should express a desire for the close co-operation of our Commission of Government with the St. Hilandar monastery as a state body, with the PROTAT Governor of St. Gore and the Imperial Patriarchy, of course, primarily with the administration of the St. Hilandar monastery. We ordinary people who now sit in these benches will inevitably be former, but by adopting this law we will at least install a fraction of ourselves in the future of Hilandara and the memory of our descendants. Therefore, I, personally as an honest Orthodox believer, and I believe all the other MPs, will be very pleased to vote for the adoption of this legislative proposal. Dear People's MPs, by discussing this Law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St Hilandar, we have certainly received new information, not only on the physical existence of this sanctity, but also on its spiritual importance for the Serbian people and the Serbian state, which we have heard in previous presentations of fellow Members of Parliament. All of this can be completed multiple times by a personal visit to the holy land, the autonomous monastic republic of the Holy Mountains of Aton and the Holy monastery of Hilandar. I'll give you one piece of information, and for all those who are interested and want to deepen their awareness of the importance of this sanctity. Professor Dr. Hadji Jovan Zivkovic, otherwise a member of the city council of Nis, in charge of rebuilding and reviving the village of Nis and Nis district, with the blessing of the Nis diocese, organizes a day-long visit to the Holy Mountain and the Holy monastery Hilandar. Otherwise, Professor Hadji Jovan Zivkovic spent some time in Hilandara, working as a doctor at a hospital in Hilandar. If there are any interested MPs, we can organize and visit these, above all, spiritual sanctities and thus promote this law. Not in vain, St. Sava wrote that he did not raise Hilandar for himself, but for his people's sake and invited all representatives of the Serb people, all the men's heads of the Serbian people, to visit for once in their lives the Holy monastery Hilandar. Dear colleagues and respected friends, since we believe it is a good legal proposal from the PUPS Group Tri-P will give its support for the adoption of this law and vote for its adoption in the voting day. Also, the PUPS Group Tri-P will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day, and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9354	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9355	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, are now ahead of us, MPs, a topic that makes us proud, because we are talking about our duration, about foundations and spirituality, about continuity and mission. And I don't want to start with the usual words -- it's on the agenda today, because the St. Hilandar monastery is not a theme for one agenda. Hilandar is the spiritual house of our people, a house that reminds us that our famous Germans were not only fighting for the statehood of Serbia, but were building our faith, thanks to which we could later spent centuries under Ottoman slavery and survive as a people. The time of the founding of the Serbian medieval state had two pillars -- world power and religious authority, a church that gathered people under one hat and until today it is so. Somehow, it seems to me, Minister Gojkovic, or at least it seemed to me at some point that among the greatest things you have done as an MP and president of the Assembly will be measured by that law on 40% of women in parliament. However, today's agenda will change at least that attitude. This is listed as another of your masterpieces and I'm glad it is and I'm glad it's in front of us. It's hard to talk about without making a mistake, she's inadmissible. I have had the help of my dear Verice Mihajlovic from the professional service of the SPS parliamentary group, who is otherwise engaged in this topic, so I will read my presentation today in order not to make, not God, some mistake on this important topic. Today we are talking about Hilandar, as the greatest Serbian sanctity beyond the borders of our homeland, of Hilandar as the spiritual bond of our past and future, of Hilandar as the guardian of an invaluable cultural heritage, of Hilandar as one of the foundations of Orthodoxism held on Mount Aton. What is important for us, for Serbia today, is that for the first time in recent history, we are passing the Law on the Holy monastery of Hilandar and its protection, which, as a state, shows that Hilandar is indeed one of the most powerful spiritual foundations of our people, but also an invaluable treasure of cultural and historical heritage, which many other nations cannot be proud of. This law also officially repays Hilandara for a mission that he held for our people during the 8th century, for the mission he has today, which is the preservation of our spirituality that made us a strong people, who gathered us together whenever it was difficult, and it was difficult today. We are a happy people who had the Holy Sava and Stefan Nemania, whom we might call great visionaries today. No one had any doubt that the departure of Prince Rastko Nemnjević to the Holy Mountain without the knowledge of parents and with the help of a Russian monk and his disowning of the noble title and authority would become a historical feature of the future of the Serbian people and of his state. No one expected his father Stefan Nemanja, founder of the medieval Serbian state that he had strengthened and expanded by bringing the people together and making international recognition, to decide to take the steps of his youngest son. The two, exactly 823 years ago, in 1198, laid the foundations and built the Hilandar on the Holy Mountain, which was still a special Orthodox autonomous monastic republic within the Republic of Greece. Unfortunately, Nemanja retired in Hilandar in 1199 without waiting for the end of the monastery, but the mission continued by St. Sava, who wrote the Karean and Hilandarian keyboard, canonically arranged the monastic life of Hilandar, his metaphors, and his postages. Other rulers of the Nemnjević line have also upgraded and preserved the Hilandar and valuable cultural treasure in it. The Hilandar was fortunately spared the biggest robberies and casualties that hit most of the rest of the world's monasteries, and most of them were robbed by pirates from the Mediterranean Sea. The Hilandar with its magnificent walls and monumental appearance represents an invincible fortress in every sense, resisting both pirates and time. It continues today despite everything and reminds us of the time of its ktitors, our great debtors Stefan Nemanja and St. Sava. Today, Hilandar is the guardian of the rich cultural heritage of the Serbian people and Orthodoxy. It has a collection of well-preserved artifacts, rare books, ancient documents and artistic objects of enormous historical value. For us, the written works of the Holy Sava were very important during his stay on the Holy Mount. The oldest preserved original document in Serbian, ancient Slovenian, is kept in Hilandar, and this is the Karean type written in 1199 in his post office in Kareja. Also, there's a Hilandar type. It was created right after Kareyski, about 1200, which was arranged by St. Sava for the monastic life of Hilandar. The earliest copy of this keypad is kept. It is little known that in Hilandar the typical medical care of sick monks is also established, so the Hilandar hospital can be considered the first Serbian hospital. Later, when St. Sava became an argumentable monastery of Studenica, he founded the first real Serbian hospital in which they could be treated and the poor. The Hilandary Library is the most valuable, preserved old Serbian library. It was founded the same year as the monastery, 1198. During the eight centuries of existence, it became the spiritual center of the Serbian people, the literary and copying centre, which produced the most significant works of medieval Serbian literature. Today, it has a huge number of Serbian manuscripts, with a special value of over 200 manuscripts decorated with miniatures, and it is also the richest collection of Serbian miniature painting. Today, over 500 valuable icons are stored in the Hilandara Treasury, including the Anthological Value of the Mother of the Trinity, one of the greatest sanctities and also the most famous. It was built in the 8th century and kept in the Hilandara Assembly Church. The Mosaic Virgin Odigitria was created in 1200 and has a great artistic and even greater historical value. It's the oldest icon to be kept in the monastery's treasure. The third quarter of the 13th century God of Odigitri represents the masterpiece of European painting of the 13th century. Then, Christos Pantocrator of the third quarter of the 13th century, The Introduction of the Mother of 1320 is of great artistic value and yet is invaluablely valuable icons and other artistic and sacral objects, divine vessels. We could say that Hilandar is our history, our culture, our art and our literacy. The Hilandar took pictures of us and our spirituality through the centuries. Both Nemanja and Sava were influential personalities of their time, and Hilandar was an influential spiritual institution on the entire Mount. It affected the development of canonical law and was an example to other monastic communities. That's why Hilandar, in the hierarchy of holy monasteries, is ranked very high, the fourth is ranked. Since 1988, the Holy Mountain as a special monastic community with its 20 monasteries, including Hilandar, has been on UNESCO's world heritage list, because as Hilandar preserves our rich cultural heritage, historical heritage, so have the other monasteries of the heritage of their peoples -- Greek, Russian, Romanian, Bulgarian and others who built them. And all that is part of the world's cultural heritage. Some historians view Hilandar as a kind of predecessor of the first universities, and thus the first Serbian university. The Hilandar monks were highly educated and written, and St. Sava codified canonical law, so it is considered his legal basis. There is much more to say about the role of St. Sava, Stefan's Negativity for our state and church. And there would always be little time for that, because Saint Sava was not only the founder of our church, but also with Stefan Nemanja legally founded our country. The "Law" of the Holy Sava is considered the first Constitution of the Serbian people. He was both a diplomat and a lawyer, a writer and an enlightener and the first archbishop at the head of our church, whose self-dealing self-acted self in 1219, a great employee and visionary, as well as his father Stefan Nemanja. And therefore, in gratitude to them and with great commitment to their work and the lives they have devoted to Serbia and the Serbian state, we must preserve the sanctity of Hilandar. True, there was a period when the state could not in some periods and did not want to commit itself to preserving the Hilandar that was still a spiritual beacon of the Serbian people. And that's why the law ahead of us is the answer to the question whether or not we're going to give up what Stefan Nemanja and the Holy Sava were and what was their work. We hereby confirm and make a promise to our ancestors that Hilandar is here and that we will keep him, restore him as the center of our spirituality and as the most precious identity relic that has no price. This law is a confirmation to our government and all of us that we will follow the paths of our ancestors, that we will correct the mistakes of many of our predecessors who have rather invested in other people's values than in preserving their own spirituality, tradition, history and rich cultural heritage that our ancestors have left us. I am as proud as someone who comes from the heart of Serbia, from Kosovo and Metohija where St. Sava hit the foundations of the Pećko Patriarchy, and then Germany built Decana, Gracanica, Lijejska, St. Archangela, because we are going back to our national and spiritual roots and to guard our sanctity. Some today would take both our sacred and our history, but it was taken damn and I wouldn't advise them to play with the musts of our ancestors. Our legacy to our ancestors, who were then when the world didn't look like this, could have come to the Holy Mountain and the Holy Land and left clues which we are proud of today, could only be two words – let's keep the sanctuary, and Hilandar is sacred. And finally, since my dear Veronica has given me a hearty hand with all the information I've been talking about today, I'm going to read the poem Verica wrote about St. Savi, to whom we owe the Hilandar today our spiritual seat. "You are our beacon wherever we are distracted. Altar and the icon that guarded us while burning our hearths and souls, in front of your bridge, we seek pardon for many reckless ways and words. We're asking you to give us the same style again. We swear to thee, we glorify thee; thy amanette is that we keep brotherly love; and with the pride of our sacrificial saints We shall fill our hearts, that we may understand the cry of the earth, and keep the winds quiet for the roots of us, that we may restore the fire of the extinguished fires, and thus warm the soul of Serbia that is eternal. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9356	Thank you. The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – "For Our Children", MP Bratislava Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9357	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Brothers and Sisters of People, the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Orthodox Christians, before I go to this topic of the agenda, I would like to thank all those who spoke about this law, and I would especially like to thank Mr Zukorlic and Mr Life Starcevic, who really gave a meaningful speech, which brought the greatest Serbian sanctity to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and MPs in this House who have never been on the Holy Mountain. I am grateful to the president, that is, the head of the parliamentary group who gave me the honor to speak on behalf of our parliamentary group about this law and I am grateful to the author of the Hilandar, Father Methodius, who blessed me to address you. The Hilandar is located on the holy mountain. The holy mountain is a place dedicated to the Holy Mother. In the Hilandar monastery, the icons of the Holy Mother of the Trinity are tabled, and we voted this part of the agenda on Little Our Lady, yesterday, when we celebrate the birth of the Holy Mother. The patriarch of Serbia, Mr. Paul, blessedly rested the patriarch of Serbia, Mr. Paul, said: “Let us be men, not inhumans. ” What does that mean, wake-up people? Let's stand by God, believable. Only men who are with God and who are believers, they are men, and these wicked ones, they are inhumans. I must confess that I have long spoken on this subject in preparation for today's performance with a distinguished colleague, Muamer Zukorlic, who is another religion and another nation, but I will also remind you that Hilandar gave 12 archaeologists, one of whom was the native brother Mehmet Pasha Sokolovic. It was Makarska Sokolovic. He restored the Pećko Patriarchy and, with the help of his brother, who was in Islam of Mehmeda-pasha Sokolovic, restored the Pećko Patriarchy. This is what I want to say to you that if we are only in faith, if we are not wicked, we can live in love, peace, and harmony in these places. From the introduction of a multi-party system, from the 1990s to here, from the collapse of the SFRY to this Assembly, we had wicked people in parliament in all our councils. There used to be a few, there used to be a few dozen. They were always in the minority, but they existed. This is the first meeting in which we have not a single godless man. So, do you notice that the Holy Mother has arranged for us to put this law on the agenda of the Little Lord and to declare this law in that congregation where there is not a single godless man. Be proud we're just that generation. Speakers before me said Hilandar is the only institution in the Serbs that has no interruption. So for hundreds and hundreds of years the monks in Hilandar have prayed for the people of Serbia and for the resurrection and salvation of the Serb people, for all the Orthodox. They pray for peace, love and harmony, because Saint Sava has told us that only a Serb's style saves us. So, in some dioceses today, we have three or four monks, and in Hilandara, we have a brotherhood, currently the Hilandara brotherhood counts almost 50 monks, and it's a really big brotherhood. Wherever we hear the bells of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the monks come from there, so Father Hariton comes from Mostar, Father Milutin comes from Montenegro, Father Theodore comes from Slavonia, Father Nikolaj comes from Valjev, and he's our father from the heart of Serbia, from Chačka, the father of Methodia. That's why, of course, I'm the proudest of them all. You remember the pogrom in 2004. It was March 17, 2004, in our sacred country of KIM. Pogrom was preceded by a fire at the Hilandar monastery on the night between March 3rd and 4th 2004. Whenever there was trouble in Hilandar, there was trouble in Serbia. Whenever Hilandar was renewed and Serbia was renewed. Look, after that fire, there really was help during the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. It was helpful, but it was temporary solutions. The monastery was assisted by other Serbian rulers, both Obrenovici and Karadjordjevici, but all these were temporary solutions. The restoration of the monastery after the fire was intensified, as counterpart Starcevic said, with money from Serbs rather than EU money. Were they businessmen, including Minister Popovic, whether they were some MPs, there are among us, whether they were ordinary believers. Anyway, that was, as we would say, Serbian couples' sweat earned by Serbian sweat. The most intense reconstruction is in the past few years and look at Serbia for the past few years as it is restored, as it is stronger and stronger, as it is prouder. That's why we, brothers and sisters, are the proud generation who will pass this law. Speaking of this fire, I'll remind you that Charles, Prince of Wales, in his letter to the Hilandar monastery, assessed this devastating fire as, quote, a tragedy for the world's cultural heritage and estimated that every man of aesthetic sensitivity and spiritual sensitivity has an obligation to contribute to its restoration. This is what one representative of a powerful country and the forces of another faith and another nation said. That tells you how much our greatest sanctity is great cultural good. Whoever's been to Hilandar 10 times, he'll make it 100 times for life, and when you ask him why you'll go just 100 times, why bother to go 100 times, and he'll tell you, to drink a glass of water from Savi's well, from the well that he dug up St. Sava, to admire the miraculous line of St. Simeon, which even today after so many centuries of birth and through which couples who can't have children still manage to start a family, or to agree and breed, to admire the olive tree that is still born today, and which is planted by Emperor Dušan, to see the vineyards on Savi's field, to look at the sea from the pirg of King Milutin, to feel Serbia, to feel Orthodox. You see how strange the ways of the Lord are. Our greatest sanctity is not under the jurisdiction of the SPC. She's under the jurisdiction of the Patriarchy of the Imperial. That's how St. Sava wanted it, and it's not in our country, it's in the state of the monk. It's true that France has the Notre Dame Act. It is true that Romanians only have a skit on St. Gora, not a monastery, but they have a law on the skitt and separate 900,000 euros on an annual basis. How long did it have to go, how many governments were behind us, how many king's tables, and now we're just passing this law? I repeat once again, be proud that you belong to that generation, we are blessed for it. When you come to the monastery, it's not like any other church. In addition to being an icon of the Holy Mother of the Trinity, you should know that in the Hilandar monastery is the only icon of Milos Obelić where he presents himself as a saint. When you enter a church, there's no way you can put the money down somewhere, whether it's on an icon, whether or not what it's like in churches is practice. No one asks you for money, you just have to watch yourself say, some weird channels to ask yourself where you can leave your contribution to the monastery, and you get two meals, you get a bed, someone changes your sheets and 17,000 overnights in 2019. To host only 17,000 people, you know how much money it is, to carry you from the port of Jovanica to the monastery, which takes about 40 minutes, and back, to sleep over and get honest, it already costs you, and no one asks you for money. The electricity we're wasting, we're not wasting it by having a transistor station, but there's an oil aggregate. Is this the kind of Serbia that is being restored and that is becoming economically powerful to allow its greatest sanctity to spend electricity on oil? Well, this is exactly the law we're passing to build a solar power plant there, or solar energy, so that we can expand the power of the strings so that there can be more than 17,000 people to fulfill the vow of the Holy Sava that every Serb for life visits the greatest Serbian monastery Hilandar. I have to mention the people we didn't mention here, and they're ordinary people, people of the world. The monastery has its own responsibilities and the director of the task is my Cacanin, Milivove Randzic, who participated in the writing of this law, prominent lawyer Dusan Stojkovic also participated in the writing of this law, and a young doctor for the Faculty of Law, Dalibor Đukić, who, believe it or not, was born on July 25th on the Trinity, who was a monastery child in the sense that Hilandar scholarshipd him when he was educated. He's also the creator of this law. After the blessing of the iguman and theologian Milos Stojkovic has no working time every day but has a work assignment and they are dedicated to the monastery. They actually intercede between ordinary people who want to visit the monastery and help the greatest Serb sanctity and monasticity that has been in continuous prayer for hundreds and hundreds of years. Brothers and sisters, you mentioned here that the monastery has a huge estate on Kova, that is close to the Holy Mountain where I baptized my daughter Iscru and I have to tell you that whenever I am in some temptations and dilemmas I always tell myself – it will all be done by the Holy Mother. As I say to you, since great temptations are coming to us, since none of us are wicked, we are all with God, that we may remain in harmony with God, and all the Holy Mothers will make arrangements. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9358	Thank you. I thank the esteemed MP, Bratislava Jugovic, for the inspired presentation. We're moving on. We are done with representatives of the parliamentary groups, the heads of the parliamentary groups. We're going with a list of speakers. The first on the list is the Honorable President of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation, Mr Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9359	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Krkobbiæ, co-workers and fellow MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, respected Minister Popovic with an associate. I want to confess to the ministry that it's very active and very often the Deputy Prime Minister is here defending very high-quality laws. I would especially like to welcome the minister and I am glad that he is here today and to give him credit for the fight and the effort he has made to obtain the vaccine, to establish good relations with the Russian Federation, because we live in a world where we cannot have an extra friend and whatever the EU is our top foreign policy priority, we have a very important co-operation with the Russian Federation. To invite the minister to visit Sandzak municipalities, to visit the International University of Novi Pazar, which may be a partner to your ministry and to visit the municipality of Prijepolje and the municipality of Sjenica where we can start some business incubators, let's see, to run some start-up app program. Today we are talking about a very important law and I want to say why, as a Bosniak, as a Muslim, I will vote in favour of this law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Holy monastery of Hilandar. I will vote because it teaches me my faith, my nation, which teaches me my education from my parents, to respect and cherish and protect the sanctities of another people and other religions. I will vote for this law out of respect for all of you dear friends, out of respect for the entire Serbian people, but primarily out of respect for my neighbours and friends from the Serbs in Prijepolje, because I am very often on the Organisational Committee for the Construction of the mosque. It didn't happen that I, my friends and neighbors from Prepolje, didn't invite them to contribute to the construction of some mosque without them responding. That's what Bosniaks do in Prijela, Sandzak. I think what we're going to do today is vote for proof of what kind of state we're building, a country of equal odds for everyone. I was particularly pleased with the explanation of the Deputy Prime Minister, that in the coming period we will pay particular attention to the spiritual, cultural heritage of all the confesions in our country, as well as what matters of Orthodoxism and the SPC. We'll back it up. We expect, of course, greater support for all churches and religious communities, and of course, I primarily think of the community I belong to, the Islamic community. We have numerous cultural and historical monuments. The leader of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, spoke about the Altunales mosque – Lejlek mosque. I also want to mention Ibrahim's pasture mosque in Prijela and mention the place of the Musalah. Spiritual heritage can't be the subject of privatisation. It's a shame and a shame we had in a period of our development. We know this happened ten years ago. He can't have spiritual heritage, mosques or churches or monasteries running museums. They can be partners, we can co-operate, but what's subject to restitution, what's owned by an Islamic community or a church has to come back to the Islamic community or church. In the end, in the time of the universal moral collapse and depravity of faith in one God is the only way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9360	I thank the People's MP Samir Tandira. Next on the list, honourable MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that over the last decade and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly have been working on what began after the Second World War to finally stop and remove all the consequences of a process that I can freely call Serbia's dismemberment. Not without a foundation, we who entered the sixth decade of life remember very well that as children, we were not very happy to be seen in our religious temples, in our churches. If we were baptized, our parents had to hide it. It seems to me that the only thing that was forbidden to Serbs in that Yugoslavia that was, as a rule, atheistic, but all other peoples, all other religions had the right to point out, to stick to it, except Serbs. We learned very little about Hilandar at school. We learned more from our parents in the family. We knew there was something there. We didn't know the meaning, they didn't know it would explain it to us or they just couldn't. The process has finally stopped both Serbs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should work to preserve, above all, our history, our culture and our spirituality. If we weren't talking about the ideological problems that that old Yugoslavia pulled, I wouldn't go in there. I'm surprised when ideological problems ceased to exist, and when the former regime, what started in that atheistic Yugoslavia, continued even more, I can say far more successfully than the communists did in the second half of the 20th century. Then the Serbian people were tried to impose a collective guilt, to try to forget their history, to forget their culture, to forget the crimes committed to the Serbian people, to give up their victims both in the First and Second World War, to simply accept some collective guilt, and the reasons for which they did not become and simply drown as a losing nation and not stop from these spaces. When I say that, if anyone tries to argue, let me remind you of what happened a little over a year ago here. Remember what happened and what criticism she had both the government and the president of the Republic of Serbia over Serbian country parent Stefan Nemanje. Just a reminder. It wasn't an accident, it wasn't for no reason. It was a process that started this so-called. An intellectual, cultural elite, self-proclaimed, led by the former regime, now brought together by Dragan Gilas around it. Don't mind me saying again about a subject that may not be political, I must say, that what happened to us 10 and more years ago never happens again. Many peoples came from the Serbs. I don't want to go into these historical circumstances, I don't want to go into reasons, I don't want to go into excuses. Let everyone who wants some people consider themselves, and I don't mind. But no one has the right to because he thinks he has become another people kidnapping Serbian history, Serbian culture, Serbian tradition. Have a good trip. But we can't give it up either. The process, it seems to me, has been gaining even more intensity since Serbia began to get back on its feet. By strengthening the Serbian state and restoring Serbs to their roots, our history, our culture, our holiness, our religion, we have attacks from all sides. We have attacks from Croatia, we have attacks from Montenegro, where they are trying to undo the existence of the Serbian Orthodox Church. We have one of the most reckless processes trying to tempt the provisional institutions of the Cypriots to present the temples of the Serbian Orthodox Church as part of the cultural and historical heritage of the Albanian people. I see no difference between those who are destroying, who are trying to take over violently Serbian churches in Montenegro, neighbours from Croatia who are attacking the Serbian state, Albanians from Kosovo who are trying to take over both history and religious objects, I see no difference between them and those who have criticised and attacked why a monument was erected in Svetosavska Square Stefan Nemanja. I don't see the difference. I don't see the difference between Kurti, Gilas, Solak, Milanovic, Djukanovic. I think this was, perhaps not the best, but one of the breaking moments for the Serbian government to give one support to the centre of Serbian spirituality. Because that way, by preserving Hilandar, his legacy, we also preserve the SPC. Through the preservation of the SPC, we don't just guard our own history, but we also preserve the right to survive where we are. Because where the SPC ceased to exist, there was no such thing as a Serb people. And that process, unfortunately, is still going on in some countries around us. And as the queen of all Serbs, we cannot allow that. That's what this law is all about. That is what is important, to preserve our cultural identity, to preserve our Serbia, to encourage our successors to stay here and continue to build that same Serbia. Because it can't be without a reason when your entire system collapses, that you have hope that a large number of citizens will stay here and keep what our ancestors have left us. This law certainly is also a commendation to each other in Serbia, unlike the one that was up to ten years ago, which is that we will build Serbia, improve the quality of life, preserve our cultural and historical heritage, remember all those who were killed because they were Serbs, preserve their memory, and praise all those who helped Serbia to be a country worth living in and in which it is worth staying. I'm just afraid that once again, as soon as this law is passed, we will attack how the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is spent there on some moasters, on some monks, on some events and attacks will again be of those who attacked us and because of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, and I only call on them to protect the citizens of Serbia, in the next elections, ask the citizens of Serbia what they think of them when they talk about Serbia, our cultural, religious and any other identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9362	Thank you, Reverend Arsic. The next on the list is the honourable MP, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9363	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Gojkovic, the distinguished Minister Popovic, with members of his cabinets, colleagues and fellow MPs, is very important and important for Serbia that the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery lies before the National Assembly. Although Serbia has helped rebuild and preserve Hilandar in various ways so far, providing significant financial resources, I believe it was necessary to regulate the way of providing permanent and continuous support and to help preserve the cultural and historical heritage of a single Serbian monastery in the Holy Mountain, over 800 years old. Many times so far, we have witnessed appeals and requests from both the Hilandar brotherhood and the Hilandar monastery in Belgrade, as well as individuals to help the monastery. Especially after a terrible fire raged on the night between March 3rd and 4th 2004, when Hilandar arrived in the ashes. Up to today, about 80% of burned objects have been restored. The biggest and key donor to rebuild Hilandar, but also to help preserve the cultural and historical heritage, has been monasteryd by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has allocated 13m euros from 2004 to 2020 for monasteries, but there are also various state, public and private enterprises, as well as numerous individuals and friends of Hilandar. From the Hilandar monastery's office, they point out that the renovation is specific for many things. First of all because of the location, because the addition of materials to the Holy Mountain is difficult. The facilities that are being renovated must be the same as before the fire, made with the same materials, and it is complicated to provide documentation for masters and experts. All of this is particularly difficult in terms of the pandemic of the coronary virus, and even reconstruction was slowed down at one point and even suspended. Due to complicated procedures during the pandemic, the inflow of money and material resources, which thanks to the fast ministry of culture, has stopped. What's interesting to know is that during the monastery the previously unknown parts of the objects were discovered buried beneath the soil's deposits and kicks after two fires that occurred in the 18th century. Some believe that the unsettled consequences of the fires of that time may also be caused by the most devastating fire in 2004. Since all the buildings of the monastery complex were built in Byzantine style, and floors and balconies mostly from wood, the fire was carried away, unfortunately, by most of the complexes. Fortunately, despite the inexplicable damage caused by the fires, what is most important was never burned down by the church and did not burn down the treasury or the monastery library. What is more important is that the most valuable thing the monastery has left is preserved. The restoration of the monastery was not easy at all, as the first phase of reconstruction after the 2004 fire was carried out by Greek protection services and Greek firms that hired these services, as the monastery is subject to the administrative centre of the Holy Mountain and is under the jurisdiction of the Vaseljen Patriarchy. Only two years later, in 2006, the second phase of reconstruction was launched mainly by our masters, workers, experts and conservators. What is important here is to point out that the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar as one of our most precious monuments provides not only for reconstruction and reconstruction, but also for activities relating to the preservation and cultivation of historical and cultural values of the Hilandar monastery, monitoring of the state, research, presentation of movable and immovable cultural heritage in the composition of the monastery, the construction of new objects, conservation and protection of other cultural heritages such as frescoes, icons, manuscripts, etc. What should also be pointed out is that the bill also envisions raising the level of social responsibility for the protection of world heritage and of the Serbian cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar, as well as raising awareness and knowledge of Serbia's cultural and historical heritage in the Holy Mountain. Serbia should equally care and care and show concern for the restoration and preservation of religious and cultural facilities of members of other religious communities in Serbia. Some of the examples are certainly the reconstruction of the Bajrakli mosque in Belgrade, one of the oldest preserved buildings in Belgrade that has preserved and preserved the valuable cultural heritage of Islam in Belgrade and Serbia. It is also important to mention participation in the restoration of the Subotic synagogue, the second largest in Europe after the synagogue in Budapest. We all need it to serve as a good example of rebuilding the mosque in Medjugorje, at the border of Serbia and BiH, which was restored by the neighbours, Bosniaks and Serbs by common pawnage and charity. I will give another bright and good example, which is an example of the town of Novi Pazar who equally devoted and dedicatedly cares and preserves the Altun-Alem mosque and Peter's church and the monasteries of Gjurdje's pillars and the Sopocans. These are just some examples to be pointed out and followed, because without preserving the cultural and historical and religious heritage, without worrying about the precious monuments that testify to the unity and history of a nation has no identity. When it comes to the law that we are talking about today, the funds for reconstruction, reconstruction and preservation of Hilandar monastery are budgeted for each current year based on adopted work plans and reports on the realization of work on reconstruction, reconstruction and preservation of monasteries, and there is no dilemma. This law is an important team and should certainly be supported because the Hilandar monastery represents the most significant treasure of Serbian medieval culture, because it has the richest collection of original old manuscripts, icons and frescoes, as well as the Hilandary Charter of Stefan the First World. Since 1988, along with the other 19 holy monasteries, it has been on UNESCO's World Heritage List. Hilandar is the fourth in the hierarchy of saintly monasteries and one of the most important spiritual and cultural centres of the Serb people. It was founded on the ruins of the elderly monastery in 1198 by monks Great Mayor Stefan Nemanja and his youngest son Rustko, who created an independent medieval Serbian state and a self-refaling Serbian church. The Hilandar monastery was assisted by numerous Serbian rulers, Stefan, Urosh, King Milutin, and then by Emperor Dušan. It was also done by Russian rulers, furnace patriarchs, Bulgarian and Greek monks to preserve the monastery in very difficult and violent times, throughout history. The monastery was also assisted by the rulers of the Obrenovic and Karadzic dynasty. This bill confirms that we are doing so today, and therefore I believe that the MPs in the voting day will support this, as well as some future proposals for the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9364	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. The next on the list is MP Vojislav Vujic in front of the JS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9365	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Gojkovic, Mr. Popovic, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Krkobiæ, we have a very important and unusual topic on the agenda today. It's unusual because she's provoked a lot of emotions today. The colleagues who spoke before me, each in his own way brought part of himself into this discussion. Since I've been an MP since 2012, I've had the opportunity to listen to a large number of my colleagues' presentations. Of course, there's always something nice and smart to hear. Today, frankly, I must also congratulate my colleague from my MP group, from JS, Mr. Life Starčević, or else the professor, on a lecture, a 20-minute lecture he gave us today. He ran us through Hilandar, and it's not easy to do in 20 minutes, to go through 11 centuries of long history. Of course, today and all of us who participate in the vote of this law have, as someone said today, the honor and privilege that we can vote for one of these laws. I'm quoting a lot, and I haven't even started. I must also mention my colleague, Snezana Paunovic, who said that you, too, in your not-so-long, ministerial career, have really brought a number of positive and good laws at the place of the culture minister who will certainly enter history. What's most important today is that for the first time we have a system solution, I can't say, far from that, about a problem, about a situation that lasts centuries back, and for the concrete aid we've been sending to Hilandar monastery since 2004. For us, it can say, these are historical facts, that we were a communist state, but faith in God and in the sanctity of our people has never disappeared and will never go away. Middle-aged monasteries and churches, we always call them sacred from grace, and that is now becoming more popular and popular in the public, which bear witness to the rise and fall of the Serbian empire, and then Serbian states are part of a culture that makes Serbia proud. Today is the theme of Hilandar, but when we talk about Hilandar today, we need to get through the Hilandar monastery all the saints. I daren't even count how many saints we have, thank God, we've got plenty of them, and that's the fruit of our history, which in itself is long. Politics are changing, ideologies are changing, sometimes the birth rate is leaving, but faith, faith has never changed with us Serbs. She also kept us, we were taught and brought up in the spirit of Orthodoxism that we did not want any harm. And when we were through history forced to wage war, we tried to always be defensive wars. Unfortunately, we have not suffered only the damage to the wars, in 2004, our sanctity, specifically the Hilandar suffered great damage from the fire. What came after that fire, I don't just think of the help of the state and the people that has certainly been evident since that year, and it has been bigger and bigger, the most important thing that we started to rebuild then, in 2004, is certainly our faith, and it has made us, as every time through history, that after the great tragedies somehow we all get together again. Serbia's unity has been restored. That is why the sacred things are important to us, for they warn us. Every time we step away from each other they remind us that we have to stick together. We had the opportunity to see in Montenegro very soon, a people who had been missing and giving in since 2006, but when they got to a line that they couldn't get past, when they were walking in the faith, when they were walking into the sanctuary, we had the opportunity to see what lithium in Montenegro managed to do, what the people had managed to do. For one power, for which all of us who deal with politics, for which we could say, so that will last, we do not know how long it will last – what happened? They crossed the line. Now, when they cross that line, when they touch the sanctity, what history teaches us is that we become unique and then the answer is as it is. In Montenegro, power has been changed, and the people have managed to preserve what makes the lithiums run. I was present in Podgorica on September 4th, and I welcomed our patriarch, Mr., Porphyri and what I saw in Podgorica at that time, over 15,000 people, which you will agree is enough for Podgorica and Montenegro, I have seen unity as it is rarely seen. These are our messages, these are the signs by the road, and that's why we always return to our sanctity. It is not the first time, but the most severe loss that the Serbian people and Serb saints experienced, it was in 2004, when the Cypriot terrorists expelled 220,000 Serbs from Kosovo and destroyed us, turned 120 sanctities on. That's what's left in history, the rest is written in our hearts, and that's the kind of thing we don't forget. That's why this law is good. We bring it in at the right time to show everyone that such things are not forgotten and that we do not leave sacred things behind. Today we have the provocations that are happening. The media is full of them and you see what they're trying to do again. As Dragan Markovic Palma, president of JS told reporters yesterday that what Kosovo Albanians are doing will not do anyone any good. This isn't going to do them any good, not to us, maybe. This has to stop. I still vote for this law today, asking them to stop doing what they're doing, to get rid of these provocations, to mind their own business. Since my time is running out, I want to take this opportunity to thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic and Mr. Popovic, for everything you've done for Vrnjakka Banja. I believe that we will continue in the spirit of this good tradition and in the future to cooperate, and I will tell everyone and all my colleagues to ask that we declare this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9366	Thank you very much. The word is held by the Vice-President of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9367	Vice President Zukorlic, thank you. Dear Vice-President Gojkovic, Honorable Minister Popovic, I must first of all say that today we only heard from authorised representatives and colleague Snezana Paunovic, and colleague Starcevic, and distinguished colleagues from the SDS, this story would be enough today. I think the ministers who are with us here today represent the right people, as says counterpart Starcevic, who protects this identity part of the story. I also think of Minister Popovic in particular, but also of the prominent Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, whom we can say she was a good president of the National Assembly. I wasn't a national MP at the time, and I can judge that he is now an extraordinary culture minister. What is on the agenda today is our Hilandar, although it is part of the Serbian soul and the source of our spirituality and culture, Hilandar never except for the empires of Emperor Dusan was a formal part of our motherland church, but all the secular monasteries, including our Hilandar, have a status that is equal to the position of local self-government, are the legal persons of public law of Greece, and from the point of view of international conventions on world cultural heritage belong to a Greek cultural heritage, which is before the Union responsible for the preservation of the Holy Mountain and world heritage. No Greek will dispute today that Hilandar is a Serb saint and that the heritage is a Serbian tradition, but it will also say that Hilandar is like a spiritual institution, primarily a sacred monastery and that it belongs under the omophor of the imperial patriarch. Otherwise, all the worldly monasteries, including our Hilandar, are on their own in the internal administration, so monks choose the iguman themselves. Regardless of its special status, Hilandar has the most difficult connections with the Serbian church and makes an important part of the spiritual but historical and cultural identity of our people and this relationship is two-way. Patriarch enjoys high authority among the Hilandarian monks, and he is in charge of maintaining a spiritual bond with the Serb saintly. Someone may ask why the Hilandar monastery and its restoration are subject to a special law, but we in the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" think it is a strategic and wise decision of the Government, because in this way, in its restoration, protection and preservation of the monastery's sanctities, at least for a certain amount of budget funds, which, by the way, has not been small. This law is a kind of text pirg of this time, or the tower of St. Sava, which was the main defence facility on the eastern walls of Hilandar. The first four floors of this pirg were erected at the time of St. Sava, while the next three were built in the time of St. King Milutin. As the monks themselves from these guards have sometimes defended the monastery from Turkish conquerors, so in the future this law that we adopt will give security and protection to our sacred sanctity. The Hilandar monastery of all previous years and without a special law because of its importance for the Serbian people and the state, received significant assistance from the Republic of Serbia's budget, especially for the restoration of the monastery's strings and other facilities after a terrible fire on the night between March 3rd and 4th 2004. To remind you, the Hilandar monastery in the ruins of an older monastery from 1198, was erected by the great mayor Stefan Nemanja and his youngest son Rustko, the same latter, the modern Simeon Mirocivi, and the Holy Sava, who created an independent medieval state and chose the autocephalicity of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In Serbia's long history, its monks played a significant role, as the close ties of Hilandar monastery with the country of origin remained permanent. The Hilandar monastery, which has been an uninterrupted existence since its establishment as a self-government monastic institution and has invaluable value for the Serbian historical heritage and represents a unique centre of Serbian spirituality, culture, education and traditions. The Hilandar preserves the richest collection of original ancient manuscripts, icons, frescoes, so it is now the most significant treasure of Serbian medieval culture. The Hilandar monastery has been located in the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1988, along with 19 other holy monasteries and the entire heritage of St. Gora Atonska. The aim of this law is to provide continued and law-based support and assistance to the Republic of Serbia to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery and, in this context, to restore and reconstruct the Hilandar monastery's permanent, certain and secure financial support for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Immediately after the outbreak of the fire, the government of the Republic of Serbia in the 2004 budget envisioned 75,000 dinars for reconstruction. The amount has increased year by year so that for the purpose of rebuilding and protecting the Hilandar Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 2021, the amount of 360.000 dinars has been determined. Otherwise, for the purposes of rebuilding and protecting the Hilandar monastery in the Republic of Serbia's budget, only at the cultural ministry's division for this year, the project activities provided an amount of 80,000,000. How determined the state is to institutionally care for the preservation of Hilandar tells the fact that the Government is educateing the Hilandar monastery Commission, as well as the government's special working body. Also, this law ensures that the name, name and character of the cultural and historical heritage and good in the composition of the Hilandar monastery for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can only be used by the Hilandar monastery, i.e. in charge of the Holy monastery of Hilandar in Serbia, and other persons exclusively after the approval of the Hilandar monastery. The law stipulates that, apart from the Serbian state's budget, funds for the implementation of projects to preserve the cultural, historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery can also be provided in the AP budget and local self-government units. We must boast here, for example for the municipalities of Chatin in which the PUPS has been part of the government for a long time to support the restoration of Hilandar, but also organises other numerous activities and collaborations with the brotherhood of the monastery. Recently, the leadership of Chaetine with the igumano of Hilandar monastery agreed to build a Hilandar Educational and Scientific Centre in Zlatibor with the aim of organising scientific and educational camps that would then grow into an educational institution under a system of secondary education of the Republic of Serbia. For this centre, which will also have an education facility with a boarding school for the accommodation of pupils and sports and recreation grounds, already defined a plot of about 70 hectares. This is certainly a way for young people to live healthier, return to traditional values, stay in nature, and the international system of organisation of student residence will allow children to become more self-sufficient. What change is actually proposed on the plan of continuing support and helping our state of Hilandar? This law gives the Republic of Serbia the full legal basis to support and help preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery, to provide institutional grounds for detailed editing and preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery. The passing of the law was indeed necessary and the only possible solution for comprehensive regulation, providing an institutional basis for detailing and preserving the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery. What is very important in drawing up the draft of this law was the invaluable foundation that works in Serbia, the authority of St. Hilandar, whose founder of the Hilandar monastery, with the aim of helping in the public interest and fostering the preservation and representation of the entire legacy of the Hilandar monastery, as well as its development, care, ties with the homeland and contemporary contribution to Serbian culture. Hilandar is the fourth in the hierarchy of the Council's monastery and one of the most important spiritual and cultural centres of the Serbian people. In Serbia's long history, its monks played a significant role, as the close ties of their monastery with their country of origin remained permanent. A large part of the hilandarians were in the development of Serbian literature, art and culture, and the most capable among them came to take the lead in the country's Serbian Orthodox Church. The Holy Imperial Serbian Lavra Hilandar is still today, when it numbers a 50-Monac monastery, an important place of Serbian and Christian pilgrimage and represents the richest treasure and archive of the medieval heritage of the Serbian people. Why in the end or should I do it at the beginning, not point out something else? This law, which I expect to adopt unanimously, is the result of last year's visit by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who promised the Hilandara Monastic Brotherhood all the help and support of Serbia. With this President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic kept his word, and we MPs will fulfill our duty to our ancestors who defended the Serbian Council of Lavre on Athos with the pyramid of the Holy Sava and their bodies when otherwise could not. Dear fellow MPs, respected and respected representatives of the government, will support the proposal in the voting day of the PUPS parliamentary group -- Tri P. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9368	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9369	The Honorable Chairman, Academy Member Zukorlic, fellow MPs, respected Minister Gojkovic, Minister Popovic, I think we all said a lot today, and a lot has happened in our discussions, but it is not a waste, and I think today's discussion in this House is somehow exuding with one calm. It is very important for our Serbia that we and what I am discussing now, and is chaired by academic Zukorlic, and this is the atmosphere. It means that the work of our country and our relations and everything that it needs for Serbia to be built and that all people living in Serbia would welcome better and even better, I think it is today and how important it is for all of us and that is the picture we need to send today from this Parliament. When I'm asked, I'm a few months a folk MP, but when they ask me, since some people may laugh at this House, what did you vote for? I'm sorry I wasn't when the Cyrillic was voted, because I was a pig, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the staff of the Kladovo medical center for one care and all the nurses, I'm going to say that we voted for the Cyrillic Act and we voted on Hilandar and that's enough. Everything else we've done, we've also worked on Serbia's well-being, but this will remain for generations and I think we should be proud of you, gentlemen of the ministers, especially you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I think this is the crown of your work and that it should remain. It's going to be recorded somewhere. After all, someone will read it, and perhaps some doctoral dissertation will say then that some parliament is and that some ministers have suggested it in some 800 and over years since the beginning and creation of the Hilandar monastery. It is a great honor for each of us to talk today about Hilandar, one of the most important spiritual and cultural seats of the Serbian people. Since 1198, when founded by the great mayor Stefan Nemanja, in the monarchy of Simeon, and his youngest son Rustko, in the monarchy of Sava, until today Hilandar is the guardian of our Orthodox tradition and invaluable cultural heritage. There are eight centuries of our history in Hilandar. The Hilandar has been incessantly inhabited from establishment to this day, so I'll add here, I think that according to St. Sava's typical, and the monks in Hilandar are over 400 years old, when they gather hours as they pray, they're much older than many big countries that are sometimes friends, and sometimes they're enemies to Serbia. His monastic community is credited with expanding Serbian literacy and culture. It is also a great credit to the hilandarians for the development of Serbian literature and sacral art. Hilandar is our continuous historical reminder of the founders of the Serbian state and the church have been here for over 800 years. When we talk about Hilandar as our invaluable national treasure, then we start from valuable, old and rare books, from the Karai and Hilandar typical of St. Sava, from the rich library, from the richest treasure of icons, but also from the exceptional architectural and building beauty of this monastery complex. Hilandar is the ancient greatest testimony of Serbian legitimacy among the historical peoples. According to the number of miraculous icons stored in Hilandar, Hilandar is the first place in your Christian world, he wrote blissfully at the beginning of Amphilochya Radovic's Metropolitan. Many from the scientific world that came into contact with Hilandar and studied it believe Hilandar is one of the first universities, and it is certainly the first Serbian university. St. Atenska, with its 20 monasteries, has the status of the Autonomous Monastic Republic and is thus unique in the Orthodox world. This great monastic community is under the direct protecton of the Vaseljen Patriarchy. Because of the history of Orthodoxism held by worldly monasteries, because they are all different treasures of cultural heritage over 1,000 years old, St. Peter's Day has been on the World Heritage List since 1988 and under the protection of UNESCO, and the Holy monastery Hilandar dedicated to the Prevelation of the Holy Mother belongs to the first five monasterys in honor and significance of the 20 main monasteries of St. Gora. The first is the Great Lavra, the second Vatoped, the third is Iviron, the fourth is our Hilandar and fifth Dionysianate, and so up to 20. In the holy mountain and in Hilandar itself, almost all the ruling families of our people – Nemanjeci, Mrnjavčević, Lazarevići, Brankovici, Crnojevici, Obrenovići and Karadjordjevici. Countless members of these families stood up as Hilandarian monks. Hilandar is a special place in the spiritual life of the Orthodox world, not just Serbs. This has been witnessed by the numerous patronage charters of Russian emperors. Emperor Ivan the Terrible has acquired the calling of the second clitor of Hilandar. The Hilandar was assisted by Moldovan and Vlach princes. The Dubrovnik Republic has helped and allocated funds for the Hilandar for centuries, and it is interesting and quite true that, they say, some Albanian ruling family of Kastriot respected Hilandar, and as Hilandar monks, the father and brothers of Skenderbeg were buried. The tomb of Skenderbeg's brother Repos is located in the main church of the Hilandar monastery, and I think that it should connect with this present time and that some settle there, because their time is not and their general world should not go that way today that they want to do so. The liberators of Kosovo. The Hilandar was once less cared for by the Serbian state, sometimes more. By adopting this law, we are classified as a generation that has helped more. State aid is necessary, especially from a fire that broke out in March 2004, when much of the monastery complex died. Over the past few years, the state has allocated significant funds to rebuild Hilandar, but now the adoption of this law will provide permanent support and assistance to the St Hilandar monastery. In order to preserve this priceless cultural and historical heritage, the monastery needs to be completely restored, reconstructed and preserved, so state aid is valuable and necessary. In addition to our commitment to the founders of Hilandar, to preserve the monastery and all its values, we as a state also show responsibility to our descendants, who need this spiritual and cultural and historic building to surrender as the most sacred value. Today, the state of Serbia shows exactly that responsibility, but also the commitment to safeguard Hilandar, as a place of our cultural and national identity. I therefore welcome the Government's proposal to pass a special law on the protection of the Holy monastery of Hilandar, which will allow for regular and safer funding from the Republic's budget. By building Hilandar, we were building a state, restoring Hilandar, we were restoring the state, some would say celestial, they said modestly, we were building this earth. By building on this earth and restoring it, our prominent neimars, the liberators, the founders of our statehood, the statesmen under whose leadership was freed and rose again our Serbia, they built their righteous souls into heaven. For both of us, both this earth's Serbia and celestial Serbia, the Holy monastery of Hilandar, as a candidate of all of us before God for our people bright, as well as for every benevolent and godly man from these parts, to the joy of our existence and the human future of our generations. St. Sava ordered it in the Hilandar type – Be the creators of words, not just readers. By adopting the Law on the Holy monastery of Hilandar, we are all creators and works together for the benefit of our generations. I was going to finish this, but one discussion, the first of the gentleman of the congratulatory Mufti Zukorlic, surprised me most positively. I am very happy for her, and I think that Mufti Zukorlic, academician Zukorlic, our fellow MP, our fellow citizen in Serbia, and I hope from today and a great friend of all of us, he settled in the order of Isa Mahmutovic, who did not want to crash this discussion today, Isa Mahmutovic did not want to tear down the chapel on Lovcen Negosev. You've come to this discussion today, academic, that's where you settled. Especially by mentioning the patriarch of Serbian Porphyri, I will take his one from his speech, which you have warned us that we all hear about politics and that we all think about his speech and apply it. The Patriarch of Porphyrius said one sentence from his speech, which was truly magnificent, and you recognized it well – it cannot be worldly without being yourself. We are our own today, and we will be tomorrow, when we declare Hilandar and thus worldly. That you're all safe and sound to me, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9370	Thank you, Comrade Aregina. Thank you for your kind words to me. I understand you and why you were surprised, because in order not to be surprised, and even positively, we need to get to know each other. So whoever knows me, knows that I am always well-intentioned and friendly towards everyone, and of course, first to those I live with and in which country I live, starts from you all the MPs here and certainly all of my close or distant neighbors. These are my beliefs, because I am here, among other things, to find a common denominator in values, because I believe that only the ones gathered around the right values can have a different and better future. Thank you. Now the champion of rural politics, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9371	I thank you, academic Zukorlic. Dear Minister Popovic, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, Honored counterparts and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected here in the Assembly from the list of Alexander Vukic - "For Our Children", and I represent the USS. First of all, I would like to thank our Deputy Prime Minister, the competent Minister of Culture, for all the things she's done for this time since the Minister of Culture, and that means a lot to us, for our generations, it means a lot to us. Cyrillic, now this bill of Hilandar. Thank you again. Thank President Vukic, who started all this, because we're all going here together to work on reconciliation, to preserve everything that's worth it, and first of all, it's our value, it's our faith. Mr. Zukorlic, academic, you, as an authorised representative in front of our parliamentary group, have said a lot of things that concern our monastery Hilandar and our Orthodox faith. You want us to work in a sign of justice and reconciliation and that our people here in Serbia live together, to live together, to move forward and that no one hates anyone, that everyone respects everyone, and that's what my colleague Samir was talking about earlier from our Parliament club. We're all here under God, we're all here to work in the interest of everyone, whether it's a Serb, whether it's a Muslim, any religion. We're all human. That's what our patriarch Paul was talking about. One of the important things for today is for this current debate, about the Hilandar monastery, that is something for all of us who are Serbs and all those who respect faith, who respect God, very important. Today, we will have the opportunity to speak, vote, and finally have security for everything that is necessary to do in the monastery. All of us who are here, whether we live in Srlig, whether we live in the White Palanca, whether we live in Subotica, in Belgrade, whether we are in agriculture, whether we are in other work tasks, does not matter, whether we all have to respect and believe, we must respect every man here in Serbia. Any one of us who's been to Hilandar, anyone who hasn't been to Hilandar, would be good to leave. It would be good to arrange it, to leave. There are probably MPs who haven't been to Hilandar. It would be a good idea to organize a meeting together, to go to Hilandar together. It'd be good. It's nice to hear about our sanctity. It's nice to say how much it's worth, how nice it is there, but it's so much nicer when you go there to feel the hilandarian incense. It's the most beautiful and the best thing. For that reason, it would be good to organize, which of the MPs did not. It would be good, let's say, our low eparchy, headed by Episcopal Arseni, organizes going to Hilandar. I think it's good for both schools and students to go to Hilandar, to be our initiative, to take trips, to have our children go there, to keep it safe and to move forward. I will once again, my dear colleagues, support this proposal as president of the USS, because this is necessary and because this is important for all of us who live here. I, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, will support you for the other draft laws. I hope that we will have the opportunity, what I said last time, to "Attention", a textbook in the Srlig that is being issued, that this is your ministry, or you headed with it, to provide the funds. And, Reverend Mr Popovic, I invite you to be a guest in the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, it is the Srlig municipality, to work together to promote our people and to work there to live better everywhere, in every part of our country of Serbia. Thanks again. I'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9372	Thank you, fellow Miletic. It is no accident that you represent the citizens of Svrlig and the citizens of Nisavsky Management District for many years. Just keep going. Now the word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9373	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Zukorlic, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, the esteemed Minister Popovic and his associates, our people say - as we refer to culture, history, tradition, language and letter, everything that makes our national tissue, our works testify, our identity as a people. Also famous Stefan Nemanja wrote: “When a man builds a house, he builds it not for himself, but for his children and grandchildren. That's how family and household come into existence. When the ruler builds a church, he builds it not for himself, neither for his sons, nor for his grandchildren, but for a people who will visit it through the ages. That's how you make a country. The house is what stays after the man. The Church is what remains after the ruler. The house remains for the children, the church to the people. The church is a great ship that sails towards deep and distant times and people unknown to us. Whatever century he's in, he'll bring us here and show us to our yet unborn descendants. “ This is what Stefan Nemanja, our great mayor of Raski, wrote about the churches in his “Knowledge” of churches, the progeny of the Nemmanic dynasty. As you do today, dear fellow Members of the people. When you look at how we treat our monasteries, how we care for the cultural and historical heritage of our Hilandar monastery, as well as other church and religious objects, not only in Serbia but also beyond the borders of our country, in which we refer to the Sopocans, Decans, Zica, Djurdje's Stapes, Bajrakli mosque. The history of the Hilandar monastery is certainly rich. This was witnessed in their presentations and by my fellow MPs with a series of historical facts and data. The Hilandar monastery grew without a doubt and rose as his people did and went through numerous hardships and challenges. There is no doubt that the Hilandar monastery since its founding in 1198 has been a single centre of Serbian spirituality, our culture, education, traditions and indeed represents an invaluable value for Serbian cultural and historical heritage. As my colleague, Jasmina Karanac, pointed out, Hilandar is indeed the fourth in a hierarchy of saintly monasteries and one of, I would say, the most important symbols of Orthodoxism and the most important spiritual and cultural centers of our people. The Hilandar is registered together with the entire heritage of St. Gora Atonska in the list of UNESCO's World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The bill before us today in the House of the National Assembly will certainly create a good legal basis before us by adopting it and will arrange a way of providing support and financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia to preserve one of these, above all, cultural and historical heritage, as the Hilandar monastery represents without a doubt. We must help survive, and I would say the remnant of this temple of Serbian spirituality and Orthodoxism through the provision of uncontinuous and permanent financial assistance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We're witnessing that during the previous regime, really hand and hat were given to various virtual projects, all kinds of nonsense, I'd say. You can take the example of Belgrade. I come from the township of Rakovica and I can testify to what all the money from the Republic's budget was going to, for various virtual projects, from "The Watch Tower of the City" on Vozdovac, via underground containers, through the replica of the old Terrace in New Belgrade. So it was hand and hat, it wasn't meant for the people, it wasn't meant to preserve culture, history, cultural heritage. It wasn't about our museums, our schools, our kindergartens, what kind of hospitals we were in. At the time, it wasn't about our roads, our bridges, our theaters and other cultural institutions. Culture and history, I'd say, were in their last place. All they cared about was that some of their projects went through, that they came here, that they were built in, and that they were happy. That's why we're different from the previous regime, because today when you look at everything that's being built and restored, I'd say, it's a lot of your heart. This is the responsibility of a man in this country, for the overall economic progress that one responsible policy with the entire government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ana Brnabic, indeed worries about where every dinar goes and how the funds are spent. For a very short time today in Serbia you have built three covid hospitals in Batajnica, Krusevec, Novi Sad. And somehow, this relationship to history, according to tradition, to culture, something that we have so far and so much missed. Just when it's most difficult, to remind all citizens of Serbia, all of the people's MPs, we all know it very well, in the second year of the coronary virus, the world pandemic that hit the whole world, only when it's the hardest, at such moments, we have to show this council, something that Serbs and all citizens of Serbia are and how they were known, and it's something that kept us and kept us together in the crowd to survive and stay as a people. When people lose their history, their tradition, their culture is certain to lose their future. That is why I call on fellow Members of Parliament, without the wall to which the political party belongs, to which the confesionation belongs to support this proposal in the day of the vote, which regulates how to support and help preserve the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar. I will not talk about the objectives and purpose of the adoption of this law and the numerous public debates organised by the Ministry of Culture. That's what Minister Gojkovic was talking about. At the very end, I want to introduce you to the words of our blessed patriarch Paul, who spoke – years and times pass, and it is for us to try, not to be important and famous, but to be up to the time in which we are and the place in which we are, and that is ultimately up to us. Our task is to repay the debt to the ancestors, according to Stefan Nemanja, according to the Council of Sava, to all those who created the medieval Serbian state and who fought for the autocephality of the SPC. By adopting this law, we will actually repay our debt to our ancestors, and it will be our provision for future generations that are standing, not only in our country, but throughout our country's borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9374	I appreciate the exposure. Next on the list is the representative of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, Honorary MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9375	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, today is one of those laws that contributes in a comprehensive and comprehensive way to the preservation of everything that has left behind and leaves a historical mark in the time of the identity of the Serbian people. The law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Holy monastery Hilandar is exactly such a law, which we are now contributing to, not only to the preservation of the historical, religious and cultural traditions of the monastery itself, but also to raising awareness, knowledge of the Serbian cultural and historical heritage of the Holy Mountain, which today, frankly speaking, is much greater than 20 years ago. With the kind of approach we have today in the debate and adopting such a law, we only show that the level of social responsibility for the protection of the world's and Serbian cultural and historical heritage has reached such a level that such a historical heritage deserves. I did not accidentally say the world and Serbian heritage, because although the Hilandar monastery represents an invaluable value for the Serbian cultural and historical heritage, a self-government monastic institution that, in its uninterrupted existence, represents a unique centre of Serbian spirituality, culture, education and traditions, it is registered together with the entire heritage of St. Atonska in the list of UNESCO's World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The law is one of a series of urban moves made by the state of Serbia and is concerned about its cultural and historical identity. Let us remember first the monument to the great Stefan Nemanja in the Sava Square, then the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Protection and Conservation of Cyrillic Letters and today the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and History Heritage of the Holy monastery Hilandar. This graduation should tell each of us who it is and who it comes from and where it comes from and where it should go. The JS parliamentary group believes that one such law was more than needed, as it provides continued assistance with constant, certain and secure financial support to preserve, both cultural and historical heritage, and support for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Hilandar monastery itself. I would remind all of us of the fire that took place on 4 March 2004, which wiped out 57% of the monastery space, as well as the fact that, despite the great help of both Serbia and the friendly Greece and Russia, the complex has not been completely restored. Now financial resources are not a problem, which is good, but authentic restoration takes time. But it wasn't always like that. There were times when financial resources were needed, so in one period, the sacred Hilandar monastery was in Bulgarian hands, which were undomestically treated by the property of the monastery itself, which owns as much as 25% of the world's surface. Until 1896, when King Aleksandar Obrenovic paid his debts, the monastery itself was Serbian again. Also, if we go back a little bit to history from the very establishment of the monastery that Stefan Nemanja and his son Rusk have restored from the foundation, it is Saint Simeon and Saint Sava, we see that the monastery was also assisted by King Milutin, as one of the greatest clitors, Stefan Uros I, Emperor Dusan Silni, Prince Milos Obrenović, and King Petar I Karadjordjevic. Of course, when we have one such cultural good where there is an icon of the Holy Mother of the Trinity, as the most sacred icon in Serbian Orthodoxism in general, as well as other icons and many other objects that have exceptional value for the spirituality of the Serbian people, but also for all Orthodox peoples, the issue of commercialisation where the financial gain is realised is very important and this law is well defined. So, for one thing, the commercial use of cultural and historical heritage and good, as a product of history, culture, art and tradition of the Hilandar monastery, must not be affected by its cultural and historical value. And secondly, any kind of commercialisation can only be used by the Hilandar monastery, or the debt of the sacred monastery Hilandar, and other persons exclusively by the approval of the Hilandar monastery itself. And finally, as this law provides institutional grounds for the detailed regulation of the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery, and how it should awaken in each of us the awareness of our roots and ancestors that we must be worthy, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9376	Thank you, dear People's Messenger. The next on the list is the popular MP Jelena Mihailovic from the SPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9377	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Gojkovic, Minister Popovic, with his associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as has already been said, today's debate is in general dedicated to one item of the agenda – the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St Hilandar's monastery. This is a very important topic for Serbian cultural heritage, Serbian history, the present and the future. Since we discussed and adopted the Law on the Conservation of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters last week, the government's commitment to the adoption of legislation that will safeguard and preserve the identity of Serb gender and language is an encouragement to all generations, especially at times when political movements are such that there is a risk of drowning our identity in others. I do not feel it necessary for me to repeat the historical invoice on Hilandar and Mount Athonska, where Hilandar is located, which my fellow MPs in their presentations presented before me, but several facts make the Hilandar as well as the Holy Mountains that no other place on earth can compare, as Saint Sava himself said. The sacred Hilandar monastery has existed since 1198 in continuity. So over 800 years. When Hilandar was founded, some of today's great forces were five or six centuries away from their sovereignty with which they are now weighing on the world stage and their sovereignty is about the fates of many nations. Hilandar has been tucked into the rich forests of the Atos peninsula for centuries, resisting attacks by pirates and barbarians, guarding in his treasured treasure of Serbian history, with a stream that passes through the monastery, which has never dried up the vine that produces from stone and says miracles, with St. Sava and Stefan Nemanje, as founders of Serbs and Serb families, invaluable treasures of culture, indeed represents a unique centre of Serbian spirituality, culture, education and traditions and a symbol of a powerful medieval Serbian state. We studied at the school about the Germans and their indescribably great role in the history of the Serbian state, sang and sang "Let's Shout With Love" every Savindan. Major Mayor Stefan Nemanja received his monument in the Sava Square in Belgrade, but we had no legislation so far to ensure continued and secure support and assistance from the Republic of Serbia in preserving the cultural historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery, its reconstruction, reconstruction and preservation. We can ask why we have not done so so far, because the adoption of such legislation is a logical step towards preserving the monastery, which, with its entire heritage and 19 other world-class monasteries, is on the UNESCO World Heritage List as part of the monuments of the Middle Ages, united under the protected continent of Mount Atos. The law provides for the allocation of financial resources to preserve Hilandar from the Serbian budget or an autonomous province, as has been behind us for years. In the budget rebalancing that we confirmed in April this year, the Hilandar funds with 80 million, as foreseen by the budget, were increased to 360 million dinars, so that the monastery given to Serbs on an eternal gift would finally be restored after the devastating fire that hit him and destroyed most of his surface in 2004. I study every law as well as any fellow MPs, but I pay particular attention to the laws in the field of culture and every time very carefully, in addition to the draft law, I read both the reasoning and the analysis of the effects of the law. I am particularly pleased to note in the contributions that the status quo is an option, i.e. not touching or not making changes and additions or a new law, discussed but rejected, because you will agree with me, the area of culture and cultural heritage no longer has the luxury of being in the status quo phase. If we didn't agree, this number of new laws, changes and additions, we wouldn't even be in this high house this many times in front of the MPs. By passing this law, the greatest burden on its implementation will fall, above all, to the Ministry of Culture and Information, but given the current activity of the Ministry and Mrs Gojkovic, and that so far you are used to continuing work and steps forward, I must point out that we MPs, especially my fellow artists and I as a member of the cultural scene, are certain that all other citizens of Serbia, too, are expecting new shifts in the sector of culture, both new regulatory and sublegal acts that would improve the position of culture and art in society, as well as the shifts in the form of a constant trend that would mean increasing the budget for the culture and art sector. That 1% for culture, which we have also confirmed in this rebalancing process, is new to normal, and it is desirable to be overcome in the year or years that are coming, because the economic results that we have achieved as a state give the opportunity to further increase in giving in culture. No price is expensive for the descendants of the lineage of Nemnjević, the descendants of Petrovic, Obilić and many other Serbian greats and heroes to enlighten, educate and place on the pedestal where we belong as a people with such a rich history. Article 4 The draft of this law in paragraphs 6 and 7 as the aim of carrying out the tasks of the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, envisions raising the level of social responsibility for the protection of the world and Serbian cultural heritage, the historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery and raising awareness and knowledge of the Serbian cultural and historical heritage in St. Atonia. As all religions of the world do not know the borders of the states, they remain wherever there are believers, who through their faith maintain a bond with the queen, so even Orthodoxy is not subject to the borders of the countries where the most Orthodox live. Raising awareness and knowledge of Serbia's cultural and historical heritage on the Holy Mountain of Aton is also necessary to expand beyond the borders of our country, but also beyond the borders of Orthodoxy, precisely because of the priceless historical and cultural value that the whole of the Holy Mountains, as well as the Hilandar, have when the question is world cultural heritage. In order to achieve these objectives, in addition to conservation and restoration works on objects and icons, manuscripts, frescoes, round tables and conferences in Serbia and abroad, the objective of promoting and presenting the cultural heritage of Hilandara, as stated in the annex to point 4, perhaps a good idea could be to form a kind of travelling exhibition at the time of the expansion of digitalisation and virtual technologies within which many citizens of our country, who have not so far had the opportunity, and what if not the inhabitants of Europe and the world, could also first-hand see the history of one of the most significant foundations of Serbia and Serbia's culture. My personal opinion is that, in addition to all the above-mentioned and defined budget funds for the purpose already described, it is potentially desirable and smart to allocate more significant resources that would be sufficient to create a high budget film, through the best Hollywood production, directed by Germany, for example. James Cameron and actors from Hollywood's A List, such as Robert De Niro, presented to the world as giants, as they were, the Serbian state as centuries-old and enlightened, while at the same time killing all the expensive propaganda created in order to revise the world's historical flows and create some new creations, for the sake of interest that undermines the wealth of the heritage of our ancestors and centuries-old traditions. This could be a joint strategic project of the state, i.e. queens and its diaspora. Why do I say Hollywood production? So that such a grandiose display of Serbia's Nemanic exactly from there would go and touch the farthest corners of the planet Earth and correct, where it has not yet been done, awareness of the size and importance of the Serbian state and of all the peoples living in it through the centuries of existence. It is also natural for every Serb to support the preservation of our history and memories of the centuries-long duration of the Serbian state and church, because this is also the support of our future, which we are building on the pillars of our faith and great state ideas -- free and independent Serbia, built by our greatest rulers. I believe that, at the end of today's presentation on today's topic of the agenda, the appropriate scriptures have long been written in the glory of St. Sava, one of the founders of Hilandar - "that all the hearts with you, the sun of peace of love, should be united, that all sons, that we may live in the harmony of St. Savah help you, I desire the voice of my generation of the Serbian people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9378	Thank you. The next on the list is the popular MP Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9379	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, honourable ministers, Popovic, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, it is my honor to address today as speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the day we are talking about a very important law, the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Holy monastery of Hilandar. The Hilandar monastery since its founding on the initiative of St Sava and his father Stefan Nemanja in 1198 in St. Gora represents a unique centre of Serbian spirituality, culture, education and traditions and invaluable value for Serbian cultural and historical heritage. The Republic of Serbia, through its competent authorities, provides support and assistance to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery, through the implementation of the programme of preservation and care for the historical, religious and cultural traditions of the St. Hilandar monastery. President Aleksandar Vukic and Minister Nenad Popovic's visit to the Hilandar monastery on Christmas Day this year had an important message that funds for the restoration of the monastery would be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's promised and fulfilled. The funds have also been provided through project activities of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia has also defined 80m dinars for the restoration of monasteries for 2021. That is why the aim of this law is to ensure continued and law-based support and assistance from the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St Hilandar, with the continued and secure support of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is important to point out and today I think that this is a very important day for all of us here in this high house and for all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because today we are talking about a great saint who represents a significant cultural, historical and traditional value of our people. I would like to thank all my colleagues, previous speakers who have given very important and important information about the Hilandar monastery that I believe may not have known. Thank you for that today, thank you all. Thank you to the representatives of the government who have proposed this law to work on legal grounds to help and preserve our greatest tradition of the Holy monastery Hilandar. I also find it very important today to mention a few more important things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on, in addition to preserving the cultural and historical heritage of our people. What is very important is what is being advocated and done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state summit is that it is working to improve the conditions of all the life and work of our people, to work on improving the living conditions, the living standards of people through the large and significant projects that are being done and being done today. These are infrastructure projects, projects in the field of economic activity, projects in the field of agricultural production, the acceleration of people to live, to work, to have, young people in particular, given the importance of young people, that through technological development and the possibility of opening up a large number across the country of modern, world-wide standards, built cultural technological parks and start-up of a centre, where young people get a significant space for work, that they can live, work and stay in their environments. That is what the merits of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic and all the people who make sure that, for everything that needs to be progress, and to move forward. I wouldn't owe it to other things today, except for that, to say that it's very important next to this cultural and historical heritage that we're talking about and to point out the great struggle with the pandemic of the Coronus virus, which is bravely led by our state summit and medical workers and the competent institutions. So thanks to President Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the timely vaccine, the purchase of vaccines and the timely reaction of the summit of the state, our fellow citizens have the possibility of protecting against this dangerous disease. After the agreement between the two Presidents Alexander Vukic and Vladimir Putin, the preparation and production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in Torlak began with regular coordination with the experts and leadership of the Gamalej Institute and Minister Popovic, saying that the start of production of the vaccine at Torlak started when planned. Thank him for that because it meant a lot to our people and the possibility of being protected and treated. I would conclude that the state summit of the Republic of Serbia is truly fighting for its people, improving living standards and preserving the tradition of our people's cultural and historical heritage. In the day to vote, MPs of the Serbian People's Party – Nenad Popovic will vote in favour of the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of St. Hilandar and I hope that all other colleagues will also unanimously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9380	Thank you. The next on the list of MPs is Honored National MP Dunja Simonovic Bratic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9381	Thank you. Dear Mr. Odalovic, dear Mr. Krkobiæ, respected ministers with associates, the Law on the Protection of Hilandar is a sort of rounding of a continent along with the Law on Museum and Library Action and the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic and the rise of the Monuments to Stefan Nemanja and Stefan Lazarevic we are taking part in the Renaissance of the Serbian Middle Ages and the celebration of Serbian statehood. This year, in a cultural sense, will be one of those that will be remembered, full of strong symbolism and strong emotions that when they wake up they also seek great satisfaction. The story of Hilandar is the story of our spiritual roots, but also of our role models, of what we wanted to confess to us, or of who we are. In the holy acts of 1016, the monastery of this name was first mentioned and most likely was founded by the Greek monk Georgia Hilandaris, which means in translation – a boatman, which is characterized by monasteries in St. Gora to bear names by the interest of their founders. The life of Hilandar as a Serbian monastery begins with the arrival of Rastko Nemnjević in Sveta Gora, the youngest of the three sons of Stefan Nemanja, the great mayor. Born around 1174, Rustko, with permission from parents to go hunting with a Russian monk, actually fled to St. Gora. There are many dedications and lots of legends about his arrival and the blizzard. The spiritual transformation of Rastak into the Sava begins with the spiritual sacred history of the Serbs. Grand Mayor Stefan Nemanja was replaced in November 1197 by the closest followers of the Serb nobles who will be the first hilandarian brotherhood. The most important document in Hilandara's history is the Imperial Golden Charter of Alexi III Angel, the Byzantine Emperor of 1198, which gives Hilandar to Serbs on a gift forever. The biggest takeoff after the death of St. Sava in 1236 gave, along with all the rulers of the Nemnjević dynasty, Radislav, Uroš I, Dragutin, Milutin and King Stefan Dusan, by conquering the Byzantine territories he also won the Holy Mountain, in 1345 and that same year made the Golden Charter by guaranteeing the autonomy of the Holy Mountain. The period under the Turks for Hilandar and the Holy Mountain began in 1430, when a one-year-old harraser was designated. By the 17th century, that locket had increased 25 times. During a difficult period, various clitors, from Mare Brankovic via Ivan Grozno, contributed greatly. This history of survival is a marriage to the diplomatic skill of the Hilandarian brotherhood. The most critical period in the preservation of Hilandar is probably almost so the takeover by Bulgarians, the attempt to take over Hilandar in the 18th and 19th centuries, Zograf and Hilandar disputes, the Sanstefan Treaty and the Berlin Congress marked the period. At that absent moment in 1896, Aleksandar Obrenovic set out for the opening of modern Olympic games in Athens. This is a truly interesting historical parallel, since these Olympic games are synonyms for the domination of imperialism and the destruction of man as a spiritual and freedom being. The paradox is that he saved the Orthodox moment. It should be said that the ancient Olympic Games were a role model for these modern ones, and they were in the glory of the Greek gods, i.e. Pagan par excellance ceremony. We know how paganism went by Christianity -- in the leadership of Emperor Theodosius, who in 380, declared Christianity to be the only official religion in the Roman Empire and banned both Olympic games and other pagan celebrations, and burned and destroyed temples and libraries. Alexander Obrenović then bought it, i.e. He returned the debts of Hilandar and saved both the monks and the entire complex of Hilandara. In gratitude, the monks gave Alexander the Gospel of Miroslav and the Gospel of the Vulcan. What happened next in the 20th century is more familiar to the public. The point is that more or less than its founding Hilandar and its brotherhood were almost in an unbreakable relationship with the queen of Serbia and its rulers, i.e. I'm in charge. What is important and what we have heard is the fact that by adopting this law, we will provide continued care for Hilandar and the monks who live there. Of course, this does not exclude many individuals who leave and donate the monastery, which are growing year after year. Except for the year marked by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, on average, for the last three years, according to our Thessaloniki consulate, between 10,000 and 11000 of our citizens live in Hilandara annually. In the end, the real question is what does Hilandar mean to us today, and what does this law have to establish? First of all, a culture of memory, which among other things will affirm the visantological studies and the study of our statehood, art, culture, as many researchers go to the Vatican as the headquarters of Western civilization, opens the doors of the rich Hilandar monastery treasurer for as many scientists and researchers as possible. Also, give the Svetosavian cult the power of philosophy to allow the transition from Svetosavia as a religious teaching to the Svetosavlje, which contains a life-long principle based on the freed spirit of the Serbian people. The holy mountain is the place that exists. It's not utopia. A magnificent exception dedicated to the mother of nature and mother of God, where she lives in harmony and equality, in the congregation, with dignity and in diversity, in silence and silence, in self-sufficientness, but also in love and prayer for the whole world. In the story of the founding of Hilandar as a foundation stands the most beautiful of parental love. Namely, the 17-year-old boy Rastko took not only his father, Grand Mayor Stefan Nemanja, but the entire Serb race on the road that we are going now, and together with us and ahead of us our children are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9382	Thank you. The next on the list is Honourable MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9383	Thank you. God help everyone! Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, thank you for this law. I must say that I will be grateful as long as I am alive to a respected professor, Ziki Bujuklic, from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, unfortunately today, to a retired pensioner, because his lectures on Hilandar, which he held for years at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, had a terrible impact on us students. Thank him for teaching us to appreciate what we have. We as a people, thank God, have a lot to do. The size of one nation is not seen only in numbers, though, if we hadn't been killed so much in the 20th century, and we weren't so badly assimilated, and in this we could see our size. Unfortunately, today when someone can rise, and here, there is Professor Atlagic, one Krupa, Krk, the Dragovici monastery, some others can rise, if that is even commendable, Jasenovac, Jadovna and similar, Stari Gradiško, because that is their history. Besides bowing and killing and pathological hatred for our people, they couldn't show anything, and, well, we can, thank God. It's a huge size for us as far as our medieval history is concerned. You know, we don't have to today, as some try to violently invent nations, to invent churches, to invent languages, we, thank God, had both a historical and a state-of-the-art people. We've had a glorious medieval state and Hilandar is the crown of it. I must say, first of all, I'm a trusting man, and equally, as a believing man, I respect every other religion. I'm happy that in our Serbia, one multicultural state, each of us can go to the Muslim next door to Bajram and he can come to us for Christmas and christening and socializing and respecting each other. I'm so happy to see today that our church president has never had a better relationship. It's a big thing to have a strong symbiosis between the church and the state. Because that's the only way we can be united to win. We can talk about what we want, and all kinds of authorities have been through history and marked by an era. Remember them, some were good, some were bad, but each of them passed, and the church did not pass, faith did not pass. You can deny any ideology. And Marks's "Capital" anyone can deny, the Holy Scriptures cannot, it remains. That's why this is very important. Our holy church today survives again by frightening the pogrom, and I just cited why. You know when you have in your history one Ravanica, one Manasija, Gracanica, Devič, Decana, Archangel, when you have the Sharp, when you have the Morachi, when you have Pipers, when you have Žitojić and in all these things, I will always say to the Serbian countries, you have one testimony that our people lived there, and the monastery is a testimony. These others don't exactly show some of their cultural historical monuments from that period that they were state-of-the-art. We do, thank God. That's why it bothers you. That's why they tell you that your church is no less or more the fruit of a great Serbian hegemony. How can it be something that is a cultural historical monument, a fruit of great Serbian hegemony? Then according to that logic today, it is also the fruit of a great Serbian hegemony, because it was your bishop in those temples. That's why we have to keep our church safe, because she kept us safe. All the occupations we had, the people were killed, but the church survived. No matter how burned she was, no matter how much she was destroyed, but she survived, the Lord kept her safe. And that's why this is a very important law, an incredibly important law. Because for the first time, we show how important the SPC is to us. I'm not just going to talk about how much we helped the SPC as the government that came after 2012, how much reconstruction of the temples and how much investment was invested in the SPC. Someone says - shame on you, you give money to the SPC outside of Serbia, of course we do. It's our cultural historical heritage and we're proud of it. Also, I have to say, however anyone condemns me, but I dream of that chapel coming back up to Hunten. I live for that day. I live because it's something that's embarrassing and scandalous that's been brought down in the first place. Now someone can condemn me, say -- you're a big Serbian hegemonist. No, I'm not, I'm just for what was truly historic, to keep it grounded. I don't mind that others plead whatever they want, but, please, you can't deny history, you can't deny the fact that you're denying it, and we're obliged to protect it. Today, when we have a terrible blow to KIM, it's the church that keeps us safe. Even though we don't have our authority on KIM, we have a church and it guards us, because it is a testimony that we are there and that we are a historical people who had a state. So, thanks for this. I must say, our priests have lived through the history of terrifying pogroms. We are, unfortunately, still ashamed to say it, and they survived, of course, under the Ustashas. Look at just how many priests were killed in the Upper Carolina diocese. Three episcopes killed our Ustashas. We keep our mouths shut today. All because of some brotherhood and unity we used to keep it quiet, not to mention the communist period how much the church suffered and how they destroyed our church. We have a problem today, even though I am, of course, someone who is absolutely for that kind of national reconciliation, I'm not about to dig up war axes, let's go ahead, but we can't deny history anymore and keep quiet. We're, like, marking an event in Prajani today, and I'm very proud to mark it, but still on RTS, what do we hear? We hear that Serbian peasants helped, he says, with pilots. They are not Serbian peasants, it was the Yugoslav Army in the country of Draža Mihajlovic. They were Chetniks. What's the problem with saying that? Why do we keep denying it? Why are we keeping this quiet? So, to this national reconciliation, we have to go with something we've had through history, and we've had a magnificent medieval history. I'm glad that there's a monument built and we have to say that to Stefan Nemanja. Why? Because a lot of people are criticizing us today that we're not with the eagle. No, no, there's a monument built for statesman Stefan Nemanja, not Saint Simeon Mirocivi. Today, we still have a problem in the media telling us who some of our lighthouses are, because someone's always contesting it. Some non-governmental sector is reporting here, so it's challenging and you can't say anything nice about Nikolai Velimirovic. I always want to say, we had the Holy Vlad Nikola Velimirovic, proud of what he left behind. As we are, of course, proud of the Holy Sava, as we are proud of St. Simeon Mirocivi, as we are proud of St. Peter Cetinjski, we are proud of St. Nicholas Velimirovic and proudly say it here. Thank you for making the Serbian Church and our country, especially the President of the Republic, this symbiosis. Thank God we're stronger on the cultural agenda, and that's why we're going to step up in economics, and we're going to step up in the military. You know, these others that have a complex and they see some big Serbian hegemony all the time, because they don't have anything to show, and we do, I can't help them. Hate won't come anywhere, and we love and just like this cultural and historical heritage we have, and Hilandar is certainly something that's most beautiful, we can really admire and show the whole world what we own and what a sovereign people we were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9384	I thank the honourable Members of the people for their presentation. Now one notice. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break for an hour and ten minutes. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9385	Dear fellow Members of the People, we continue to report for word. The first on the list is MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9386	President-in-Office, respected ministers with an associate, respected Serbian citizens, respected MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of St. Hilandar, precisely the fruit of President Aleksandr Vukic Hilandara's visit. I must stress that President Aleksandar Vukic was received and welcomed by the monks just as all the important Serbian most famous rulers, who fought to preserve Serbian sanctity and the Serb people through our glorious history. Today is a historic day and today our 12th Assembly of the National Assembly enters Serbia's history with this law. He represents the following things. We need to know that Hilandar is the only Serbian institution that has continued work and continued existence, and as the only Serbian institution it has existed since its founding since 1198, and it is uninterrupted Serbian. So, since 1198 Hilandar has been uninterrupted Serbian. We have repeatedly lost the status of our state through history, lost the status of the church, and thus the state institutions and churches have shut down, and our only institution, i.e. Our sacred monastery Hilandar, it existed always at a time when Greece was occupied by the Turks. In addition to cultural and historical goods, we need to know how the Hilandar monastery itself works. We need to know that no one's ever paid for a stay there, no one's ever paid for a meal. So everyone there is welcome, has a free stay, secure free transportation from the dock to the monastery itself, have secured two meals and these two meals are just over 800 years old, which are being prepared there, according to the recipe of St. Sava. I want to give you an example, since I often stay in Hilandara, and I know how the monastery lives, how it breathes. There is no power grid in the Holy Mountain, so the Hilandar monastery is forced to manage to supply electricity in its own direction, through aggregates. These aggregates, of course, work on oil, and somewhere they spend only in the season, per day, between 300 and 500 euros. It's somewhere around 15,000 a month, which is a significant and large number, not only for Hilandar, but for any institution, and where we have some additional costs that are being followed. We heard from our fellow Members of the People's Parliament important historical data, we heard that in Hilandar today we have 50 monks guarding our sanctuary, but we also heard that we in Hilandar have registered from 15 to 17 thousand nights a year. It's a large number of people who come there, who visit our sanctuary and on that basis, just think about how much of the means it is to just feed those people, let alone everything else. By this law we preserve our cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery, and we also determine safe financial assistance for the functioning and restoration of the monastery. I will refer to the typical of St. Sava, where it stands clearly and determines how monks should live in Hilandara, but also as Serbs should live in Serbia, and in Saint-Satan Serbia, which through the sacrosanct is determined by our guidance, and also by this world-class keyboard is also the star of leadership for our President Alexander Vukic, who returns everything that is important and important to Serbia, for Serbs, wherever they live. When he proposed to raise a monument to Stefan Nemanja, when a grand ceremony marked the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag a few days ago, it was just led by a saintly world where Saint-Serb Serbia never hates anyone, it loves respect for all nations, but must take care of all Serbs wherever they live. What we all need to know, and that is, we have heard from our fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, I will repeat that, where the Holy Council in the Amanet of Serbs, means a vow to the Serbs left the Hilandar monastery. And he said that every male Serb head should visit this sanctuary at least once during his life. But he also said that everyone in Serbia should take care of Hilandar as their home. Someone's helping someone, someone's doing some work, and someone's praying, but that care has to exist. By this law, in fact, we are all Members of the People's Parliament and every part of Serbia that we represent has been united with Hilandar, and we bring this law on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that through history there were certain regulations that regulated the relationship of the state and the monastery of Hilandar, but now by law we make sure that we seal and fulfill the vow of the Holy Sava, because as we today care about this holiness, so we leave our future generation to worry about this very law on the monastery. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that in 2004, the year of death for the Serbian people, on March 4th, when a fire broke out in Hilandara, and then there was a Serb pogrom on March 17th with KIM. That fire was the biggest fire in the history of the Hilandar monastery, but now, this is also today the biggest restoration of the Hilandar monastery, after King Milutin. It is a great blessing for our time and for this 12th convocation of the National Assembly, to vote for such a law, for it also helps the restoration of the Hilandar monastery. Since January, our president, at the initiative of our President Alexander Vukic, has been paid serious funds for the restoration of the monastery. After the monument to Stefan Nemanja, after the end of St Sava's temple on Vracar, this law really shows which way Serbia is going. Serbia is going through Europe, to be European, but also to be world-class. At the end of my presentation, I'd like to point out that every rate of the world is in Hilandar. Imagine a line that grows from a stone that is over 800 years old, located in a place where Saint Simeon, the father of the Holy Sava, retired. It is a miraculous lineage through which many families have received their generations and based on it and through it has been born through the centuries of thousands of children. This line is amazing because married couples who have problems and who cannot have children, using it and following instructions, succeed in having children. Not only children born in Serbia, but children born in Greece, Russia, Moldova, Ukraine, the whole world. I wanted to bring the Hilandar monastery near today to this very high home and the citizens of Serbia, I brought a haircut from the Hilandar monastery, you know very well as you've been there several times, so look at this haircut from the hilandarian sculptures. As we say, the sculptors of the Hilandar -- it's a personal map of the Hilandar monastery. When you look at this haircut in the middle there's a cross. Where does something like this exist in the world? These sculptors are over 800 years old and today they're in that place where they've been before. What fascinated me the first time I visited the Hilandar monastery was the entrance to the church itself. The threshold of marbles, which may be about 30, 40cm thick, is said to be originally made, but in the middle, it has not been laid down, but is strained by the steps of the most important Serbian rulers and Serbs over the centuries. That's what's fascinating. That's what we all need to experience and that whoever is able to go to the Hilandar monastery must do. Imagine the birth today and the olive tree of Emperor Dushan, which he himself planted. Based on it, these fruits, based on it, are made of olive oil, holy manast olive oil from Hilandara, which I also brought here to the National Assembly to show you. The well that dug up St. Sava in 1198 never drys. It's a great honor and a blessing to drink water from that well. The Hilandar connects every Serb, every Serbian house, every Serbian child, every Serbian parent, but respecting and loving everyone else. Let this day live to remember this day as a historic day when all of us MPs here in the National Assembly fulfilled the vow of the Holy Sava, united Hilandar with the Serbian people wherever he was. I come from Jagodina, my fellow MPs come from other parts of Serbia and we besides our Serbia, next to our Serbian house, have another house, which is the Hilandar monastery. Here, I am also bringing you a blessing from our House of Hilandar and this blessing I will give to our head of Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, that we have just the memory of this day. Long live Serbia, lived the Hilandar monastery, lived President Vukic!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9387	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic, for the inspired presentation, and the next colleague is Violeta Okokoljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9388	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have today a law whose intention is to systematically regulate the preservation of both the material and the immaterial heritage of our lighthouse of Serbia in St. Gora. With this proposal, we are actually creating a legal framework to provide permanent, continuous assistance from the Republic of Serbia's budget for reconstruction and reconstruction of the Hilandar monastery. In my address, I will not look very much at the importance of the Hilandar monastery because my colleagues have done so in previous exhibitions, but it is very important for me to have that moment of national consciousness and needs and the desire to and how it works to preserve our cultural and historical heritage. Finally, as a state, we became strong, stable and able to define the limits of the Serbian cultural space, the space where the Serbian people left traces of their existence. We as a people and as a state have not been able to preserve everything that has been witnessed Serbianly, we have already reached one level of national consciousness, then a social and economic standard and a desire to ensure, in addition to preserving cultural heritage in our country, that we are equally concerned about the preservation of cultural and historical heritage beyond Serbia's borders, and in today's era and the end of history, this seems to be a necessary step. We are witnessing, unfortunately, that cultural goods, Serbian monasteries and all that is most sacred to the Serbian people and to the Serbian church are trying to take advantage of those who have nothing to commend themselves with, so they are trying to adopt others. You can't today, the Cetina monastery, which is the guardian of Peter First Petrovic Negos and the guardian of the crown of Despot Stefan Lazarevic, is considered to be owned by a Montenegrin state. Simply, the Cetina monastery is a defacto property of the SPC and any attempt to change its history and its significance can not bring anything good to the Montenegrin people or to the Montenegrin authorities. As a country through distant history, we were an example of the protection not only of our own cultural heritage, but of the protection of all that was worth, no matter what people belonged to. So today we are extremely proud when we can say that we respect the high level of multiculturality in Vojvodina, and that is why today it bothers us when we see that he is trying to destroy everything that is Serbian in the countries in the environment. A little by little, but every mention and an attempt to protect everything that is Serbian, the Helsinki Committee on Human and Minority Rights has come to the attention of the MPs, which to individual foreign embassies, is concerned, first of all, that there has been a capitalization of the Montenegrin-Primordian Metropolitan, and then concerned about the fact that we are trying to protect the Cyrillic as a Serbian letter here in the National Assembly. Interesting, but the reaction always occurs when it comes to the omens of Serbian, when it comes to the protection of Serbian. You know, patriotism is a matter of key education to us, and when Sonja Biserko makes an appeal in which she says, and I'm going to quote, that the Cyrillic is intimidated by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who chose the Latin for their own letter, I can really tell her that she shouldn't be afraid, that she can keep writing with the Latin that she chose for her letter, just as she can continue to receive a medal from the Croatian presidents. She may not be bothered by the persecution of the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, as they may not mind the crossed Cyrillic inscriptions in the Federation of BiH. Also, she may not be bothered by the constant frequent attacks on the children of the president of the Republic, whose rights and how seriously threatened, and of course she may not be bothered by these attacks by the so-called Kosovo army on the Serb people in the north of our southern Serbian province. When you know the fact that the Helsinki Committee for Human and Minority Rights is funding over 30 foreign embassies, you simply don't ask the question of what is the cause of all these appeals, but the question remains what about that home education that we should all have brought from the house and that the grandmother left us to, to whom the grandmother taught us, and whether there's still a little bit of what we brought from the house when any appeal in this way points out. However, to me, on the other hand, attacks like this are really looking forward to everything that is Serbian by NGOs, because these terrible hatreds really recommend that we do something very good for the Serbian people and for the Serbian state. I will certainly support this bill in general and call on all fellow Members of the People to do so in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9389	Thank you. The next is MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9390	Mr. Vice-President, Minister Popovic, the great Serbian poet Matija Bećkovic said Hilandar is the lowest stone of our spiritual existence and this generation of Serbs, our generation, testifys to the return of Hilandar, the lowest stone of our spiritual existence. The return to Hilandar, whose witnesses we are, the participants, is not only a return to memory of our glorious ancestors, the great upsurgences of our spirituality, our politics, our state, but an inspiration to devise the present and strong guidance where we should go. Hilandar and this law are not just about preserving cultural and spiritual and historical heritage. When we return to Hilandar, to preserve cultural and spiritual heritage, we preserve living faith and a true source of spiritual existence and real life. When we return to Hilandara we return to our national identity which was established by the founder of the Hilandar monastery and can freely say the founder of our nation and our identity, Saint Sava, which is Orthodox religion, national church, national state, language, independence and freedom. Through history, especially the history of the 20th century, Serbs have had many revolutions. Each of these revolutions was a regression compared to the natural course of Serbian history and Serbian statehood. It was the path to internationalism, either that communist, or that after the fall of communism, which always demanded that nations and religions be offered on their sacrificial altars for some false and inconceivable progress. However, as I return to Hilandar, I can only quote Mom Kapor who was there when he was staying said that it was a place where you realize that success, money and glory and everything we slave to is worth nothing. We are now witnesses, returning to Hilandar, during our generation, free to say during this government, we are returning and renewing another kind of revolution, returning to true identity, true spiritual roots and what is a natural Serbian path through history. We do our saints, we remember our ancestors, our glory and our victims, we raise churches, we restore monasteries, we defend our brothers in the region. This very return to Hilandar is, in fact, proof that the Serbian state and the Serbian people are finally on the right path of restoration established by our founder of the Holy Sava, and today this revolution to which we are witnesses, the national revolution which has its natural path in this law, in return to Hilandar, testifies to a self-aware new, strong and dignified Serbia which today has a clear path which was the path of founder of Hilandar, which is to remain faithful to tradition, but open to the world. Yes, this is a historic event that has its beginning in the Christmas visit of President Vukic and Minister Popovic to Hilandara, and this is not only a decision on the permanent financing of our great sanctity, but has provided payment, a full payment for the restoration of Hilandar, which suffered in the 2004 fire in March of the month of many Serbian tragedies. Yes, this generation of Serbia can be proud because it will be recorded in history and no one will ever be allowed to abolish the law that we are making today, but that all Serbs remember the names of President Vukic and Minister Popovic, who were in Hilandar and launched this process by Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, who has proposed law and all MEPs to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who will adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9391	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. Next is counterpart Marija Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9392	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today a bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery. This law regulates the way the help and support of the Republic of Serbia will be provided to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar monastery. The Ministry of Culture and Information held a public debate on the draft of this law between July 9th and 30th 2021, where suggestions and proposals for this law could be heard, which further contributed to the improvement of the adoption of this law. The Hilandar monastery since its founding in 1198 is the most important centre of Serbian culture, spirituality, education and traditions and is invaluable value for Serbian, cultural and historical heritage. Over the centuries, relatively protected from attacks, as well as robbery in the security of St. Atonska, Hilandar was spared the fate of nearly all Serb monasterys. The Hilandar preserves the richest collection of original ancient manuscripts, icons, frescoes, so Hilandar represents the largest treasure of Serbian medieval culture at all. Since 1988, along with the other 19 holy monasteries, the monastery has been for UNESCO's World Heritage List as part of the monuments of the Middle Ages united under the protection of Mount Athos. The Hilandar Treasury is one of the few in the world to boast of the many unique, unique treasures that have been poured into Hilandar from all over the world. The treasure represents a spirituality that gives meaning to value from all material objects found in Hilandar. Each material item has a specific meaning and role in the spirit world. The aim of the bill, now in front of the MPs, is to provide continued and legally-based support and assistance to the Republic of Serbia to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar and, in this sense, to restore, reconstruct and preserve the Hilandar monastery, with constant and secure financial support from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This law will allow the funding for the implementation of the project for the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar monastery to be provided from other funds, i.e. from the budget of the autonomous province and from the budget of local self-government, as well as through other donations. The individual objectives of this law, as I have already said, concern first and foremost the preservation, restoration, protection and improvement of the state of property of the Hilandar monastery, but one of the very important objectives of this law is to raise awareness and knowledge of the Serbian cultural and historical heritage located on the Holy Mountain. In one place he wrote that he was not building the Hilandar for himself, but for the people, because where the clergy will be trained better, but in St. Gora, and from where the better dogma will be transferred to Serbia, but from St. Gora. Raised as an educational center, Hilandar still designs deep devotion to prayer, as his builders Stefan Nemanja and his son St. Sava had imagined. Today we live in a country that is not ashamed of its past and who proudly remembers its greats through history and who proudly remembers his glorious past. Serbia today, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, leads a policy that advocates Serbia's better future, thus also favours preserving the memory of our glorious history and of our past and glorious giants. Well, so today we have finished the temple of St. Sava in Belgrade, then, a monument to Stefan Nemanja at the Sava Kei, a monument to Prince Lazar in Kruševec, as well as many other restored cultural, historical and spiritual heritage in our country. Of course, you'll be working on it in the next period. Thanks to Alexander Wolf, we know today who we are, where we come from and where we're going. I will vote in the day of voting, certainly, with great pleasure, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9393	Thank you. The next is MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9394	Ladies and gentlemen, the Hilandar monastery protection bill is another proof of the continuity of the responsible policy that Serbia's current leadership is leading towards important national topics. I will remind you that two months ago in Serbia, the film and TV series "Storm" began shooting in Serbia. So Serbia will first receive its first film testimony after 26 years on Europe's largest ethnic cleansing since World War II, in which Croats and Croatian states killed 2,000 Serbs, and expelled 250,000 of them into the white world, leaving no more than 250,000 Serbs who had been expelled from Zagreb, other Croatian cities and landscapes earlier. A month and a half ago, on August 5th, near Belgrade with an impressive event, Serbia reminded the local and world public of the death of the Serb people in Croatia in World War II, in the war between 1991 and 1995, and in particular the aforementioned criminal action "Storm", with the presence of, which is very important, the complete leadership of the Republic of Serbia, the leadership of Republika Srpska, the patriarch of Serbian Porfiri and the highest representatives of the Serbian people and neighbouring countries. Seven days ago, on September 15th, an impressive gathering of Serbian national unity over the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the National Flag was held in Belgrade again with the presence of top Serbian people from Serbia and Republika Srpska and the region. On that same day, a Cyrillic Protection Act was passed here in the Serbian Parliament. This was the first time Serbia has received a Law on the Protection of National Letters in its history. And today here at this session, we are discussing a law on the protection of the Hilandar monastery. If God does, tomorrow Serbia will receive for the first time in its history a law that will protect one of the greatest Serbian and national sanctities. As you can see, in just two months, we have five significant events, five significant events, five significant topics, significant to preserve the history of memory, to preserve historical truth, to preserve national identity and self-respect. And we've got it all organized by the state. Now go back, say, 10, 15 or 20 years ago, so try to imagine that all of this is happening at the time of some of the previous authorities. Can you imagine making films about Paštrik, Kosharam, the Koridor breakthrough in 1992, Jasenovac or "Storm" on the orders of former and current DOS leaders? I mean, you can imagine, but it just wasn't possible at the time. There are several explanations for that. First of all, these people simply did not pay attention to national issues, that this was important to them as last year's snow. Another possible explanation is, which should not be excluded, that these people were not aware of the importance of these issues for the Serbian nation and for the Serbian state and the third possible explanation is that they did not want or should not have objected to these Western mentors who, on 5 October, brought them into power by public coup and perhaps not to object to official Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina, etc., counting on such a service policy to ensure longer survival in power. Although it's most likely that it's all three of these explanations. If that were not the case, it would not have happened, let's say, that instead of the laws that matter for the Serb nation, at the time of the Dossow government in this assembly, they adopt a declaration condemning the non-existent genocide in Srebrenica, hitting the mark on the face of the Serb people, the mark on the face of the people over which the greatest crime of genocide in the history of civilization was committed. What happened on Vidovdan could not happen, I mean the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, which is certainly one of the biggest national humiliations in Serbia's recent history. Now these days, from the negligence of Florens Artman, she was a spokesman for The Hague tribunal, we read that the then DOS leaders were not satisfied with the degree of humiliation that would humiliate the Serbian people by handing over Slobodan Milosevic, but that they required the NATO Pact and the UN tribunal to do so on the same day, but explicitly on Vidovdan hand over Ratko Mladic. I will now read two sentences from her book -- the Serbian prime minister, that was Zoran Djindjic, the rest of his soul, who calls the chief prosecutor on the phone that afternoon to inform her that the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic is under way, suggests he immediately hand over Mladic if NATO can act without delay for four hours, he suggests. What's this about? It is an assessment that the police are not willing to overpower Ratko Mladic's security. It is an assessment that the military will not agree to participate in this shameful act, and then a NATO pact is called. From this formulation, if it can act within four hours, I can only conclude that a man has called on the NATO pact to execute a right-wing, some command action in Serbia, so if he can together within four hours, arrest Ratko Mladic, transfer him to Tuzla, from Tuzla to The Hague tribunal, then we have a complete national humiliation. We humiliated Serbia with the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, and we humiliated Republika Srpska to the end with the extradition of Ratko Mladic. In this bill, I would particularly highlight a provision that envisions the Serbian government's obligation to educate the Hilandar monastery commission to oversee the implementation of this law. I think that's a good solution. The Serbian government otherwise has more than 100 different agencies, councils, commissions. Many of them are completely unnecessary, have become paraministry and need serious consideration about their abolition. This power has already done something about it, but I think we should do more. Most of these agencies were formed at the time of previous authorities. Not to mention, at the time of the two last governments controlled by the DS, as many as 63 agencies and commissions were formed. I am pleased that after the real flood of these unnecessary agencies, the commission today is adopting a law that provides for the establishment of a commission whose existence is fully justified. This attitude of the state towards its history, such by passing laws that are of national and state interest, by marking significant events from the national history of Serbia, encourages the awakening of national consciousness. Someone more, someone less, but everyone. I don't think there's a Serb who didn't get emotional seven days ago as he watched the streets and Belgrade be defiling echelons of the Serb army with flags of famous army regiments and the Kingdom of Serbia from the Balkan and First World War. Just after those powerful impressions I brought from the Sava Square, the next day, along with a delegation of the Municipality of Velika Plan, I visited Kajmachalan again. We brought with us three priests and a folk pirate. We were able to put the bell on St. Elijah's church in the Caymans, and as the media announced, for the first time in half a century, the church bell broke down. After who knows how long a true Orthodox prayer was finally revealed in the church, and besides the Memorial of the bones of four hundred Serbian heroes, a parastos was served. How solemnly that day was in the Caymans and what it meant to us, I will illustrate it with one example. The oldest member of the Ivo Pisarevic delegation, president of the Association of Seeds from 1912 to 1918, an old 82-year-old, went to the top of the mountain on foot, barefoot, all the time holding the Serbian flag in his hands. Now, as it was a great privilege on that day for the citizens of Serbia and the Great Plan to be represented in Kymakcalan, so is the great privilege today for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the Great Plan to represent in the Serbian Assembly that adopts the Law on the Protection of the Hilandar monastery, the law on the protection of one of its great national and state-run sanctities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9395	Thank you, Mr. Maric. Next is counterpart Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9396	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The Hilandar monastery represents an invaluable value for Serbia's cultural and historical heritage and is listed in the UNESCO World Cultural and Natural Heritage List and it is therefore important to arrange a way of supporting and assisting the Republic of Serbia. The goal is to ensure continued and legally-based support and assistance in rebuilding, reconstruction and preservation with constant and secure financial assistance from the Republic of Serbia's budget, thus showing that Serbia is safeguarding its history and tradition. My colleagues have talked a lot about the importance of the St Hilandar monastery and I will not repeat myself, because the fact that it is of great and invaluable importance to the Serbian people. Maybe someone will criticise this, too, because we have individuals who absolutely criticize everything in Serbia. They also criticised the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, but all that is currently being built in Serbia, and even criticised the networking, i.e. the construction of roads and railways. That, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is criticised by the very ones who put this country in so much debt and all of us that only a few years ago we were on the verge of bankruptcy. We replaced the poor borrowing and charging of our own pockets and accounts with the responsible leadership of our country with President Aleksandr Vukic and in a transparent way presented to the citizens that they knew where and how their money was spent. Today, citizens see new hospitals, new roads, railways, seeing reconstructed schools, kindergartens, reconstructed monasteries, temples, and the share of public debt in GDP remains below 60%, namely 58.4%, and despite all the aid measures that the state has implemented. Now the state only has money because the finances of the past period have been treated domestically, which has helped us to successfully cope with all the challenges we have faced because of the root of the virus. Citizens see and feel it, because in addition to everything that is being built in our country, wages and pensions continue to grow continuously despite all kinds of aid packages that have followed and will follow citizens and businesses, and I will remind you that today all pensioners are paid 50 euros, i.e. 5,900 dinars, and that in February or March of the following year, pensioners will be paid additional financial aid of 20,000 dinars. In addition to preserving history and traditions on the one hand, our country, on the other hand, puts an emphasis on the development of digitisation, thus making the government’s focus available to finance innovative companies, the development of digital infrastructure, investment in research and development. These targets will be actively run through 35 177.6m-euro projects. Serbia is investing significantly in the development of eGovernment, innovation and digitisation. Significant results have been achieved in education, innovation infrastructure, construction of scientific and technological parks, start-up centres. As we were one step ahead of many when, as one of the government's priorities a few years ago, we put the digitalisation process in front of us today, five new priorities, which are artificial intelligence, biotechnology, biomedicine, smart cities, the future of mobility and the use of geo-space data. Serbia has become a very attractive place for investment. All of this shows us the inflow of foreign direct investment, and by which we are an absolute leader in the region, so we see a lot of newly opened factories throughout Serbia, and only a few days ago is the Swiss lighting factory Regent in Svilajnc, where 120 workers will be employed at the beginning, and soon there are 200 jobs planned, which is essential for all employees and future employees, as well as for their families, because this significantly increases the standard of living. Out of the unemployment rate of 26% and double-digit inflation, today we have reduced the unemployment rate to about 10% and preserved at the time of the Coronation virus. Today, people do not fear for their existence, no locks are being placed on factories today, but new ones are constantly opening up across Serbia. We've renovated and built a lot compared to 2012. Serbia today is a major construction site, but there is a big job ahead of us, because only by hard work, as we can make progress so far. Also, it will continue to increase wages and pensions because that is how we return our people to our hearths, because today in their country they can live well on decent work. Serbia is today a stable and strong state that is fighting for its people and its interests, but not endangering anyone else because Serbia is fighting for both economic progress and for peace and stability. What is most important today is what we do in the interest of our country, our citizens, we do for our children, because with this policy we build solid foundations for the safe future of our descendants. Although we face great pressures because many people are troubled by strong Serbia, we need to be more complicated than ever. We are here to preserve and not to forget our history and tradition, our culture on one side, but also to invest and fight for a safe future and always love and care for our people wherever it is on the other side. In Voting Day, together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9397	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. Next MP, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we who are somewhat older know how much SPC has suffered during the communist order in the former SFRY. I am one of the few who used to have parents take him to church and I know well what the consequences of believing in God at the time, or being a member of the SPC as a believer. So, if you want to recite songs for the Holy Sava as a child, that means that you are excluded from all of the children's and youth activities taken by the Communist and Communist parties at the time, both in primary and secondary schools. I also attended more times the repression that was committed against parents, including children who had the courage to be believers. I am one of the few who recited poems for the Holy Sava, which was a custom, at least in Srem where I lived, that children from elementary schools, and sometimes younger ones recite those songs to the greatest Serbian lighthouse and founder of the SPC. The most beautiful song I remembered was the song by Vojislav Ilic, who began: “He who strikes so late in the nighttime peace, at the gate of the locked St. George monastery. Open to me the honorable eyes of the monastery's heavy door, and receive the king's son as your youngest brother." So these verses are mostly remembered, unlike the verses that were dedicated to the great dictator and enemy soldier, who at that time had in every village the best street of his own called the street of Marshal Tito. It's a rare settlement, and all the cities that I would return those names to, all the cities took, I don't know, Tito's Užice, Tito's Veles, Tito's Vrbas, etc. I remember that in elementary school, we who had common street names, say Pregrevica, when I get up, I have to say so shyly, when a teacher or teacher asks, “And from which street you are,” I say, “Preheatica”, while the children of communists, those who were proud of it, were proud to say, “I am from Tito. ” I also remember that I never wore a staff, because I wasn't decent enough and I had a two-man Russian because the teacher of Russian language in elementary school was the president of a party cell in my village, and it was in no way appropriate for him to have his students go to church and be believers, especially to recite. I also remember in Novi Karlovci the first major rebellion, religious, youth when young people are determined not to lose part of Serbia's national identity, the SPC is an integral part, one of the main components of Serbia's national identity. For example, it was supposed to be some dance, it was going down on Christmas, then they were faithful to Tito, their god, the enemy soldier, they ripped out those marshals or what they called those reinforcements and banned some kind of dance that ended up in the church with - your birth, Christ our God, the train, etc., to what was the reaction, the figurines blue with blue lights, blue mares around the church, etc. I remember the priest Bulatovic, who looked as big as a house to me, who banned armed police from entering the church, standing in front of us at the door and saying: "The red devil cannot go to church with weapons," I remember. So, at the time, everything was not clear to me, I now understand that the Serbian Church is one of the main holders of the Serbian national identity, that it should certainly be preserved, cultural and other heritage of Hilandara, but that all churches and all monasteries on the territory of the former Yugoslavia should be kept, of course, throughout the world because they were very important to some who lived before us, but they will certainly also mean to some who live after us. It's logical to take care of Hilandar. After the Father, the Son, it's our turn to get to the Holy Spirit that's floating over Hilandar somewhere. So because of the Sanhedrin, etc., after Stefan's Negativity and the temple of the Holy Sava, it's logical to do even more to protect Hilandar. Are there any politicians who usually leave something behind? There are politicians, even among the communists there were politicians who secretly or publicly helped the SPC and something went to church, something puts on an icon, something beside the icon, that some contribution, you might as well be the curator of some monastery. Out of repentance, the Serbian clergy gives an opportunity, as God gives everyone the right to change their minds, although I don't think those communists have really changed their minds, but my God, I'm not God. The priests are God’s servants, and they think that the return of some unbelievers to religious ranks is significant. Many of them entered the church to contribute, to leave, but there are politicians who went to church for their own gain. I will tell you, you certainly know, Mr. Martinović, the name and last name, if I say "Bosko Ljotic", you will know "Boškić Ljotic" who it is. So it's one of the few politicians who went to church not to leave something, but to take something. You certainly remember that priest who publicly told the newspaper what happened in Hilandara when he milked his own time miners, the ones that work underground. So he solved a little bit about this Holy Spirit to be used, so it was a little 50,000 euros from the Colubar mine, so as in the name of the family organization, he went to Hilandar and presented himself as a protector of family values, etc., which the church warmly supported, and it certainly wasn't a problem. The problem was that Bosko Ljotic's persona, etc., swore before the icon Three-handed that he would not make a party, that he would not be involved in politics, but that his organization would only protect family values, which I would welcome, and at that time, many of us, donated to such a family organization to protect family, family and traditional values. But look at the wonders. He took an oath and lied. He lied, and priests who were also interested in family values, preserving traditional values, including going to church, spiritual etc., gave gifts to the person, "Boška Ljotica", with 5,000 euros. So the priests in Hilandar were, no matter what the church did not deal with politics, and it was not a political issue, he said he would deal with the family, they donated it with 5,000 euros and he lied to them. And hence I, the man who took the oath before the Trinity, and lied, I call, the holy goddess of the left hand. He's about the first politician to enter the church out of kindness. I don't count those members of the Ustasha movement that went in and robbed the church treasure, burned 500 churches during World War II. This is among the politicians who cultivate the traditional spiritual and religious values of Bosko Ljotic's left hand burned, or burned, I don't mean physically, set the monastery on fire, set the priests on fire for 5,000 euros, following that tragic fire that took place in Hilandara. Instead of adding something to help, he decided to help himself, and in such a way he would remain remembered. Also, you should look back a little on Montenegro. That Milo Djukanovic is reckless, it is certainly known that Montenegro separated from Serbia in 2006, at a time when Serbia-Montenegro was run by Sveto Marovic, right? Montenegro was run by Milo Djukanovic and he managed Serbia, the president of Serbia was Boris Tadic, originally of Montenegro. So, Montenegro is dividing Earthly from Serbia at the moment that they manage both Montenegro and the common state and Serbia, so they use this kind of advantage, to separate themselves after the separation, of course, the reaction of Vuk Jeremic was, as it was -- another 20 nights from St Stefan, you give to me, and introduce yourself to this adviser or foreign minister born as a man who along with him... Serbia's mother. And today, Vuk Jeremic wants the trust of Serbs, wants faith in his political option, regardless of how fiercely he addressed the state where he was foreign minister, where he said that he and Rocenj j... Not to speak any further, it's very vulgar, mother to the Serbs. In such a way, they territorially separated and Serbia became independent. Milo Djukanovic is not a stupid man, he realized that he would get rid of Serbia's identity in Montenegro, since Montenegro is a Serbian state for me, as well as for many citizens of Montenegro, he decided to attack the saints and those of Montenegro's citizens, the sacred ones in that territory, realizing that the Serbian church is one of the main carriers of Serbia's national identity, he decided to get rid of Serbs. And how to get rid of Serbs? He's got to hit the church first, and that's why the whole movement started -- we don't give the holy ones. Milo Djukanovic thought when he left the Serbian Orthodox Church without property, that in that case it would be easier to disappear Serbs in Montenegro, which was a Ustasha policy, which was the policy of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, which they had drawn up in Dresden in 1928, where after that recipe after the war as winners, which I was not glad that it happened, that as winners realised their programme and a great state created by the blood of the Serb people had been paved in six national states, where they gave each of these people the territory that they had inhabited, plus territory, large territories inhabited by the Serb people. Of course, after the transition of one NDH to another NDH, it was the SR Croatia, when it happened, then Tudjman tried to implement the third-third of Ante Pavelic's programme and displaced, somewhat, the Serbs of the 1990s, so he realised the contribution to fully implementing Pavelic's policy -- one-third of the killings, one-third of the baptism, hence the attacks on the SPC in Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic have a copy of the Ustasha policy, where thanks to communist Ustasha politics, a certain part of the Serbs was in those republics that the communists designed. Of course, all those who won independence decided to resolve the Serbian national issue and only Serbia maintained almost identical ethnic composition, regardless of the inflow of hundreds of thousands of refugees, almost kept the 1991 ethnic composition. All other former Yugoslav republics, the lucky winners of communism, creating their national states are determined to get rid of Serbs, and the most attacks were on the SPC and Milo Djukanovic decided that after the earthly deleveraging and spiritual Serbs in Montenegro have been separated from the Serbs. Therefore, the importance of the SPC is very high. We who live in Srem know of both the German and the Brankovic monasterys, that some national history is a great sin against Brankovics because they were not traitors and after the fall of Smederov, they further sickened Srem and Fruska Gora, and thus contributed to the fact that there are so many citizens of Serbian nationality in Vojvodina today that it will never be questioned again no matter how much Nenad Chačka did not like it. Imagine the next thing - that we are registering somewhere in the Serbian Roman Catholic Church in the police. We solve, come on now, we like, say, a Catholic church or whatever, and we get the police to start a church. We find three, four citizens, we find some crucible, God forbid, and we register and say it -- that's the church, and we in Serbia don't recognize the Roman Catholic Church, and imagine that they still want to hold the mass, and we gather some bastards, scum, and someone comes on the side to support us -- like fighting Fascism. Imagine Nenad Chanka who believes that the fight against the patriarch and the Metropolitans who carry the Holy Scriptures, the Gospels, etc. and who want to hold a church ritual in their church on their property and he's like fighting Fascism, fighting against the bishop, the Metropolitans and fighting the patriarchs that they can't do the service because he thinks he's serving Fascism. I'm thinking the other way around. I think that fascism is what he's been doing, that it's spreading religious impatience and that his political organisation, if that's the attitude and the political party he's president of, should be brought under suspicion and see if that's a condition for the prosecutor to initiate proceedings against that party since it's obviously spreading religious hatred and impatience. Imagine now that we come and the Catholic priests come to keep the service and say, no, you're illegal, you can't do the service there, you can't, say, do it in India, you have to do it somewhere in Smederevo, you have enough Catholic churches. Imagine what it would look like, and that's why I'm amazed at all these Europeans, all the honours of the EU, the European community, that they didn't condemn such a difficult obstruction of the religious rights of members of the SPC because today, tomorrow, God forbid, I don't advocate it, and I wouldn't advocate it, no matter what happens to a church whose religion I am, imagine tomorrow someone does it to Protestant, Roman Catholic and other churches, I think that Europe would condemn it, even if we were doing it to these sects, that even in that case the Serbs would be guilty. People who believe should appreciate it, everyone's worship should be appreciated. He should not kill anyone because he otherwise trusts his God and does not need to be punished. None of this should be done, and I am surprised at all those who find understanding of the behaviour of Milo Djukanovic, Vuk Draskovic and Nenada Canka towards our SPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9399	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Anna Belloica's.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9400	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, did not live unless you did something great for your people and your country without asking for anything in return. The legal solution that we are discussing today in this high house is in support of that. The Holy Mountain, though territorially represented in the territory of the Republic of Greece, is characteristic of the fact that part of Serbia's territory is also located in its territory, and this is certainly the Hilandar monastery. The Hilandar monastery has been a cultural and spiritual centre of the Serbian people for more than nine centuries, and therefore it is of paramount importance for our people, our citizens and our country. The law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the holy monastery Hilandar regulates the way of helping and supporting the Hilandar monastery, which, along with the entire heritage of the Holy Mountain, is placed on the list of world cultural and natural heritage under the protection of UNESCO. The aim of this law is to provide continued and constant support to the Hilandar Council, which is otherwise based on the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, or on the budgets of all citizens of our country. As is widely known, the Hilandar monastery in 2004, a terrible fire took place, and nearly the entire cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery was destroyed in that fire. To this day, 90% of this monastery has been reconstructed and more than 16m euros have been spent for these purposes. The funds were donated by the government of the Republic of Serbia, by the faithful people, as well as by the SPC. This is exactly how much the state of Serbia actually takes care of culture, tradition and the entire cultural and historical heritage of our people. In addition, the fact that we have invested much more than decades and decades ago in the area of culture in the last six years. It is no wonder, if you have in mind that only a decade ago, the Republic of Serbia was completely destroyed, a completely destroyed country, which could not take care of the basic needs of our citizens and let alone investment in culture. Thanks to the good positioning throughout the world, thanks to the fact that we have managed to extract all the positive effects of this pandemic war, we have succeeded, not only in economic prosperity and provide a better standard of living for our citizens, but we have managed to provide budgets for all spheres of social life. In the very centre of Belgrade, you had the Sava Square, a square that is characterized as the ugliest part of the city. Today we have built in this very place a magnificent monument, a monument to the progeny of the Serbian medieval dynasty, the progeny of the Serbian medieval modern state, a monument to the great Stefan Nemanja, who today, I feel free to express myself, has become a new symbol of Serbia. While many fantasize about that monument, as well as everything we've been building ruins for years, even though they know they don't have citizens' support for it, we've continued to build. We built a monument to Milutin Milankovic, a monument to Borislav Pekic and a reminder to the citizens that we were able to finish the temple of St. Sava after a whole century. We continue to invest in the area of culture. When we talk about culture, I can't help but say that I don't look back on the greatest achievement in Serbian cinema, in Serbian film, and that's definitely the movie "The Dar from Jasenovac". The whole of Serbia was crying over the loss of the Serbian people, crying over the suffering and tears of Serbian children, whom we, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have kept quiet for 75 years. So for 75 years, it took our country, the Republic of Serbia, to talk about the genocide that was carried out over the Serbian people during World War II, because we didn't have the courage to talk about it in the international community. Predrag Gaga Antonijevic explained it well in just one sentence: "One could not, the other could not, and Aleksandar Vukic was both bold and able." Today these so-called quasi fighters for justice, quasi fighters for freedom share a lesson on morality, share a lesson on who has betrayed Serbian interests in KIM. Well, gentlemen, I'll remind you that the Serb people have not suffered from collective amnesia. I will also remind you that the Serbian people remember well who set the borders on Jarinj and Brnjak in 2011. The Serbian people remember who asked a famous question in the International Court of Justice, who asked how much the citizens of KIM cost us. We haven't forgotten that you sent a gendarme to those same Serbian young men who defended the same border in Jarinj. Dear gentlemen, where were you when our houses were burned down? Where were you when our graves were destroyed, when our churches burned down, when our monasteries burned down? Where were you, gentlemen, when they introduced us? Where are you today when the Serbian people face difficulties at KIM? How many times have you visited this same people at KIM, to see how this people live and share the fate of that same people? Today I have every right to talk about it myself on behalf of all those young people whose war at KIM destroyed childhood, on behalf of all those young people who dreamed of seeing their fathers again, seeing again their brothers who fought for Serbian freedom, for the Serbian holy country, for our Serbia, for our country, because we have no better and better country than our Serbia. I, thank God, have welcomed my father and uncle and uncle to live and return to their homes healthy, return to their homes, but in the name of all those who are not, in the name of all those young men and girls who have not even waited to meet their fathers, we will not allow you to reach cheap political points in the sense of Serbian suffering. The people despised false moralists, despised quasi fighters for freedom and those who issued Serbian national interests to teach us today about justice and morality. We today, even in these difficult times when our people at KIM face a ban on basic human rights, a ban on freedom of movement, under the leadership of Alexander Vukic we continue to fight for peace, to fight for stability, because we are sick of wars, we are tired of tears, we are sick of suffering from the Serbian people. But we will not allow more and more Serbian victims to be forgotten, not for that very reason, not to encourage hatred, quite the opposite, but to show that Serbian tears are no longer insignificant and to show the whole world, and also to our people, what it is that we must never leave our children in a mannet again. In 2014, we appeared in front of our citizens with a single foreign exchange, which is: "The future in which we believe". It seems to me that today, you will agree with me, this same future and we live, but we continue to fight and dream of great works, big projects that will bring us improvement and prosperity. We have the strength to change Serbia when little anyone believes it, but we continue to fight for a better, better and safer future, because our children at least deserve it. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9401	Thank you. The next is the People's MP, Free Allave. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9402	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today's proposal for a law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. Since the beginning of her term, this assembly has passed a large number of laws, but I would say that this bill is one of the most important, and I will explain why. Since the Serbian state, the Serbian Orthodox Church has always been with its people and has always shared the torment of Serb victims. Since the terrible deaths of the Serb people in Kosovo in 1389, through the Great Village of Serbs led by Arsenija III Charnojevic, through the great loss of the Serbian people by the Ustasha hand in Jadovna, Prebilovci, Jasenovac and other camps, until the death of the last wars of the 1990s, such as the action of the "Storm", which I myself witnessed, and the torments that struck our people in Kosovo and Metohija, the SPC and its clergy at the head of the patriarch, were with their people and shared with them the torment and prayed to God for the salvation of all Serb martyrs of Christians, who were killed by the criminal hand. The centre of the Serbian Orthodox Church is and will be in the St. Hilandar monastery, which is founded by Rasko Nemmanic, our Holy Sava and his father Stefan Nemanja, the Serbian state's parent. The monastery was founded in 1198 and is located on the holy mountain and is considered one of the largest Serb shrines. It is clear why this bill is so important, not only for the Holy monastery Hilandar, but also for the Serbian Orthodox Church and for the Serbian Orthodox people around the world. I will certainly vote in favour of this bill without a dilemma in the voting day, and I am sure that my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Minister Popovic, I know you and President Vukic visited the Hilandar monastery and the Holy Mountain this year on the eve of Christmas. I must admit, that news made me very happy. I know how much you and President Aleksandar Vucic are doing to improve the status of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and we also know that thanks to the extremely good relations with the Russian Federation, and above all to the excellent relations between the president of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin and Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, we have managed to reduce the works at the end at the Holy Sava temple in Belgrade. No authority has ever again done so in restoring Serbian sanctity from this government, which is commendable for all of it. We know how authorities have treated the Serbian Orthodox Church since the age of 40. In the end, I would say, I live Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9403	Thank you. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9404	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as my colleagues and colleagues today said a lot of nice things, let me point out a few things more from the historical point of view. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, history will record for sure that a Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the St Hilandar monastery was passed during Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, 22 September, in 2021. History will certainly record that the largest restoration of the 14th century Hilandar monastery occurred during Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic's spiritual, cultural and economic reformer in the 21st century. History will certainly record that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic visited the Hilandar monastery for Christmas, when he promised Iguman Methodia and the brother of the monastery, that Serbia would pay the necessary funds for the reconstruction of Hilandar, and that happened. History will certainly record respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the first time in the name of the Hilandar monastery, the word holy in the law, and from tomorrow on the bill will be voted by the holy monastery Hilandar. A few more sentences, since there's little time to say. The Hilandar monastery belongs to Serbian medieval art. Dear People's MPs, within the framework of Serbian medieval art, there are three styles of raška style from 1700 to 1294, that is so-called. The golden age of Serbian painting or the monumental style of the 13th century. The second, Serbian Byzantine style, the end of the 13th to the last decade of the 14th century and the third sea style from 1371 to 1459. The Hilandar monastery now belongs to a narrow style. I'll list the monasteries of the second style, then go back a few sentences to Hilandar. Which ones still belong to the narrow style? George's pillars, it's the end of the era, and Dragutin's church is St. Achilles ended in 1296 in the karst style. That's the style. The Raška style includes the Studenica monastery, the Zic monastery, the Milleseva monastery, the title of King Vladislav. As you know, in an escort that King Vladislav built in 1235, the castles of St. Save and them were transferred to Vračar in 1594, today the Temple of St. Save, the most beautiful temple in the world, and it ended during Serbian President Alexander Vukic. And as you know, in the monastery church in Milešev in 1377, the company First Kotromanić, nephew of Emperor Dusan, was crowned for the king of Serbs and seas. Next, the Moracha monastery, the church of St. The apostles in Peca, the monastery of Sopocans, the monastery of Gradac, the monastery of Arile, and as we said at the beginning of Hilandar. Let me say a few more sentences. As my colleagues and colleagues today all said, Stefan Nemanja, along with his son Sava in 1198, restored the old Greek monastery Hilandar to St. Burn, Athosu. Dear ladies and gentlemen, some of you have said this today, the fire swallowed up the north half of the monastery in 2004. Then six out of nine icons were burned. It was a huge fire, more devastating than the fire of Notre Dame in Paris. Only thanks to God no one got hurt. It didn't hurt the treasure, it didn't hurt the church. Since the 14th century, as I said, there has been no such great restoration in the Hilandar monastery. The Republic of Serbia has paid the entire funding for Hilandar. Someone mentioned, and I'm underlining, for Christmas, President Alexander Vukic visited Hilandar. The president has promised the argumentable Methodius and the brothers the monastery that Serbia will pay all necessary funds for reconstruction and that has happened. Hilandara's support is to support the preservation of our history and the memory of the centuries-old tradition of our history and the church, it's to support our future, building it, as a modern, successful democratic country. One more time to do four things and I'm done with it. History will record for sure that the law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery, during Alexander Vukic, was passed on 22 September 2021. That the largest restoration of Hilandar has occurred since the 14th century during the president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, a spiritual, cultural and economic reformer, Serbia of the 21st century. Further, history will record that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic visited the Hilandar monastery for Christmas, when he promised Iguman Methodia and the brother of the monastery, that he would pay Serbia all necessary funds for the restoration of the monastery and that was achieved. And for the first time in the name of the Hilandar monastery, the word "holy" is introduced in the law, and from tomorrow, the "holy" monastery Hilandar will stand in the law. Finally, thank you and full support to the President of the Republic for the implementation of the peace policy, the security policy of our citizens, the health policy of all our citizens in the Republic of Serbia and the environment, economic stability policy, the policy of modernising the Republic of Serbia, the policy of cultural and spiritual restoration of the Serbian people and the policy of finding a compromise, sustainable and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province. On that behalf, lived Serbia, lived our president.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-22-0.u9405	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. With this presentation, we end today's work, and the session continues tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thanks again.
