ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-1.u10081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 143 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a decision in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Issues has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee on Ethics, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – none of the abstentioned – did not vote – one of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single inquiry into the proposal for a decision on the education of the Ethics Commission. Does Mr. Martinovic want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, October 27th, 2021, starting at 11:45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the education of the Ethics Commission. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the Ethics Commission, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – none of the abstentions – there are, of the 146 MPs. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. I remind you that point 3 is 3. The draft decision provides for this decision to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the education of the Ethics Commission, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have been adopted by the draft decision. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single item of the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
