ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9523	Thank you, Honorable National Assembly President, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, before you today have another important law of importance for the environment and for the health of citizens The proposal for a law on protection against noise in the environment. The aim of the new law is to fully align this area with Directive 2002/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of noise management in the environment. The transposition of the Directive is planned through the adoption of a proposal for a law on protection against noise in the environment and amendments to sublegal acts. Full compliance will be achieved through the adoption of a regulation which will transpose or appeal to Directive 2015/996 on the establishment of common noise assessment methods, which puts out of force and amends the two Directives 2002/49 EC. The draft law transposed the provisions of the Directive, more precisely defining what noise is in the environment. A list of sources of noise has been expanded, as has the competent authorities for making strategic maps of noise and action plans. Also, the proposal for this law regulates noise protection entities, measures and conditions of protection, access to noise information, surveillance and other issues of importance for environmental protection and human health. The bill contains nine chapters and is closer to the regulation of establishing, maintaining, improving the unique noise protection system in the environment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, establishing and achieving measures in the area of noise protection, to prevent or reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health and the environment, establishing the limit values of noise in the environment towards the acoustic zone, the type of objects and/or sensitivity of the population, as well as the type of source of noise, then, establishing the degree of exposure of noise in the environment through the production of noise cards in the environment, based on unique noise indicators and prescribed noise assessment methods in the environment, adopting action plans based on noise map data in order to prevent and reduce noise exposure, providing access to public information on noise and noise and noise. Due to compliance with the obligations laid down in the Directive, competences for the production of strategic noise maps in the environment and action plans have been changed as well as deadlines for their production. The bill sets out obligations for legal persons who are managers, owners or concessionaries of the main railways, main roads, main airports, as well as units of local self-government which represent agglomerations to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans for noise protection in the environment. Strategic noise maps are the basis for making action plans and also a means to inform the public and noise levels in the environment and its adverse effects. In line with the bill's proposal, the strategic maps of noise, agglomeration, main roads, the main railways and the main airports will be drawn up by 30 June 2024 at the latest and revised by 30 June 2027 at the latest, in order to comply with the deadlines in the EU countries and to allow the data to be compared. Action plans to protect from noise in the environment will be carried out no later than one year from the adoption of strategic noise maps. One reason for adopting a new law is to regulate the problem of increased noise from catering facilities, which has a harmful effect on human health and the environment. The proposed law on noise protection in the environment, in addition to authorised legal entities, also gives authority to municipal militants that they can control noise from catering facilities, elastoned noise measurement devices, and in accordance with the decision of the authorities of local self-government units. The first noise measurement obligation is also introduced, which means that the legal person who owns or uses the noise source is obliged to provide the first noise measurement at the site, obtain a report on the measurement of the noise of an authorised professional organisation, bear the costs of those measurements and, where appropriate, implement sound protection measures. Given the matter it regulates, the solutions proposed by this bill will affect the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, as taking appropriate safeguards will prevent further exposure to adverse noise effects where exposure levels can endanger the environment or human health. To that end, it is necessary to establish a uniform, functional system of monitoring and control of noise levels and maintenance of databases within a single information system, to carry out appropriate measurements of noise levels, to create strategic noise maps and action plans. The noise protection entities are obliged to provide public access to information and data from the strategic maps of noise on the environment and action plans which form part of the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia and as such are available on the Environment Protection Agency website. The part of the draft law relating to criminal provisions provides for sanctions for infringements for legal persons, as well as for responsible persons in the authority of the state administration, the public authority, or authorised legal person, for breach of the provisions of this law. The amount of sanctions is in line with the provisions of the Violation Act. In addition to fines imposed for a violation of a legal person, a safeguard measure may be imposed on the confiscation of cases which have been used or intended to carry out the offence, i.e. resulting from the conduct of the offence. Dear People's MPs, I'm sure we'll have a constructive debate and I hope that in the voting day you will support this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9524	Thank you. The Board's reporters have a word. Gojko Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9525	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, discussed at a session held on October 4th the proposal for a law on environmental noise protection submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in principle. The bill was presented by Assistant Minister Aleksandra Imširagić Đuric at the Committee session, who presented this proposal by member in a very comprehensive and detailed way. The bill is essentially another indicator that environmental protection is one of the key priorities in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Given that the first Law on environmental noise protection was first adopted in 2009, not long after the first amendments and additions to this law were adopted in 2010, we will all agree that this law was in some way regulated by this area, however, it proposed some solutions that were in line with the set of laws in the field of environmental protection but, unfortunately, that compliance with the EU Directive was only 44%, which is indeed low compliance, a low percentage of compliance. The main objective of the new draft legislation on noise protection in the environment is to fully bring the new draft law into line with the 2002 EU Directive, where, among other things, we will change the competent authorities responsible for the adoption of action cards, i.e. strategic maps of the noise of action plans, and, of course, with clearly defined and precisely defined deadlines. The example works, according to the current law, if a citizen reported noise in a catering facility, an inspection would normally take place on the ground. The inspection, in order to determine the level of noise, would have to invite a company dealing with noise measurement, of course, with the time previously agreed and the place of exit of the company on the spot. The new bill provides for a really good solution for me when it comes to noise from catering facilities, which is that every municipal militant will be authorized to react on the spot because they will have this device to measure noise levels, so-called. phonometer and will be able, as I said, to respond to the site first by warning the person or the owner of the catering facility to adapt the noise level to legally prescribed borders, and if the owner does not do so, the municipal militant is also authorised to temporarily confiscate funds that emit music, but also to ban the operation of the catering facility. This bill also calls on the owners of catering facilities to invest money in sound protection measures, in order to ensure, firstly, and to provide themselves with unlimited work, and on the other hand, not to interfere with their neighbours. In line with the above, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on noise protection in the environment, and I also call on all MPs to support this bill in the voting day, as this is the only way in which we will significantly improve the situation in the area of noise protection, as well as in general looking at the area of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9526	Thank you. We are now going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9527	The Honorable President of the National Assembly with an associate, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, is before us a law that regulates at first sight one of the important moments in our lives, or normatively establishes a framework of protection against excessive publicity in our environment, which is very important in this simple dimension. However, according to my perception and deep conviction, this law is much more than a protection from banal, exaggerated sounds in our environment and it falls within the order of those laws that, in addition to this legal and legal understanding that is here today, requires or deserves, requires the need to be understood and culturally. Of course the law should be supported, because it definitely regulates an important segment of our lives in an individual, family and collective sense. What the EU requires of us is that I understand as a reminder, and our need is more than that, our real need is that we arrange our lives here in the most qualitative way, and we accept that reminder, but not as an imposition, but as something that is our cultural and civilizational obligation. According to his entire historical experience, man can conclude that his only natural and normal habitat is peace. A man living in an ambience of peace, then his body, his mind, but also his soul, only then, feel completely normal, can function normally and that's what a natural ambience is for all three elements of the human structure. Therefore, any factor that threatens man’s peace must have a response from man in an individual and collective sense, and it is necessary to take action to protect against any form of threat to peace. What we are doing today with this law is raising our response, or our package of measures aimed at protecting against harassment, or aimed at protecting the peace of every individual, family and community. The noise, the noise or any form of excessive sound that threatens our peace is actually the object of this law today. Before I deal with the very structure of the law and point to both its values and certain points of attention, I would also like to point to this cultural dimension of the importance of this law or the very importance of this topic. So, in addition to trying to legally and legally restrict the possibility of jeopardizing our peace with excessive sounds, or noise, we should bear in mind and draw attention to the fact that the issue of our relationship to noise and this kind of threat to our peace cannot be eliminated solely by law. We need to know that and we need to focus on this through the educational dimension, especially in terms of our personal behavior, and then in terms of raising our children, because you were probably all at risk of being threatened by peace with excessive noise, too loud music, various other forms of noise. That's what this law recognizes today. But have you thought, have we thought or are we thinking about how much we actually agree to noise and how much we introduce into our system of life and the way life and culture of life, in fact certain moments of noise or certain ways of noise that not only threaten our peace, but which in some way our mental system, our psycho-system deform and get used to certain moments of noise? So, I don't know which one of us managed to keep from, if he's in the car longer to catch himself that his silence bothers him and then includes a radio or some other kind of music to fill his void. Or, very few houses today, very few homes today that can bear silence. It's a very important question, a life issue. It's actually an indication that we've already committed a certain aggression on our souls and our therefore innocent mental system unless our mental and mental system tolerates silence. So this is something to draw attention to. Be assured that if you find this phenomenon with yourself and yourself to say so, catch that you have a problem with silence, you're already in crisis, you're already in trouble. Try to reset. Try, I won't go too far if I don't say, let's try to heal, because the normal state of nature is peace, and silence is actually the deepest form of peace and calm. One who doesn't know how to live in silence, one who doesn't know how to communicate with silence, because silence is really an ambience in which to communicate with one another, because one who doesn't have communication with himself is hard to provide or be able to make good communication with another. He who does not have the ability to communicate with himself, to talk with himself, to dialogue with himself, actually replaces that silence, or fills it with certain noise, mostly through various forms of music, and thus actually prevents himself from communicating with himself, from thinking about himself, from subsisting in himself, his soul, his depth. The man is deeper than the ocean. A man's soul is deeper and richer than any ocean, and if a man manages to recognize those depths and seek happiness in sublime through those depths, he actually enters the field of unlimited possibilities of research of happiness. This is the only unsustainable source of happiness, therefore, of man’s insides in the spiritual dimension, that is, of man’s soul, which requires silence. So it is very important to offer this idea, this concept, first of all to the families, to try to "heal" themselves and their children, to make them have a few hours off TV. You'll see how strange and difficult it is at first, and how wonderful it is when you learn to have silence. Why do we have alienation in our family today? Among other things, we have an excessively present noise that we think is sophisticated and cultured. She was in the middle of a TV until recently. Today it's through cell phones, various games through phones, communication through social networks. Today it is also the most common way to use earphones that are completely excluded from the environment, including the family environment. So, I was talking to friends last night, drinking coffee at a catering facility, and close by, the man was sitting alone. He has turned our attention several times, so by making sounds that were sudden. Each time he surprised us because we forgot that he had some headphones on his head, or on his ears, and that he had some kind of sacred communication. You see a man sitting alone, you don't expect him to talk to anyone. For a very long time it took two or three times, to the soul of a high tone, its reaction to what it hears or communicates with, in fact it indicates one abnormality in communication both in the end and in the sounds produced. So this topic, in addition to its legal-civilization, next to its ecological dimension, that is, the dimension of environmental protection, this is a very important topic. Today, of course, this is not a time when it can be seen from the position of importance in the cultural, spiritual and general sense of life, in terms of life culture, but certainly it is an opportunity to point to that dimension of the importance of this topic. Then we wonder why our children who grow up in the organized, sophisticated noise that we leave them through these forms of supposed filling gaps and there's music above all, I don't want to crash into music as an artistic dimension, but what is today is one of the deviations of modern society that the pattern of life culture is disrupted so that what used to be an exception becomes a rule. So music as an artistic creation has a place in people's lives in almost all traditions and cultures. It was accepted and respected, but it represents, through human history it was mostly an exception. The presence of music was an element of entertainment because in a man's culture of life there is a very present culture of entertainment, but entertainment culture is not a rule of life. Entertainment culture is an exception in life that is normal, legal and legitimate with various causes. So, the man's having fun with the occasion, married, married, was born, etc. There has been some success, something to mark, celebrate, and it is a cause of joy, because when a man is in joy, joy can only be expressed with other people. You can't look forward to four walls alone, because if someone's looking forward to four walls alone, it means they've already had some kind of mental disorder. These are normal phenomena of joy shared with family, friends at a wider or narrow range. What's the problem today, modern civilization in this regard? The problem is that this exception to life, called the occasion party, has become the only opiate for trying to find happiness, because the devastated souls do not find happiness within themselves, in that ponturing, and then it is understood that if you celebrate, you are happy. Well, since you don't have every day reason to celebrate, then we have a culture of fun, which is simply counting on that weakness of a man, the need for a man to be happy, forced on the other hand quite commercially, and you today simply can't imagine with most people that life is flowing without playing them. You get in the car, it plays, you get into the catering facility, and there's something playing for you. Wherever you go in, there's something playing for you, and eventually it's probably blowing through. So it's something that's one cultural aggression that has more or less noise, but it's definitely a problem for which today's modern civilization doesn't have an answer, but it's one of those deviations in culture, which is accepted by default, because that's how everyone works, and then how much of it you try to make an exception or an exception, then you become a freak because everyone else accepts it, dear God. So that's something that would definitely be educational, educationally we all have to approach individually, first of all, with regard to ourselves, to children, of course most important to children, and it would be very good if we had the capacity and in our school programs to reduce this approach a little bit, not to accept by initiative everything offered on the market of esthera, on the market of the music industry that has its own interest and has the need to impose this cultural form of entertainment every moment that is not natural, because man is not meant to entertain himself all his life. Man is a responsible being, the only being chosen by the Supreme Creator, has given him reason. By gaining reason, he gained the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the power of reason, the So, on the basis of reason and reason, man’s ability to resonate has given him freedom, that is, his ability to responsibility and then his freedom. So whoever has no mind, or reason, who cannot reason, who has no capacity to be responsible, does not have the right to freedom, and these are the basic features of a man as the only vertical being who has this right and these possibilities, and as such a being is on the ground with the role of responsibility, the role of protection of value, and not the role of entertainment. Of course, if we were to move to the educational and cultural level on this subject, then much less space would be left to legally, legally, legally, and legally limit certain sources of noise. In any case, as is the role of all laws, not to cultivate, not to raise the entire nation, all citizens and all people, it is understood that cultivating cultures is achieved by education, education and education, and that for one minority who does not want to be cultured by education and education or has missed it for some reason is the law that should sanction such behaviour. In this regard, of course, this law will have very important effects. True, he's a good frame, he's well placed in principle. I believe that even a lawyer who regulates the details of what noise is about sound height, or decibel, will comply with this law, I suppose that's something that's meant to be. It is noticeable that we have defined what the election of noise is, as we have in the law defined and what is not the sources of noise, what is excluded from noise. What I want to draw attention to is perhaps only the possibility at some point of law abuse because in the numbered sources of noise, not in the exceptional sources of noise with full fences, because we do not get it wrong, but at some point I would not like to find an object in front of a court to ask a question about the height of decibels that come from mosques, or churches, church bells and ezans. This has happened in some other countries. This law has quite closed it down, whether or not these elections of sound should be listed in exception, although in some way I explicitly understand the promoter that he might have avoided any implication that the sound that comes from churches and mosques can at all be treated as noise, but I am simply speaking with that apparition or consciousness that anything that can be used can be misused. So what I'm suggesting in the rulebook, and I'm going to end up, to more precisely define the frameworks of space around religious objects and schools, to strengthen that strictness in terms of the number of decibels. That would be very important. I have personally been able to see for myself and receive complaints of this kind, where near religious facilities, i.e. the school of a particular discotheque, and I don't know what other sources of noise, or catering facilities, we would, and I believe that by regulation, be able to strengthen the strictness of the condition of sound heights that can cause noise and endanger. With all this in mind, this law certainly deserves support and will be obtained by the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9528	I thank the esteemed Vice President Zukorlic. The next is Honourable MP Vojislav Vujic, representative of the JS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9529	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Vujovic with his associates, the JS Parliamentary Group will certainly support this law and I personally look forward to seeing you in this room with a new bill of law because your laws, laws in the field of environmental science, affect the quality of life of all of us. Each of the present colleagues comes from different municipalities, from different cities. Each of us represents a large number of citizens and what is most interesting are the experiences of the noise we have different. Every city or every municipality has its own specificities. What we all have is the same term of noise because it's understood that noise is every unwanted sound. More specifically, the law says that the noise in the environment is any unwanted or harmful sound broadcast in an open or closed space. I come from Vrnjaka Banja, from a tourist resort and surely the noise that is created in my place is at least a little different from the other municipalities and cities. Why do I say that? We are a specific tourist resort which by nature things must also have certain events during the tourist season, because these events are also one of the reasons why many tourists visit not only Vrnjačka Banja as a tourist resort, but also all other municipalities and cities dealing with tourism. During the year one of the larger events, I refer to it as a positive example here, is also Lovefest. As someone might boast about Gucci or Egzita or all the other great events, we can boast about Lavfest and then be constantly driven into town by the controversy whether it's a good thing that three days we have increased noise, as some say, these younger ones say we have increased music, but the fact is that these three days Vranjka Banja visits more than 60,000 tourists. What's the specificity of that manifestation is that it's mostly foreigners. When we draw the line, we talk about the noise in Vranjska Banja, somehow it always comes down to that commercial part of which the largest number of people benefit from. So there are certain noises, how they are defined by the law that we have to find a way and how to accept them. Of course, that's a broad term. When we talk about the phenomenon of noise, we can focus on traffic, on highways. There was a time when highways were built and different roads were not much to worry about. Then, probably, traffic wasn't as big as today. Today, when building up, and thank God in Serbia, a lot of traffic and lots of highways are being built, noises are being taken care of. We can see a large number of protective fences that are being set up precisely because of the settlements that the cars are going through. They're also doing more modern industrial areas. This law also treats a large number of legal entities, in particular the economy, when it comes to noise, but if you have respected all the standards and if you are in industrial areas such as more and more in cities, I, as an example, often cite Jagodina because it has created a new industrial zone and all the factories that are located there certainly do not endanger anyone when it comes to noise. What we'll all agree on, which may well be here, as the most common concept of noise and mention, is the noise from the catering facilities. Of course, a colleague earlier, the president of the Ecology Committee said that now it is much easier because in this law there are both municipal police officers or municipalities where they are not present, meaning municipal inspectors, they will have devices with which they will be able to define the level of noise on the spot and at the same time the law requires them to react. These phonometers have so far had authorised legal entities that were not easily addressed at all times, especially at the time when a music program was performed, to come. I said at first what the definition of noise was, but we're not all the same. It's a normal thing, we're all different and the citizens of us MPs come with different demands. They used to be ministers' proposals, some times they're demands. And by the nature of the job and I had one meeting these days with a citizen who came and when we talked about the Law on the Protection of Noise saw that the law was in preparation and the man presented his personal problem. He came to me and asked what was going on with the love noise. I was beginning to be honest, I couldn't understand exactly what he meant, but when he told me it was the tenants of the building where he was, even there was a memo, where he said -- the tenants of that and that, I'm now not going to name the building, or the address, to reduce that love noise, then I understood what he was talking about. When I took the law to read it, Article 2 is not a fight, neighbourly relations are at stake, but good ones, says Article 2. – the provisions of this law do not apply to noise, so says the attitude. 4. - of household activities or noise from a neighbouring household or apartment or other space used for those purposes. So I'm not in agreement with the amendment to deal with this kind of thing, I've suggested that they find some way in their own household order to solve it, and the citizen agrees. Now that we're talking about environmental problems at all, they're certainly extremely complex. It's not just noise, it's an ecological field and it covers a lot of things that are directly about the lives of all of us, but it's what I want to look back on today and take advantage of the opportunity, and that's the dumps. We have to make sure that all of us raise that citizens' awareness a little bit when it comes to, above all, wild dumps and again focus on those dumps that are in operation. I'm going to set a good example now, and that's the city of Jagodina and the town of Leskovac, so that we don't talk about Jagodina all the time, but the fact is that Jagodina can be used for a good example. I can also mention the town of Leskovac because, with the Austrian company "POR" many years ago, they managed to create serious regional dumps and I know the minister how much you spend your efforts and work to generally and this awareness among citizens, and the technical issues involved in the dump itself, we resolve. I'm calling on everyone to take advantage of, just maybe, these pre-named capacities of these two dumps, and as far as possible from the environment, we're just trying to dump all the waste into these two locations. Of course, where technical possibilities allow. Generally, when we talk about ecology, we need to be aware of the fact that ecology is primarily a synonym for good behavior, the ecosystem is a synonym for culture and a constant upgrade of awareness of environmental protection. Minister, I will now take the opportunity to thank your ministry and you personally for a serious environmental project concerning all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, focusing on Vrnjaka Banja. It's a project that you've approved and given great help to sniff out 60 acres of park surfaces. It's not a classic forest, it's a park area literally 365 days a year. By the nature of things, flora and fauna are variable, with this project that you have provided us with since October months moving towards realization. I urge all citizens of Serbia to come to Vrnjačka spa and see what we have done together next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9530	Thank you, colleague Vujic, for these clarifications above all. The word is made by MP Muamer Bačevac, representative of the SDPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9531	Dear Minister with guests, honourable MPs and MPs, of course, ahead of us whenever it comes to ecology, we from the SDPS are particularly interested in any solution that will improve the state of environmentalism in our country. We must conclude that noise, as you will see, will be a number of data in the EU, in the developed Western system is a serious problem. It has also received certain situations that pose a real threat to the health, mental and physical health of our inhabitants. Perhaps the best or the shortest definition that says that noise is every unwanted sound, every unwanted sound that a man expects, which does not suit a man and which can introduce him into a certain level of stress, that is to say, disrupt cognitive functions and lead to psychosomatic diseases, which modern science has proved very simple in the last fifty years, through numerous studies. In particular, noise has been one of the major causes of complex health damage in the last decades, especially in large densely populated cities. The fact of noise was once thought to be limited to a hearing organ, however, I repeat once again, with extensive, frequent and numerous studies, we will see that health damage is extremely complex and more extensive. Of course, noise is, and now in the hygiene taught by medical professions, it is listed as serious physical agents that are harmful to health, but it is interesting that throughout history different peoples recognized its harmful fact long ago. One of the first bad noise effects observed was in ancient China, where the Chinese are practically resourceful, and here is recorded 211 B.C.E. The noise used to punish people. There's a letter from Ming Tio, the chief of police who says - whoever insults the highest, won't be hanged, won't be decapitated, but the players of the flutes, the beetles and the larmacers will play immaculately for so long until he's dead. So, the old Chinese were very innovative at the time using noise to punish people. The ancient Romans also protected themselves from the harmful fact of noise created from blacksmith's workshops, Kazangs, etc. which was in craft shops that were located near buildings for life, determined working hours and predicted time for rest. That's exactly what we do today in one way. The first data on the harmful effects of noise were provided by the Swedish, Tobe and Fozbrouk, in 1826. They explained hearing damage in people who worked in blacksmith's workshops. That hearing damage was called blacksmith's deafness. Later, a number of other authors who worked in this field came forward. The effects of communal noise, today in the world, pay real attention to them, because so far research has shown that they primarily act on dream and psychological functions, they make it difficult to develop sleep, noise makes the dream surface, shortens the stage of deep sleep and leads to awakening, and this manifests a change in mood, feelings of tiredness, unsatisfaction, fall in working ability, headache, increased anxiety. What I stress and what the latest research shows is that exposure to noise leads to change and on other organic systems, especially the cardiovascular system, the heart rate is accelerated, the pulse is accelerated, the pulse rate is changing, and all of this leads to the practical changes that lead to and introduces the pathology of our health. According to current EU data, noise from the environment is estimated to cause about 48,000 annually, means about 50,000 new cases of ischaemic heart disease and about 12,000 premature deaths. In addition, 22 million people are estimated to be exposed to high levels of chronic interference. So 22 million people in the EU have chronic diseases, while 5.5 million people suffer from a high degree of chronic sleep disorder. It is estimated that 12.5,000 children of school age suffer from reading disturbances due to noise that mostly comes from airplanes. It has been shown that noise is one of the most significant factors of personality neurotisation and that numerous neurosiss, which are now among the world's leading diseases, are caused by noise or hastening, are unlocked, declared by noise. Again, neurosis today is one of the most common and basic diseases in the city. Of course there's that scale of how much decibel causes what. For example, from 40 to 50 decibels, we take that as an example. 40 decibels of some kind of limit, we say, is daily up to 40 decibels allowed, and overnight is 30 decibels. Because the human organism doesn't work the same way because of the vegetative system of damage to the agent during the day and evening. In the evening, of course, there is a slowdown in heart rhythm, a man prepares for sleep, enters a dream and practically prepares for rest. Then, at that moment, the noise is the most and the worst of its effects on human health. Of course, from 60 to 80 decibels, we have a vegetative system, 90 to 110 hearing loss, over 120 hearing and hearing aid damage, 150 mechanical damage to the professional apparatus, and more than 170 decibels are caused by death. So, they weren't wrong about those Chinese years ago when people were being punished with noise. Of course, it's interesting that any of us really tried to study, we studied, so we always went to reading rooms and looked for an environment where we would be highly concentrated. Interestingly, Shopenhower, as one of the great representatives of Frankfurt school and German philosophy, has also declared noise as the sworn enemy of every serious thinker. He says: “Nothing disturbs the thought like noise. “ Adding that even people who are not philosophers of ideas disappear from their minds due to severe earthquakes of sounds. I say again, it is estimated that in Europe about 100 million people suffer and have health damage caused by noise and that the EU recognises and tries to resolve its laws, and today we have before us the harmonisation of our Law on the prevention of noise with European standards, and that is the main reason why we are doing this and indeed one rigorous approach, one constant monitoring of noise and prevention levels, or preventing noise damage to people's health is something that we, by this law, practically, copying EU laws, want to do. Of course the noise is bad and affects even the fauna. I must point out, you know that we in our parliament have an informal group of MPs called the Green Parliament Group. There are about 30 MPs and something more in it, and they are particularly focused on environmental problems. We went to one of the Goldibor County last week, one of the Sandzaks. We went to the Senate, Preboy and Nova Varosh, and also Prepolje. We saw on the scene the wealth of nature and flora about the fauna of our country. I stress this by wanting to really commend your work. That's where I'm going to put the New Market. Practically, all the cities and all the municipalities I mentioned had, we talked to representatives, or mayors, to the presidents of the municipalities, I convey their words, and they say that ever since you joined the minister, or minister, that they have an extremely better communication, that they solve decades of problems. Practically an ecological bomb in Prijepolje has been resolved and is going into the final solution of the State's dump. Indeed, you show a special sensitivity for this area, i.e. since it is really, I can say, in the tourist sense of one attraction, that there are very many national parks, protected area of nature and that this is something that should trigger the development of these parts. Anyway, we were there and one of the problems that people have delegated is noise. They say here in the Zlatibor County in huge numbers, about half a million people live here and there's an environmental inspector. What's good is you know that noise can, especially the noise of boats and in hunting grounds, completely scares and disrupts certain species that live here and that are particularly cared for. So that's something to be taken care of. I am very glad that this law, this bill that we will certainly, hopefully, adopt, extend the powers of those who have so far been, which had an autonomous province, local self-government, to expand now and not only have environmental inspectors, well, one in half a million people is on such a big surface, to control whether this law is being implemented. Now we're gonna have a hell of a law. Will we be able to implement it in practice? It is this law that gives jurisdiction to both the municipal police and local inspectors that they can act in this field and act in a preventive manner, but also punish. So, without punishment and reward, there's no solution to any problems, no education. In that sense, I believe that this law is in any case one significant improvement and progress compared to the one we had in 2009. Of course the noise bothers the people who live in urban areas the most. We also had an example in Belgrade which is our center that citizens have reported and that they have highlighted really serious problems. Well, we have this famous case of residents of Cetina Street in Belgrade, which since 2006, by building dozens of cafes in their environment really had big problems, have been exposed to noises. The residents filed dozens of applications to the environmental inspection, the municipal police, and were forced to protect themselves in court. Because if we look at it a little bit, these people are even disturbed by the whole life. The noise that comes to upset them and when they're going to sleep, they have to adapt when they're going to rest, when they're going to talk, when they're going to learn. Practically, they've suffered damage that's irreparable. Of course, such things should be taken into account and one right measure should be found in line with the knowledge of human health conservation and the level of noise, time of work should be limited and found an adequate location for their work. I am pleased that this law is practically here in Belgrade, too, separated from abortions and certain facilities providing tourist services, which are being moved, which do not disturb people from these restrictions. Also recently, a group of citizens in Cacca filed a petition and filed a lawsuit even in Strasbourg over noise coming from the city beach, etc. Although the current law envisaged the adoption of a series of sublegal acts, this was not implemented until the end and other than the city of Nis, which today I would also like to commend, which has a regulated strategic map of noise and that 24 hours continuously throughout the year is measured by noise, I found information that no city in us has an action plan to reduce noise. Of course, this refers to that no city more than 100,000 inhabitants have a plan to solve in practice all the registered overruns of noise, etc. In this regard, I am pleased that this law will solve this problem and that we will practically greatly improve the lives of the people in the cores, that is, in the central parts of our major cities. Of course, for all this, I would say that in the European Union too, this is a serious problem, and because of all this, the EU has passed regulations against this form of pollution, as noise is also marked as pollution in the EU, prescribing measures to reduce this noise. How important the EU attaches itself, it can be seen from the fact that action programmes are being adopted continuously in many countries. Some EU documents specify measures such as the adoption of regulations and sublegislative acts, the development of a noise monitoring system by establishing strategic noise maps covering major traffic, cities, settlements, as well as the requirement for all members to bring their action plans to reduce noise. It is a positive attitude of our country to support the need to fight noise and to implement it through support and compliance with regulations with international organisations, such as the World Health Organisation and the EU in particular. Given the public's indication of the problem of noise in the city's zones, especially in the capital, at the initiative of the city of Belgrade, two members related to the competences for measuring noises broadcast by catering facilities have been included in the bill. Once again, what's new, the municipal police will have the authority to measure the noise on the spot and express appropriate measures, so that citizens will now be better protected from noise. I said inspection supervision will also continue to be carried out by the ministry and an autonomous province, but now the units of local self-government through environmental inspectors. One of the basic principles of the Social Democratic Party regarding environmental protection is that it must be improved over the next few years, that it must be a priority. I am very glad that the Serbian government has shown this by budget and budget rebalance, where we have over 12 billion certain budgets, so we added four more billion with the rebalance, and practically never really, as in this mandate, is taken into account and shows a sincere desire to solve the accumulated problems of our ecosystem. It is essential for citizens' health to remove the consequences of past pollution, and noise is environmental pollution according to EU standards. We therefore advocate that this area is fully regulated and citizens of noise protection, and we will indeed be happy to support this law and all those laws that our legal system is uniting and bringing closer to the EU legal system, because we believe that this is the most orderly system that exists today in the country's pattern, and the European Union is a place where it is particularly concerned about the interests of citizens. We want to be part of that system and we want our citizens' interests to be our first priority in our work. So once again, I announce support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9532	Thank you, Dr. Bačevac. The next is distinguished colleague Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9533	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, putting the proposal for a law on the protection of noise in the environment on the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session is a confirmation that the Government is committed to the adoption of so-called. a green package of the laws of Chapter 27, so that, with the adopted negotiating position for Chapter 15 and the laws on climate change, water, energy efficiency and rational use of energy by the end of the year, we will be ready to open the Fourth Cluster – the Green Agenda and infrastructure. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill because avoiding, preventing or reducing the adverse effects of noise in the environment in the first place protects the health of the population. Noise causes serious health and mental disorders and disability caused by hearing problems, which again carries higher costs of treatment, but also noise means that certain areas are less attractive to investment investments and tourism. We will vote in favour of this bill and because of farmers, because the noise resulting in certain land parcels being serviced. It is often heard that Serbia is lagging behind in applying European standards in the area of noise protection. The situation is a little different after all. In fact, 40 years ago, in 1981, the Republic of Serbia passed a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Noise, and the following year and a rule for its application. Certain preventive measures in the area of noise protection were also prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the Construction of Objects. On the other hand, the European Commission has opened the 1996 Green Paper as a serious environmental problem that threatens human health multiplely and represents one of the biggest environmental pollutants, and since that year, the last Wednesday is marked as the International Noise Protection Day. It is undeniable that in the last two decades European legislation has treated noise as one of the major environmental problems, and the list of regulations in the area of noise protection covers 13 acts of different legal forces. Of course, the most significant act is Directive 2002/49/EC on the assessment and management of noise in the environment, and full harmonisation with this and Directive 2015/996 which puts out of force and replaces Annex 2 of Directive 2002/49/EC and which introduces uniform methods of the budget of the noise level is one of the reasons for the adoption of a new law on noise protection. It is important that the bill harmonizes the definition of noise with Article 3. A directive that defines noise as unwanted and per environment is a harmful sound in the outer environment that has been created by human activities. In this way, the first plan puts a harmful fact on human health, and statistics on the harmful fact indicate that around 80 million Europeans live in areas where noise levels cross recommended values and around 4% have permanent hearing problems. In America, the number is about 3.5% of the total population. According to the European Environment Agency, 12,000 deaths in Europe can be attributed to noise every year, and the annual cost of noise pollution in Europe has been estimated at 52 billion US dollars. The question arises – how does noise pollute the environment? As it pollutes the substance, everything that causes negative effects in the environment is defined, which can be sound, heat, radiation. Noise is the third most common factor and environment to contribute to the disease of the population. The World Health Organization suggests that more than a million healthy years of life are lost annually in Western Europe alone due to the noise of road traffic. The SVM Group welcomes the harmonisation of the provisions of the draft law with the recommendations of the European Commission from the 2014 screenings, the need to make changes in the definition of the authorities responsible for drawing up strategic maps of noise and action plans and to align the deadlines for drawing up strategic maps with the deadlines set out in the Directive. The bill lays down the competences of local self-government units to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans. Strategic maps are the basis for informing the public about the state of noise levels and for drawing up action plans to reduce noise levels. But we must not forget that these are complex processes that require serious financial resources and personnel and that costs are one of the main obstacles to applying noise protection standards. The numbers are different. For example, according to the 2011 industrial pollution and noise approximation strategy, investment costs for achieving the objectives of Directive 2002/49 are 17.6m euros, while in the 2010 National Environment Protection Programme, costs for the noise sector are estimated at 18.6m euros. The post-screening document for Chapter 27 states that the preliminary estimate of costs based on unit prices, and according to the experience of Member States and experts from the European Commission can be carried out as follows – prices for the making of cards of noise range from 25 cents to one euro per capita. The total number of residents in five cities -- Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Subotica -- is about 2.5 million. Nis is the only city in Serbia for which a strategic noise map was made as part of the IPA project. It is certainly not a meaningless fact that there is a direction of noise in the environment at the Faculty of Protection of Labour and that there is an education of personnel for this area. It is important that personnel for this area are also educated at the University of Belgrade Mining and Geology Faculty, where there is a direction of noise in the environment. To what extent the person’s training and exchange of experience are important, the following example shows. During 2014, a measurement of the level of intensity and traffic structure, the impact of noise traffic and environmental pollution was made in the area from Croatia to the border with Romania. It's covered by a zone from the Deluge to the Devil. The measurements were made as part of the IPA project. Measurement of noise and air pollution at border crossings and accompanying infrastructures that have realised the Public Enterprise "Serbian Roads" and "Traffick for Traffic" from Budapest. Assessments of post-scanning documents suggest that for 944km, the main road network estimated a cost of 600,000 euros, while the price of making noise tickets to airports was estimated between 10 and 15,000 euros. The report of Chapter 27 in Serbia states that, for the period from March 2018 to February 2019, partial progress has been recorded in this area and that the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" has built strategic noise maps by 843km. It is certain that the experiences of working together with colleagues from Hungary have contributed to that success. Also, we believe that a good solution to the bill's proposal is that the holder of spatial and urban plans performs acoustic zoning, because the provisions of the applicable law, the units of local self-government, were competent to determine acoustic zones in the settlement as well as border values in those zones. This was not done in most local self-government because it was not established, a united centralised noise monitoring system, so each unit of local self-government determined the number of measurement sites and the dynamics of measurement and it was impossible to systematise the data at noise levels. It is good that units of local self-government and cities are still preparing personnel for these jobs. For example, the University of Novi Sad Technology Faculty and the local self-government of the city of Baja implemented the projects "Strategic identification of noise levels" and "Action Plan" under the IPA programme of cross-border co-operation. The Hungarian partner developed the base model for the input of the data needed to map noise in Baja and the data needed to map noise in Novi Sad were entered in that database. As part of the project, partners also developed action plans for Baja and Novi Sad, based on collected data and noise maps. In the AP Vojvodina, once a month, continuous measurements of the level of municipal noise are being carried out and in the previous two decades local self-government units have decided on measures to protect against noise in the environment. The rules on allowed noise levels provide for different norms for different parts of urban settlements. Regular, monthly reports are available on local self-government individuals' websites, and the Health Protection Institute publishes regular annual reports on the measurement of noise in the environment. Annual report on the monitoring of noise in the environment in the measurement of noise levels in the AP Vojvodina in 2018/2019. The year presents the results of measuring noise levels at nine locations in Novi Sad, Subotica and Pancheva. In the territory of the town of Novi Sad during 2019 the average annual value of daily, evening and night noise indicators was increased in all zones, except that the evening noise in the city traffic zone is in line with the national normative. If we analyse the percentages of the population of the endangered and highly endangered noise in the territory of the town of Novi Sad, from April 2018 to March 2019, it is noticeable that in certain measured places in the daily period the number of noise-hazarded inhabitants exceeds 30% of which is the root cause of road traffic noise. In the cases of Pancheva and Subotica, the estimate of the population at risk and very threatened by noise in both cities exceeds 40%, which is also the root cause of road traffic noise. The noise monitoring in Pancheva and Subotica was launched in 1999. In Panchev, short-term monitoring was carried out by the end of 2009, and to the extent that this area is not considered to be very important shows and admit that no financial resources for this activity have been provided in Panchev for 2010. In Subotica, up until 2007, noise levels kept increasing, and since then stagnating. The communal noise in Subotica encourages most of the traffic while industry, small economy, construction and other activities are of little importance. Music from catering facilities is no longer in the first place, now citizens complain about car wash noise, then waste collection and other sources. It is certainly important that the newspaper and the authority of the municipal police officer that, in accordance with the decision of the unit's authority, local self-government can measure the noise levels stemming from the catering facilities. In addition to the authority of the municipal militia, examples from the environment should be considered, such as Croatia and Montenegro in catering facilities, on the device from which music is broadcast, the sound strength limiter has been installed. The volume limiter has become a necessary helper to comply with the regulations concerning the allowed noise level. It is clear that noise cannot be eliminated but can be reduced by regulation and traffic restrictions, air corridor changes, strict technical regulations for vehicles, double windows, wall insulation. At the beginning of the address, I mentioned that it is important to round up a set of green laws, because they are complementary and it is certain that the solutions of the Energy Efficiency Act and rational use of energy on the subsidized purchase of pecs of carpentry will contribute and protect against noise. The reduction in traffic noise is also achieved by planting protective greenery. Natural barriers and in the form of earth's embankments, with or without green so far, can be used to reduce noise levels, but this is also a way to prevent pollution and soil erosion. That's why green and blue spaces should be a priority, because they cool cities during heat waves, prevent floods, reduce noise and promote biodiversity. The SVM Group will support the proposed law because the adoption of the Law on Noise Protection in the Environment will create conditions for training noise protection personnel, especially at local level, to introduce twenty-four-hour continuous noise monitoring, and data available through a unified display of automatic noise monitoring, to carry out acoustic zoning of all units of local self-government and to carry out assessments of adverse noise effects on healthy people and the environment. Of course, we know that the rules are not enough to solve the problem, and therefore the SVM parliamentary group will be engaged to inform citizens systematically and continuously about excessive noise and harmfulness in health, to work to raise awareness of the importance of prevention and protection against noise, because we can often contribute significantly to reducing the noisy environment ourselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9534	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9535	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Zukorlic. The honourable minister, the honourable MPs, the natural resources on this planet, we have finally begun to understand that, are not inexhaustible. Recently, an intergovernmental panel for climate change, which was done by a group of UN experts, has indicated that the state of the environment in the era of accelerated climate change is alarming, that damage done to this planet can no longer be corrected, but that further destruction of the planet of the earth is not only possible but also we have to stop, if we want to survive today and those who will come after us. The law that we are discussing today has a focus on noise protection, which is particularly exposed to people in built areas, public parks or other quiet zones in agglomerations and wider urban areas, in quiet areas outside the settlement, near schools, hospitals and other noise-sensitive areas. The noise in the environment has finally received its legal definition - it is every unwanted or harmful sound broadcast in an open or closed space, which produces people's activities, including noise broadcast by means of transport, road, rail and air traffic, as well as noise generated by industrial and manufacturing activities, including noise at locations where industrial activities are carried out. When we talk about this law, we are not only thinking of increased noise as a category that concerns only certain segments of human health or simple commodity, but we are convinced that the application of this law will have an extremely positive impact on the protection and improvement of the quality and structure of the entire eco system, but also more specifically, on the protection and conservation of flora and fauna, because it will affect the conservation of the habitat of eco-systems and species, the preservation of the original genetic diversity, the maintenance of natural ecological processes that can otherwise be threatened by increased noise. In a narrow sense, for a person's closest environment, it is important that this law, by making strategic maps of noise and action plans, will address key obstacles that stand in the way of reducing the harmful fact of noise, human health and the environment, above all from road, rail and air traffic. One of the reasons for the adoption of a new law and regulation of the problem of increased noise from catering facilities that have a adverse effect on human health and the environment. Not so long ago in downtown Belgrade we had protests of citizens who rebelled because huge noise comes from nearby clubs and cafes and endangers their health and the right to rest. The development of the economic branch of tourism in the Republic of Serbia is inevitable. Thank God, it has led to an increase in the number of tourists visiting Serbia, especially the capital and other major cities and tourist destinations in our country. The development of tourism also increases the number of catering facilities that host residents and tourists with programme broadcasting, leading to an increased level of noise affecting human health and the environment. This problem has become even more pronounced in this time of the pandemic, when you have the fact that the rate of contagion is much higher in public facilities where there is noise that comes from loud music, because then guests are forced to talk louder to hear it, and thus the possibility of contagion is strengthened. In parallel, in the tourism and catering area of the economy, where the source of noise is inevitable and popular content in the general offer, there is a legal possibility of measuring noise, as well as eliminating the source of noise by the municipal militia at the time of broadcasting the illicit noise level, in order to protect the environment and the health of people in the acoustic zone in which the source of noise is located. The catering facilities in which music is broadcast or an entertainment program will otherwise be required to provide prescribed conditions and sound protection measures. The conditions and measures to protect from noise through spatial and acoustic planning, sound protection, regulation of limit values, indicators of noise in the environment, acoustic zoning, constant measurement and assessment of noise levels in the environment, etc. will be established. For a breach of that legal person which emits noise above the prescribed thresholds from now on, it will also be possible to impose a penalty on the protection of the exercise of certain activities for up to three years and to prohibit the responsible person, the legal person, from performing certain tasks for up to one year. This is a particularly good solution because very often a threat to such sanctions has a greater positive effect on a potential perpetrator than a fine. In acoustic zones and quiet zones in anglomerations and outside the settlement, the use of noise sources is restricted or prohibited, i.e. activities that cause noise above the prescribed limit values. In order to maintain public gatherings, entertainment and sports events and other activities in the open and closed area, which can lead to an excess of the limits of noise indicators, a unit of local self-government determines the streets, street parts and settlements intended for these purposes, as well as sound protection measures at the time of maintenance. The law stipulates that such public gatherings and other activities must be announced 20 days in advance, so local self-government units that decide on the maintenance of these public gatherings, entertainment and sports events and other activities will have enough time to organise the control of compliance with the prescribed noise limit values. The law on noise protection in the environment, which has been adopted, has regulated this area in accordance with the principles contained in the set of laws in the field of environmental protection, and this law will also mark the full harmonisation of this act with European Directive 2002/49. Therefore, future design, construction and reconstruction of residential and business facilities, transport infrastructure facilities, above all I mean roads, railways, airports and industrial facilities, will have to be implemented and sound protection measures. It is introduced as a legal provision to units of local self-government with more than 100,000 inhabitants making strategic maps of noise and action plans, and strategic noise maps are necessarily made for all agglomerations, main roads, main railways and major airports, in accordance with this law. This law states that all strategic maps of agglomeration noise for the main roads, for the main railway lines and for the main airports will have to be drawn up by 30 June 2024 at the latest, and action plans to protect from noise in the environment no later than one year after the adoption of strategic noise maps. It is also worth commending that the deadline of only one year from the date of entry into force of the sublegal act is also given for the determination of acoustic zones. Finally, honourable fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, I always remember what our President Aleksandar Vukic said, we have some ministers who are trying, we have some ministers who are not trying. I think it's just today in this tide that she's the one who's working very hard. I'm glad she's here with us a lot, and I think we from the PUPS Group "Three P" support her work as a whole. We didn't even try for a moment to protect her when they were patting her on the shoulder and the other one was attacking her, we looked to support her work right here in the tide, because we knew she was doing a good thing for Serbia. This shows that Aleksandar Vukic, president of our Republic, knows well how to select personnel, even when it comes to such topics, environmental issues. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9536	Thank you too, Vice President Krkobic. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9537	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is today talking about another important law in the field of environmental protection. It is a new bill on protection against noise in the environment, replacing the current law, adopted in 2009. The bill is another confirmation of Serbia's European road to environmental protection, which confirms almost two years of expert work on the bill, which was launched immediately after establishing a negotiating position for Chapter 27, relating to environmental protection. All this is about the commitment of our government and the Resistant Ministry of Environmental Protection, to worry about the protection of the health of the population and the development of sectoral policies of sustainable development. At global level, environmental policy is implemented through the concept of a green or circular economy, which aims to ensure the further development of human society, with priority concerns about the conservation of natural resources and the protection of nature, which we are part of as a human community. Unfortunately, man himself is the most serious factor in destroying the planet, but also in his own health. The need to protect nature and natural resources and the need to affirm the planet's sustainable development has been recognised first by developed countries, which, due to intensive development and unlimited use of natural resources and energy, have become large environmental pollutants themselves. From there are the roots of a new development concept, so-called The green economy, one of the other half of the 20th century, is one of the key instruments for achieving sustainable development. Countries that are heading towards an inclusive green economy through related strategies are turning their economy into sustainability drivers and will only be ready to tackle the main development challenges of the 21st century. The need to bring society's development into line with our planet's capabilities has been verified through the UN Millennium Declaration, which has established the Millennium Goals, and one of the eight objectives is to ensure environmental sustainability. When it comes to our EU accession, we achieve these ecological objectives right through negotiating Chapter 27 and in this respect, the Republic of Serbia is very committed to working both in the field of formulating an adequate legislative framework and in the field of environmental policy enforcement. Our green agenda is realised by both domestic budgets and EU pre-accession funds, which means that the EU cares that countries that are not members of this community formulate their green policies and implement green economy projects, because sustainable development is a global goal, and for large polluters there are no borders most often. I made this introduction precisely because of the global importance of the topic we are going to talk about today, which is urban noise and how to protect the health of the population and the environment from noise as one of the dangerous risk factors for the health of the population and for our living environment. The noise in the environment is very often not seen as a serious factor in the negative impact on health and the cause of many diseases, many of which have lasting consequences. Someone once said – what is it all around us with no color, no smell and no taste, and not air? The answer to that is noise. By definition, noise is briefly every unwanted sound. This means that any sound phenomenon that interferes with work or vacation represents noise. We're talking about the noise in the environment that we also call municipal or urban noise, and we're exposed to it every day, both in the open and in the closed space. The pace of life is increasing in large urban areas, with new technologies and others producing scientific and technological revolutions on the one hand making life easier for people, and on the other hand they represent a multiple source of noise in the environment. The noise becomes an important urban problem, which of course does not mean that there is no noise in the small and rural environments where it is enough to have a sawmill, a silo or something else. According to the definition of noise in the environment, which we are talking about today's bill, all those sounds that come from traffic and means of transport, from the work of heavy construction machines, noises from great events. However, experience shows that it most often responds to noise from catering facilities. Noise products and other sources, but this law does not treat noise in the workplace. What is scientifically confirmed and globally verified is that noise is a major cause of human disease and environmental pollutants. For these reasons, the World Health Organization has put noise into a group of environmental pollutants. Noise has been found to be among the physical agents harmful to human health. For a long time, the unwanted fact of noise was thought to be limited only to hearing organ damage. However, an extensive study of the effects of noise on man has led to alarming data that noise can lead to various physical and mental disorders, and that its impact on human health is much more complex and destructive. Namely, noise has a double effect on human health, and these are auditory and not auditory. Auditive are hearing damage from mild to almost permanent hearing loss that is an incurable disease with permanent disability. No auditory effects are physiological reactions to noise-induced stress. Most of the effects are acute and transient, which depends on the continuity of the duration and intensity of the noise, but can also become chronic. These effective effects are reflected in the cardiovascular system, affecting blood pressure above all, immunological status, the work of the glands with internal secretion, metabolic processes, the nervous system, because excessive noise can cause insomnia, tension, depression, and aggressive behaviour especially in the noise of strength above 80 decibels. The exposure to noise during sleep leads to changes in heart rate, in breathing frequency and makes sleep unquality, which gives a sense of tiredness, nervousness, mood changes, and this all reflects the quality of life and affects the fall in working ability. Some research has shown that... and so-called waste vibrations account for as much as 60% of contaminants of all kinds. Also, the alarming fact is that the noise that the waist also calls a silent killer has a negative effect on children's health. It just affects the glands with internal secretion gives negative effects on hormonal status, so it can be an inspirational and diabetes and other hormonal disorders in children. Also, a number of scientific studies have shown high frequency of psychological subjective disorders in people living in areas with high levels of noise in the environment. The inhabitants of these environments have been shown to complain significantly more often about the feeling of extreme fatigue, headaches, abdominal anxiety, than is the case with residents of a control settlement with normal noise levels. Since noise is measured by decibels, the best acoustic environment for man is a normal conversation ranging from 40 to 50 decibels. For a good dream, the volume of noise should not exceed 30 decibels, which is almost unattainable in urban areas, especially in large cities. The second degree of noise affecting man is the strength of 60 to 80 decibels, which causes a disorder in the cause of the vegetative nervous system and causes certain mental reactions. The third degree of noise is from 90 to 110 decibels, which is unfortunately due to hearing loss, which is primarily discotheque noise. As with many other non-auditive diseases, which I have already cited, of course, all these health effects depend on age, or age, accompanying chronic diseases and half. In fact, the most sensitive noise group is children up to six years of age, and people over 65, and as far as half of women are concerned, are more sensitive to the noise of men. When considering all of the above consequences of the impact of noise on the health of the population, it is clear that there is also a need to have an adequate legal framework to counter this environmental pollutant and a serious cause of population disease. With this proposal for a new law, our legislation in this area is fully in line with the European Union's directive, which is also the basic objective of adopting a new law. The bill defines what noise is in the environment, the noise in the environment is distinguished from related truths, such as noise in the working environment, which is regulated by the Act on Protection and Health at Work, then an extended list of sources of noise, measures and conditions of protection against noise, as well as supervision of the sanctioning of noise emitters, or sources. What the newspaper is compared to the current law is a transfer of the powers to measure noise and to control noise in catering facilities to the municipal militia. I would draw attention here that the municipal militia was not formed in many small municipalities, so it should leave the authority of environmental inspectors to measure and control noise in catering facilities. Also, the transfer of this authority to the municipal militia should include the personnel of the municipal militia. It seems to me that they are now deprived of a professional dimension, i.e. there are no environmental engineers in their ranks, and this profession should be adequately promoted as a 21st century profession, without which the professional relationship with all environmental pollutants cannot be imagined. All Member States of the United Nations will have to deal with the realisation of these millennium targets. The proposed solutions provide noise protection measures related to planning and construction, as well as sound protection, acoustic zoning, the creation of strategic noise maps in the environment, the measurement of noise levels and others. The introduction of acoustic zoning into the uterus of spatial and urban planning involves systematic integration of noise protection into the planning process. Also, the local self-government unit body in which a municipal militia officer is employed must have accreditation in accordance with a specific law in order to measure noise from catering facilities in accordance with certain standards. Devices that carry out measurements, i.e. phonometers, the sound calibrators must be etalonized. The evaluation is a key process in achieving the traceability of measurement and determines the reliability and quality of the measurement results. In the Republic of Serbia, there are several laboratories that have been accredited to be able to establish according to standards. Decisions proposed in the law should have a positive impact on citizens and the environment. What is important in law enforcement is that not all other forms of urban noise should be ignored at the expense of noise in catering facilities. As a doctor, I put health first, i.e. its damage as an adverse consequence of the exposure to noise, and the most endangered is the health of the most vital part of our population, and these are children and these are the youngest ages. It should not be forgotten that our children, exposed to small noises, are due tomorrow to become adults and healthy people to whom we will leave our country. The noise in the environment can only be reduced by an integrated approach, a prevention that always gives the best results, and Robert Koh once said, I will quote: "One day humanity will fight noise as with cholera and vermin." I think that time has come and we have to deal with it. Since I as a health worker, as well as the party I belong to, the Socialist Party of Serbia, is an extremely important nation of Serbia, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill in the day of voting. There's one more thing I'd like to add, 'cause I've never heard enough commendation. I would like to commend you, Madam Minister, for what has been done, because we as the Green Parliament Group have been visiting the Zlatibor County. It was a thematic visit, and I am really thrilled with the solution of the waste dump at Prepolje. It is a truly wonderful solution and an example of how to work, to work together, because it is necessary to preserve that wonderful nature of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9538	I thank the esteemed Dr. Ivkovic for his presentation. The next on the list is the popular MP, Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9539	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with Associates, Honored Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People, Honored Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal to protect against noise in the environment, which the MP group Aleksandar Vukic - will support our children in the day of voting, given that the problem of noise is increasingly present and that it can pose a risk to people's health. The Republic of Serbia passed the Noise Protection Act in 2009. Amendments and additions came in 2010 and thus, in part, our legislation is in line with EU directives, in particular 44% of the environmental noise management assessment. The main objective of the adoption of a new law on noise protection in the environment is to fully bring this area in line with EU directives. As part of the EU accession negotiations, the Republic of Serbia has notified the European Commission on compliance with the rules, guidelines for further work on changes and additions and recommendations that we should transpose the definitions from the directive, then more precisely define who makes strategic maps of noise and action plans, and that deadlines for making them are fully in line with Directive 2002/49. This law is designed to contain nine chapters and the objective of adopting this law is: establishing, maintaining, improving the uniform system of protection in our country's territory, establishing and achieving measures in the field of noise protection, preventing or reducing the effects of noise on human health and the environment, establishing the limit values of noise in the environment towards the acoustic zone, the type of object or sensitivity of the population, as well as the type of source of noise, establishing the degree of exposure of noise in the environment through the production of noise cards in the environment, based on unique noise indicators and prescribed noise assessment methods, and then adopting action plans based on data from noise maps in order to prevent and reduce noise exposure and provide public access to noise in the environment, as well as noise effects. The noise today is the noise that people in built areas, public parks, quiet agglomeration zones, quiet zones outside the settlements, noises near schools, hospitals and other noise-sensitive zones are exposed to. The very source of noise is the emitter of unwanted sound. This law does not refer to noise created in the workplace, does not refer to noise in the means of transport, does not refer to noise from neighbouring households, military activities, domestic and wild animals, sound advertising from religious facilities. The law on the agenda today will also regulate the rights and obligations, beginning with the Republic, through the Environment Protection Agency, an autonomous province from units of local self-government, businesses and other persons, to citizens in order to protect against noise in order to achieve the objectives set. The ministry determines the measures and conditions of sound protection, prescribes conditions for the authorisation of professional organisations, gives consent to action plans, monitors and control of the application of noise protection measures. The Environmental Protection Agency, meanwhile, manages the noise monitoring database, collects strategic noise maps and action plans and delivers map data to the European Commission, provides public data availability. The Autonomous Region shall establish the fulfilment of the measures and conditions of sound protection, ensure the implementation and financing of noise monitoring, monitor and control of the application of noise protection measures in the environment. Local self-government units representing agglomeration have an obligation to make revisions of strategic maps, as well as action plans. The local self-government unit determines the measures and conditions of sound protection, performs acoustic zoning, determines silent zones and measures of ban and restrictions, determines the measures and conditions of sound protection and use of the source of noise in residential, residential and business facilities, conducts the monitoring of noise in the environment and monitors and controls the application of noise protection measures. Legal persons who are managers, owners and concessionaries of the main railways, main roads and main airports, design and revise strategic noise maps, as well as action plans and provide noise monitoring. Prevention measures also defined by this law are regulated, first of all, in the area of planning and construction, so that measures and conditions of noise protection are provided in spatial and urban plans, the infrastructure, industrial, housing, recreation and other facilities, as well as acoustic zoning and setting out specific regimes for the use of these areas. The conditions of noise protection are indicators of noise, limit values and acoustic zoning. The legal person who is the owner, i.e. the user of the source of the noise, is required to ensure, in accordance with the law, the measurement of the noise that he emits and the costs of measuring noise in the area of influence, as well as to apply the noise protection measures prescribed by this law. The catering facility in which music is broadcast or another entertainment program is required to provide measures and conditions of sound protection, while the control and measurement of noise levels from the catering facility is now being performed by a municipal militia officer with a special device for measuring noise. In order to maintain public gatherings and activities, entertainment and sports activities, whether they are organised in an open or closed space, the local self-government unit is now deciding and it is necessary to report at least 20 days in advance with established noise protection measures and newspapers that they cannot approve public gatherings without a unit of local self-government on established sound protection measures. Strategic maps are made for the agglomerations of the main, railway, roads and main airport. For agglomerations, units of local self-government work together with other environmental entities, while for main roads, railways, airports build legal entities that are managers, owners, concessionaries, in collaboration with other entities. The action plan for noise protection is being developed for all areas for which strategic noise maps are being developed and carried out every five years, and the revision is possible in case of major changes before. The owner, i.e. the noise user, now carries the costs of measuring the noise before being used and after reconstruction, and regular or periodic measurement is carried out once every three years. The measurement of noise in the environment is carried out by an authorised person, and the measurement of noise coming from catering facilities, next to the authorised person, can be measured from now on by a municipal militiaman with a special device for measuring noise, and the unit of local self-government acts closer determines how to control noise measurements. Subjects to environmental protection against noise are obliged to provide public access to information and data from strategic maps of noise and action plans, clearly, comprehensibly and accessible. The ministry is overseeing the Environmental Protection Agency, the autonomous province and the local self-government unit in carrying out entrusted tasks. In addition to its powers, the communal militia officer is particularly authorised to measure noise levels originating in catering facilities. The rights and duties of inspectors and the authority to carry out inspectors' supervision are prescribed. An appeal by the Minister for Environmental Protection may be made to the inspector within 15 days of the receipt of the solution. The draft law also provides for criminal provisions which are in conformity with the Law on Infringements and despite fines imposed for the offence, a legal person may also be given a safeguard which constitutes the withdrawal of cases which have been used or intended to carry out the offence or which have been committed. The transitional and final provisions also set deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts to regulate this area closer. The adoption of this law and the amendment of sublegal acts is planned to fully comply with EU directives by the end of 2022. Serbia is investing today in all sectors of environmental protection. Your efforts and work, Minister, are very visible, because today it approaches solving decades of problems, but what may be more important, we create a healthier and cleaner environment for all generations to come. Serbia was the first country in the region to broadcast green Eurobonds on the international financial market, thus ensuring the financing of green environmental projects under very favourable conditions. Funds from issued bonds will be used to raise standards of the environment, but also to improve the quality of life of citizens. The capital green project, such as wastewater treatment plants, such as the construction of sewage infrastructure, such as water treatment, waste treatment and recycling plants, investment in renewable energy sources, conservation of biodiversity, and pollution prevention, will also be financed. Construction of waste treatment infrastructure according to the highest standards, perhaps belongs to one of the most important projects in the field of environmental protection, so over the past period we have been able to see that the old dump in Vinca has been closed due to decades of irregular disposal of waste, and that it will be rehabilitated in the coming period. This project and the construction of modern plants solves Belgrade's biggest environmental problem. Also, during the month of September we could see a major cleanup action, where 500 wild dumps were cleaned in 43 cities and municipalities. Every dump and dump affects the aero-pollution, as well as the pollution of land and water, and therefore it is important to keep every clean location and that irresponsible individuals be punished. What makes us especially happy is that this kind of action will continue from month to month, because that is what we are fighting for a cleaner and healthier future for all families, but also for all citizens. In the previous period it was also thought of aero-contamination. By forming the National Climate Change Council, which consists of representatives of the ministry, the academic community, the civil sector and experts, we see that environmental protection and adaptation to changed climate conditions are high on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is heading towards providing citizens with new green jobs, but also quality life in a climate-wide society. Well, so, for example, road traffic was the second largest polluter of nitrogen oxide emissions in 2020 with a contribution of as much as 19%. The transition to environmentally acceptable vehicles is a solution to this problem, so according to this state, it reacted immediately and the Ministry of Environmental Protection this year has allocated the largest means so far to subsidise purchases of electric and hybrid vehicles, which contributes to better air quality. Serbia will continue to support environmental vehicles in the coming period, as we are approaching green transport, which is important for a healthier environment. These projects and actions, subsidies, are of paramount importance to us because this is an indication that it is serious to address any problem, and these problems are, unfortunately, present a dozen years ago. But, on the other hand, in order to preserve and improve tomorrow, we have an extremely important education in schools. This is an important step for the future, for this education will help us to have responsible citizens who will be safe to their environment tomorrow. In connection with this and the Co-operation Protocol, a pilot project called "The Role of Students in the Protection of the Environment" in 29 elementary schools in Serbia was announced last week. The idea and plan is to obtain a quality paper on systematic education for this area, which is expected to be produced during 2022 and implemented in all primary schools in Serbia. As we fight for the better and healthier lives of all citizens, on the other hand, some use the topic of environmental protection for protests, which are actually political gatherings. Of course, ideas, suggestions and suggestions are important to us so that we can fight together for Serbia, which, over the years, will be a better, more pleasant and healthy place to live, but unfortunately, those who stand behind the protests today had the opportunity to solve these problems or at least try to solve them when they were in power and when they were directly in charge of it. But, dear Serbian citizens, when we remember better, 10 years ago in Serbia protested poverty, economic crisis, because the katans were placed on dozens of factories, people were left out of work every day, due to unpaid earnings, the insecure existence and the inability of decent life, while today protesting polluted air, which I think, and I hope you will agree with me, is an indicator that living standards are better today. Of course there's still a lot to do, but the air hasn't been polluted since yesterday. The air was polluted ten years ago, but then maybe we didn't even know the air was polluted or we had other bigger problems, so it wasn't one of our priority problems. Then unemployment was 26%, and inflation was double-digit, and today unemployment, despite the global crisis, was caused by the coronary virus, is about 11%. Today new factories are being built in Serbia, new investors are constantly coming in, new jobs are opening up, and we are the absolute leader in the region by the inflow of foreign direct investment. For example, the company "Leoni" in Serbia opened four factories: in Prokuplje, Malošište and Nis, and recently in the King. Leoni is one of the largest employers in Serbia today with 13,000 employees, and this is just one of the many factories that have come and invested in Serbia in opening new jobs. Today, the average salary in Belgrade is 702 euros, in Serbia 564 euros, the average minimum is 300 euros, and in 2013, the same minimum was 159 euros. Serbia is building up a lot today. The French Corridor, Novi Sad-Ruma, Ruma-Shabac highway is being built. Before the end of the year, construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway will begin. A 26km-long bypass is being made around Belgrade, which will be completed within a year. Then, the Moravski corridor from Čačka, through Kraljev, Trstenik, Kruševac, to Cicevic and Pojat, in the length of as much as 107 kilometers, and the first section will already be opened in a few months. There are also tours around Užica, Loznica, Milanovac, and it starts with the construction of the "Autopute of Peace" from Nis to Merdar and our strategic interest is "Open Balkans" which is the integration, integration and economic growth of the entire region, and a major step towards this is certainly the beginning of building this road of peace. Today we're doing what hasn't been completed in decades, and one of those projects is also the rail corridor 10. Corridor 10 - the highway is of paramount importance for the Pyrothian district, where I come from, and it will certainly mean to us both the railway corridor and to us as locals, but it will also mean for regional and international traffic and stronger integration of our railways and roads into the European traffic network. The works also started on rehabilitation and modernisation of the Nis – Brestovac railway. Also planned is the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway and after that trains will be able to transport at a speed of 120 to 160 km per hour, so that all of us citizens will be able to travel from Nis to Belgrade in less than two hours. Serbia's future, the networking of roads and railways, they bring people together, strengthen the economy and bring new investors, thus opening up more and more jobs. The law on noise protection, which we are talking about today, will certainly contribute to the design, construction and reconstruction of the transport infrastructure facility, as well as industrial facilities and business, housing and housing in the implementation of the sound protection measure, and will, in accordance with these and other specific laws, determine the fulfilment of sound protection measures in accordance with technical regulations and standards. As Serbia progresses in all segments, many envy us, and the opposition has absolutely no political plan and programme, but deals with daily attacks. They attack everything they do, every project, because all these projects planned to use it to fill their own pockets, not for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so at the time of the yellow bridges on Ada, it cost almost as the entire Moravian corridor that is being built today. Last week, Serbia paid back a $700m debt with a $25m interest rate from 2011 which is an example of extremely poor borrowing under unfavourable conditions. The same ones who brought us to the brink of the ire today are attacking Alexander Vukic, insulting him, insulting his family, insulting the people, but also insulting the common sense of all citizens who see new hospitals today, new routes, new railways, new factories, which today see new jobs, which are already receiving salaries and pensions, who see the fight for the preservation of peace, stability, as well as economic progress, but not the economic progress of individuals whom we cannot now count all millions in accounts and all thousands of squares of property that they have acquired by robbing Serbia, but the economic progress of the state, and by the end of the year there will be a growth of around 7% and we expect that next year's GDP will be preceding Croatia and Slovenia for the first time in history. While some choose neither the way nor the means to regain power, the people send them into political history, because today Serbia is a strong country, not on the brink of bankruptcy as they left it. The opposition's problem is that there is no strong force on the outside that would bring them back to power against the will of the people, because in Serbia today they are asking citizens who no longer want to be led by those who have robbed the state and who are working against the interests of their country and who are talking against the interests of their country, and just for the sake of their own personal interests. Even people from Europe, the same ones the opposition pulled by the sleeve, saw that they were not ready for any conversation, but that they only cared about personal wealth. In the inability to return to the chairs and continue robbing, they shamefully attack over their tycoon private media all that is most sacred - attacking the family, attacking the brothers, children, and we saw shameful attacks last week and on the mother of Alexander Vukic. We will not respond to the same measure because the family is sacred to us, but that is why we will fight even more strongly for Alexander Vukic's policy and Serbia's interests. We will not allow physical or verbal violence. We will fight against the economic and moral bottoms they want to drag us into, trampling everyone in front of them just for the sake of their own personal interests. The decent Serbia and decent citizens provide absolute support to President Aleksandar Vukic and his family and are ashamed of any political attack and are ashamed of all the attacks they use for political accounts that are constantly shaking the public. It must not be anyone's family being targeted for an attack or any kind of political reckoning, just because it defends the state, the interests of citizens and the dignity of thieves and the political bottom with millions of accounts around the world. The people see the fight, the results and the care of Alexander Vukic for us, for our Serbia, for a peaceful, stable and strong country. Alexander Vukic is not about personal interests, personal wealth, but about how we leave Serbia to our children and what Serbia will look like in 10, 20 or 50 years, and we want to leave our children economically strong, healthier Serbia, and so Serbia today chooses work and progress, chooses respect and honesty, chooses decency and a healthy and safe future, and therefore surrender is not an option. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9540	Thank you. We're done with a list of authorised representatives and presidents of Parliament clubs. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9541	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, we have a law on the agenda that, I believe, there is a consensus between most political entities, as well as most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which in itself says that this law was overly necessary, that those rules that were in the previous period were not sufficient to regulate this area to the end, and that is why it is very important that today we treat this law in this way. Of course, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support and vote in favour of this bill along with those proposals, observations which, in previous address, academics Muammer Zukorlic highlighted, and when it comes to churches, mosques and other religious objects which, for the purposes of their believers, issue different types of calls for prayers during those traditional periods when this prayer is provided for by religious calendar and timing. On the other hand, this law is very important to us because very often the legal failure of this issue has led to certain specific problems, especially in urban areas, populated urban environments, where we are aware that everyone is looking to achieve their own interests, their own goals, and that very often they do not care or look at the perspectives of others. that it endangers a certain space of privacy or the need of other people. It is therefore very important that these provisions concerning noise protection, especially in the case of educational institutions, religious institutions, health institutions, that this noise is largely contained in order not to interfere with mental health, or the progressive nature of those who are in the process of knowledge and intellectual apron, but also patients who are over-needed to maintain their mental health in order to cope with various aspects of the various health problems they are exposed to. It's very important, let's say, especially in our urban environments to define by regulation and by this law, which seems to be those border guards that anyone who can and who needs a great deal of sound can use when it comes to time, when it comes to space, and that doesn't disrupt any space, or time, or the mental health of others. I especially stress this, because we are on the occasion that in urban areas we have both catering facilities and various types of other facilities, gyms, etc., which are located in the ground-floor parts of residential buildings and which, if they are not aware on their own that their sound, which is allowed, can very often damage privacy and harm all other residents. It is also very important to define in these urban areas how much, when and how anyone can in these settlements, entertainment facilities, etc., during sports meetings, because our sports fields, especially stadiums in urban areas, settlements, and very often these events that are there negatively reflect the population in nearby buildings or urban areas. It is therefore very important that this law be implemented to the end, in addition to being adopted here in the National Assembly, and when assessing whether a new facility, some new company, some new business entity that will produce, has in its description the activity and this segment of noise, will be sufficiently designed to ensure that its operation does not negatively affect the population, and that this part of the existing facilities be to the extent that the law is guaranteed, or to the extent to which it does not endanger the mental or mental health of the population. This is very important because the irregularities of these areas in the previous period have led to disagreements between those who had strength, lines, links, connections to certain political entities to abuse their rights, so let's say we were very often in a situation, this is mentioned here many times, for example, with the pelette factories in our town in Novi Pazar, which are not respecting all the legal measures, not respecting what is foreseen when it comes to protecting the environment, but for years they have continued to endanger, unfortunately, the population by dropping these kinds of particles that are very dangerous and for the health of people, but also for the health of flora and fauna. In this way, by solving the noise, we hope that some future changes and additions of the law will also be regulated and implemented as well as other segments relating to the protection of the environment and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9542	I thank the esteemed Professor Fehratovic. Next on the list, Honorable National MP Jasmina Karanac, MP club SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9543	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Vujovic, respected cabinet members, environmental ministers, co-workers and fellow MPs, the Law on Noise Protection is another one in a series of laws concerning the promotion of the environment, which brings the Assembly's Saviz and is fully in line with the rules governing the EU. The importance of this law is that its application will reduce the harmful facts of noise on human health and the environment. The news is that the draft law that is before us provides for the establishment, maintenance and improvement of a single system of noise protection in the environment in the entire territory of the Republic. The law lays down measures in the area of noise protection to reduce adverse effects on human health and the human environment. According to the World Health Organization, noise is the biggest cause of environmental health problems after air pollution. Of course, many more difficult health problems are associated with air pollution, but noise affects quality of life, especially mental health. Noise pollution is one of the main features of modern life, primarily in cities, and the main causes of noise are traffic, industry, transport and citizens themselves. The term "cities that never sleep" gets a new meaning when we talk about noise pollution, constantly buzzing traffic, noises from construction sites, sirens, announcements, music that monitors the day and night life and the rhythm of a city. Excessive noise is not only about Belgrade, but also about other major cities in Serbia. The noise is a phenomenon whose consequences are faced by all more developed cities around the world. For example, only during 2016 more than two hundred thousand complaints of excessive noise were filed in New York. It is inevitable that the process of urbanisation will grow and this problem will grow and an increasing degree of urbanisation will be exposed to a high level of noise. Studies show that every fifth European is exposed to the adverse effects of excessive noise, which is more than 100 million people who suffer these consequences. If active measures are not taken, this problem will certainly increase in the coming years and it is good that Serbia is passing the Law on Noise Protection. I would like to, Minister, especially to commend that this bill provides for preventive measures, because as with health and pollution, prevention is often the best medicine. That is why this bill already warns problems at the stage of planning and building large urban and other projects, and this is a much easier and more efficient path than when failures and shortcomings are later corrected. Thus, according to the proposal for this law, a component of the projects will be acoustic planning when designing and building new factories, roads, railways, railways and other significant sources of noise. This means, above all, that the planning must take care of the layout of buildings and their function, as well as the schedule of industrial, residential and recreational zones, all in order to reduce noise to an optimal level. Part of the planning and construction, which also provides for the bill, are acoustic measurements and the development of strategic noise maps that will cover all those places where noise pollution is intense, large cities, major roads, railways, airports. In line with the creation of strategic noise maps and acoustic measurements of populated places, local self-government will be required to determine so-called. ‘silent zones’, i.e. oasis in settlements and wider urban areas. Special attention should be paid here, especially to the level of noise near schools and hospitals. Although it may not sound like a particularly dangerous form of pollution, over a decade of research has shown the many consequences of excessive noise on the health of those exposed to it. It is most apparent that an increased level of noise affects hearing problems and early hearing loss. The noise also causes bad consequences in children, leads to concentration disturbances and memory reduction, thereby creating learning problems and reducing their ability to solve tasks. Noise pollution is associated with the consequences of the risk of developing anxiety and depression. The noise is even associated with cardiovascular disease. Every day, 70 million Europeans are exposed to a noise of over 55 decibels just because of traffic noise. For illustration, for a quality dream, according to the World Health Organization recommendation, noise should not exceed 30 decibels. In order for the law we are discussing today to succeed in its purpose, which is to protect citizens from noise, or their peace, it is necessary that it be consistently implemented. For those who disobey the law, or who violate it, adequate penalties are provided for and that is good. The bill provides that municipal police officers will be able to measure noise levels and, more importantly, will be able to warn those responsible for the incident on site, or issue a criminal report and temporarily withdraw equipment to harass citizens. There is great responsibility for units of local self-government that are obliged to determine the measures and conditions of sound noise protection. These legal solutions will positively affect all citizens because they will reduce exposure to adverse noise effects where they can endanger human health and the environment. By taking appropriate measures of protection, the quality of life of citizens will also improve. I am pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised the seriousness of the noise pollution problem and has decided to follow the EU's modern practice in its resolution. I hope that the importance of long-term planning will be recognised in the future too, so that pollution problems can be successfully solved before they arise. The bill represents a significant newspaper and is approaching Serbia's best practices from the world and will therefore support the proposal in the voter's Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9544	Thank you. Next on the list, a representative of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9545	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, noise pollution has become one of the main features of urban centres of large cities, and catering facilities are the main environmental pollutants of these city parts. The quality of the environment is, among other things, measured by parameters that show the level of noise of individual urban districts. The proposal for this law provides for the establishment of a single system and the establishment of protection measures to reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health. These amendments to the law define noise more precisely, extends the list of sources of noise, as well as measures to protect and empower the competent authorities to measure noise. The amendments to the law give authority to the municipal militia of local self-government that they can measure and control noise from catering facilities and that is one of the most significant newspapers of this law. They will be able to warn those who break the rules, issue a violation order, temporarily close the facility and take away the means from which the noise is broadcast. The goal is to respond immediately to citizens' applications and they will be able to place them on the spot with devices equipped to measure noise and express protection measures. The measures are certainly not directed against the guests who respect the regulations, but only against the arrogant and irresponsible owners of the catering facilities. By law so far, the inspectors first warned the caterers, then failed to measure noise and, of course, the often announced measurement schedule does not represent a real picture of the real state of noise broadcasting in certain parts. Not to mention that some of the joints are privileged and are being bypassed almost regularly. We all know that the law-amending initiative came from the city of Belgrade and there must be the biggest problems of this kind. The residents of Cetinja and Zetska Street in Belgrade have long known problems. Today I'm going to present a big problem in the city centre of Novi Sad. In fact, it's about the street of Laza Telecko, located in the strict center of the city. On the street, about 200m long, there are 50 different places. Every day, especially on the weekend, it gathers thousands of people until the early morning hours. A large number of locals do not respect any measures, especially when it comes to loud music and any other kind of noise from the streets, etc., or secondary noises. Despite the regular control of the competent inspection and sanctioning of irresponsible hosts, this problem has been impossible for years. Citizens are in a situation where they can't sleep or they can only do it with medication. At their call, the communal inspection comes out and there's an insufferable noise again upon their departure. In addition to this great problem, residents of this part of town are threatened by the fact that they cannot sell their property, or the value of their property and apartments, is far below market values and that is a huge problem for them. There is one example from 2017 when the owner of a 120-square-square apartment sold the property for 48,000 euros, as he could not withstand the unbearable noise and life in those circumstances. Some citizens even offered the town of Novi Sad their property to buy them at real prices because people were tired of reporting more than they can and who are breaking the rules and jeopardizing other citizens. We hope that these amendments to the law will largely solve these and similar problems. The fines provided for in these amendments of the law will certainly help solve problems better. In fact, in the case of repeated violations over a year, there will be fines of 250,000 to 500,000 dinars, which is indeed a great penalty. These are serious measures that will certainly produce results if they are properly going to solve these problems. Local self-governments are responsible for any activity and non-measures against those who break regulations and often get the impression that the authorities did not want to engage in the problem of noise. It is important that this new law enables local authorities to be able and must use their resources in such a way that they are more efficient than they have ever been before. The amendments to the law stipulate that public gatherings, entertainment and sports events and other activities in open and closed spaces that can lead to the overrun of noise limit values are decided by local self-governments. The sound protection measures shall determine the units of local self-government at the request of the organiser. The organiser is obliged to submit the request within 20 days of the start of the event and this is also a significant newspaper. Certainly the law is very necessary for our citizens and the JS Parliamentary Group will support the law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9546	I thank the MP, Mr. Unkovic. The next on the list is a representative of the PUPS parliamentary club – "Tri P", Honorary MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9547	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Krkobiq, is a respected minister with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on today's agenda, there is a proposal for a new Law on Noise Protection. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS Parliamentary Group – "Three P" in the voting day will support this law and other proposals from this session and vote in favour. The proposal for a new Law on Noise Protection, which is on the agenda of today's session, presents and in practice demonstrates the government's declared intentions to pay greater attention in the coming period to address the problem of environmental protection as an important factor in nature conservation. Most of us who live in large cities, and more and more in larger places, can personally testify that noise is like an elevated and obstructing sound long ago more and more the factor that adversely affects man’s mental and physical health, and that therefore it is necessary to systematically work on its reduction normally through certain legal frameworks. Although this problem at first sight may not be as important and public as other aspects of the environment can be seen in practice, some steps have been taken on this plan to protect the most threatened from noise, such as setting sound barriers on certain sections of our main highway that pass through larger populated places where residential buildings were close to it. However, I must stress that this has not been done everywhere. For example, on the highway to Corridor 10 the highway passes through a good part of the town of Nisa, through the village of Ratko Jović and Branko Bejegović, right next to the buildings and houses themselves and that no barriers have been set in any place for a long time. That's why it's important, dear minister, that you have this information and that you have a potential impact on the resolution of these shortcomings. On the other hand, I am proud to say that our city administration in Nis among the first of the major cities has fulfilled its legal obligations and, with partnership with the IPA funds, managed to build strategic noise maps for the urban urban area according to its sources. It's a special pleasure to hear today from colleagues that Nis is the only city that did it. In relation to the current law, the proposal we are discussing today brings far more elaborate solutions in this direction. In the new bill of law, unlike the old, it is specified to which cases this law does not apply, and as such are defined and the sources of noise created in the workplace and the environment, in means of transport, separate activities from sound advertising, in performing religious rituals and the like. It can also be concluded that this law correctly defines the competences of environmental entities, which are the Republic via the Ministry and the Environment Protection Agency, the Region, local self-government units and scientific and professional organisations and legal entities and entrepreneurs. The new law now recognises certain specific situations, and I particularly consider it important to be the one in Article 19 which provides for noise protection measures from the catering facilities by which the owners of the catering facilities in which music is broadcast will be obliged to provide for conditions and sound protection measures, and Article 32 defines that control will be able to carry out the municipal militia, with the right to collect penalties with the temporary confiscation of the items that are the source of noise, with the possibility to initiate the procedure for the ban on performance, which was not the case in the previous law. We hope that this, at last, created a clear legal basis for the demarcation of the jurisdiction and conduct of the state authorities in these cases when, in the future, it will be much sharper and more effective in applying for noise from these facilities in the small hours of the night when its time is not. In addition to this most important provision, the new legislative proposal defines both obligations and other entities in this area in more detail. In the future, the largest job will be on local self-government units, which will have to perform acoustic zone of their territories and urban areas, and determine the so-called area according to the results obtained. silent zones, especially hospitals and schools, where they will strive to minimise the systematic noise measures. In the Republic and the province, it will also be a big job to complete noise-hazarded tickets along all major road and rail routes in the country and to respond accordingly to the introduction of new sound barriers in the most vulnerable places. These places, along with the others, are the places I listed in the previous part of the town of Nis. In other environmental issues, I think the most important thing will be to raise awareness as citizens of the fact that noise endangers us all and to try to make it as little as possible. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that this is not the case, because it is enough just to get out of this building and listen to the noise level at this intersection that is one of the busiest in Belgrade, and it is likely in every major city. So I appeal, although our traffic police are burdened with other things, they should definitely pay some attention to this senseless unwitting use of car sirens in our cities, and at least a little less attention to these phenomena. The honourable MPs, given that it is important legal solutions that should be given to our citizens noise protection, will personally give their support in the voting day for their adoption, as we consider it to be good legal proposals. The PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of this law. The PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will also support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote in favour. Dear Minister, I fully support the reviews and the position of Vice-President of the Stefan Krkobbiæ Assembly on the work of your ministry and I thank you personally for that. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9548	I thank the honourable MP, representative of the PUPS parliamentary club "Tri P" Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Next on the list, the honourable folk MP Dr Nina Pavicevic, president of the SPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9549	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today on the agenda again, the topic that represents the global problem of the modern world, the problem resulting from man's action, which is also man's must solve. It's about the noise in the environment. A problem that may often be neglected as an environmental problem because the effects of noise are gradually manifested, so people often do not notice them immediately. The noise is actually an unwanted sound that interferes with a man's rest and work, one of the forms of environmental pollution, which in recent years has become a growing problem, both locally and globally. If we look through history, even in ancient Rome, there were rules to prevent and harass the Romans from the noise that created the iron wheels of the chariots when they moved along the stone floor. To remind me that in Europe, the use of carriages during the night was forbidden in the Middle Ages, so as not to disrupt the peace of the population. The noise is a follower of the environment in which we live, we work, even on vacation and on our way to our workplace. Studies 20 years ago have shown that some 150 million people in high - tech developing countries, even in their homes, were exposed to sound pressures higher than 65 decibels. As a result, developed countries of the world have recognized this problem and noise is referred to as a major factor that significantly endangers the health and working potential of the human population. In our country, in Belgrade's capital, noise is controlled in the 1970s. The noise is a traceable and unforgivable phenomenon of modern life, it is created as a result of human activity, and the particular risk factor is also a high traffic density, the overcrowding of urban centres by a large number of cars, and therefore traffic and represents a major environmental problem that must be solved not only from the point of view of air pollution, but also from the point of view of the manufacturers of big noise, because 80% of the noise in cities is currently creating cars, i.e. Car traffic. In the communal environment, the main causes of noise are traffic and industry, construction public works, major sports events, large music events in the open air, but certainly in public the central place is the issue of the work of catering facilities and noises caused by fun music programs in the open air. In a closed space, noise challengers are also various service devices, as well as radio, TV apparatus and other broadcast devices, as well as home appliances. It is easy to say that noise is one of the main contaminants of our environment, or an invisible worm in an apple, or as it is commonly called a ruthless torturer. In the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment was adopted in 2009, and was later updated. Sublegal acts, i.e. regulations on noise indicators, limit values, methods for assessing noise indicators, disturbances and adverse environmental noise effects with several other regulations are also in place. The institutional noise problem is viewed as a luxury that can only solve rich countries, but it is not. We have to deal with this environmental problem, because it is the health of the population. Our goal must be to avoid or reduce the least harmful effects of noise, both on the environment and on human health. The noise must be reduced, and whatever source of noise it is, either in the open or in the closed space. That is why today we are talking about a new bill and we from the SPS highlight the importance of making tickets for all agglomerations. Otherwise, strategic maps will be made for all main roads and airports in Serbia, while for the cities of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Subotica, strategic maps will be made by local self-government. To my satisfaction, so far this map has been made only for the city of Nis, and will be behind the remaining four agglomerations, until 30 June 2024. Based on map data, the adoption of action plans for noise protection is required. The new law adopts preventive measures against noise, both in the area of planning and construction, which specifically refers to each other's spatial layout of infrastructure of industrial, residential, recreational and other objects. I can't help but mention that the new law also lays down criminal provisions that provide for sanctions for violations of the legal and responsible bodies of the administration and local self-government. That is why informing the public and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of noise is very important. As an example, I would like to highlight the co-operation of two ministries, Minister Vujovic and our Minister Branko Ruzic, who signed a Protocol on the Co-operation of Two Ministries a few days ago. Namely, it is a pilot project – Impact of students in environmental protection. You'll agree with me, schools should pay more attention to environmental issues, not to be just one day a year, on April 20, when it marks Noise Protection Day. We simply cannot allow children in this digital era to learn first to use a mobile phone and later write noises. If some habits we were forced to adopt during this pandemic are transformed into structural changes in behavior, our environment and how it can be different. I mean, I'm talking about being forced to use cars less, we were forced to work from home, maybe by doing a little cleaner and healthier environment. One day when all this remains behind us, every measure to revive and strengthen the economy, will have a direct impact on the way we live, but also on the very environment around the world, and will be the measure of generations. That is why it is up to us to make the choice ourselves in the future and that is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9550	Thank you. Next on the list is the honourable MP Ivana Nikolic, representative of the parliamentary club "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9551	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a very important law, a bill on protection against noise in the environment, which is certainly an important area when we talk about the environment and what is certainly a much more popular topic today than in some previous period. The environment is an area that is always important, but you will agree that under one of these topics in this way has not been treated in some previous period when some who have exercised power in the previous period had all the time in this world to organize many areas and also the area of the environment. But today, the environment is being talked about and operated through concrete projects, through plans and through intensive work on the ground. Two, this topic has never been politicized as it is today. Unfortunately, we in Serbia have, I can say mildly, enemies, foreign mercenaries, who, for the sake of the interest of some other countries, who, primarily for the sake of their own personal interests, are working against their own country. Here we have one fact that huge amounts of money are being poured in, when these things are in question, which individuals are getting, to primarily harm the state of Serbia, to harm President Aleksandr Vukic and to send an ugly picture of his country, so that Serbia is no longer such an interesting destination for new investments and to stop the country's apparent progress. Today, when Serbia records the best results in the economy, in conditions of crisis, the pandemic that has affected the whole world and which has managed to help the economy and citizens, we can really say that we will continue even more intensively, and we have seen that we can, both in previous years and this year, in the conditions of the crisis, fight hard for the realization of all projects, both from other areas and from the field of environmental protection. Given that we heard a lot of information yesterday from the finance minister when it comes to the exceptional results and victory of Serbia, thanks above all to President Alexander Vukic's determined and wise policy since 2014 when he was prime minister, we also see that the power of the state has also been reflected in the aid packages and businesses and citizens, but also to the purchase of medical equipment, the construction of hospitals, the purchase of vaccines and, here we see yesterday, and the purchase of a new drug to stop the spread of this disease as quickly as possible. We can say that our public finances are stable, we have money, and the fact is that all the promises made by President Aleksandar Vukic, that all the promises made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are fulfilled in the day and in the dinar. What is certainly significant is the fact that based on the third quarter results this year and the projection of our growth that has been defined to 5.6%, we have the data that growth is 7% for this quarter, which directly means raising pensions, increasing wages, which means realising everything that is presented in the plan "Serbia 2025". That is why, in the previous period, we have passed a lot of laws, as well as the one we are talking about today, which is to define certain areas and to fully comply with EU rules. When we talk about this law, you have explained in detail, Mrs Vujovic, this morning, it is important to establish a single system and establish noise protection measures to reduce the adverse effects on human health, and the bill defines certain limits and that information will also be available to citizens. So, we make laws, we fight and we create Serbia as best a place for investment, for the better quality of our citizens' lives, for the better environment and slowly, step in step, by the increasing parameters we can step up with the most developed countries of Europe and the world, thanks to, I repeat, the wise, responsible, state-of-the-art policy of President Aleksandr Vukic. We are a country that produces excellent results, which is witnessed by some of the many events of the previous days, a country that records great results both in financial terms and in the technological sense, and in the economic sense, and we have shown how we can and can fight both challenges, when it comes to digitisation and when it comes to the Green Agenda. How much of this bothers many when they have exhausted all the resources, and they, certain people, remain on Dragan Gilas' payroll, have been tasked with constantly attacking President Alexander Vukic, along with these last days of intense orchestrated attacks from the region, especially the previous days when we had a strong struggle against President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to preserve vital interests in the lives of our people at KIM. On the other hand, we have violence, we have swearing, we have the absence of elementary culture, we have the absence of domestic and domestic education, we have the absence of any responsibility for spoken words, and we have the presentation of some creative ideas, not to say maybe anger, and the presentation of opinions and attitudes through the breaking of the party premises of SNS and in Novi Sad. So, just proscration and violence, no ideas or arguments whatsoever. It is evident that Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Marinika Tepic and their speakers are dealing with their own interests, looking for ways to harm Serbia's reputation, how to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic, and especially now that they are panicking before the elections, because they also know they have no idea they have no programme and that they do not have support from Serbian citizens. They only have hundreds of millions of euros stolen from Serbian citizens and they are gathered only about two things -- to fill their own pockets, and the other is to tear down President Alexander Vukic, not choosing funds, attacking his mother, and they want this, son of this, daughter of that, brother of this, etc. That's all they do. So all employees of Dragan Gilas, employees of Multicom, have one single job, to bring down President Aleksandr Vukic, the legitimately elected president, who received support from over two million people in Serbia, while they would come to power without a election. I want to say that yesterday we also had a chance to hear about GDP. In 2021, we will end up with a GDP of almost 52 billion euros, and in 2012, the data was only 33 billion euros, as much as 20 billion euros. Here, we saw how much space Serbia had to move forward and do all that we did in the previous period. Hence, it is not surprising that we currently have the construction of seven highways, that we have intensive construction of homes of health, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and many significant projects of great value. You, Mrs Vujovic, were in Mionica three days ago, and before that you visited the town of Valjevo, therefore another visit to Kolubar County, but shortly before visiting Valjevo you were in the municipality from which I came, in Ub. We held a meeting about the Regional Waste Management Centre in Kalenić. The project, as well as the theme of Kolubara B Termoelectrica in Kalenić, which the president ran through the 2025 plan, was only interesting to some in pre-election campaigns, but we saw it at the meeting, and you talked about it in a press statement, that it is now intensively working on it. People need to know that this is one project that includes certainly half a million people in the Mačvanski and Kolubar district and certain municipalities in Belgrade's territory. It is a project that will solve the problem in a comprehensive way primarily of solid waste. That is why we care about the legal solutions that have been made in the previous period. That is why this legal solution that we are talking about today is important to us, because the area and environmental protection issue should be addressed in a concrete and clear way. We need to create a condition that we can use the money to use it in an adequate way so that we really have a healthier and better environment for the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9552	Thank you. The next on the list is popular MP Daniela Veljovic, representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9553	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the first Law on noise protection in the environment was adopted in 2009, as a special law that was meant to regulate the matter applied to traffic planning and industrial plants in cities and major agglomerations. His shortcomings were felt when he began to be applied in hospitality. The adoption of a new law should regulate rights and obligations, not only of the Republic, but of local self-government units, economic operators, legal persons, but also of citizens. In fact, the main reason is certainly to comply with European standards. Legal solutions should prevent further exposure to adverse noise effects where exposure levels can endanger the environment and human health. That says it's a very important law, but a law that needs to live. Unfortunately, current practice speaks slightly differently, starting first from a very small number of environmental inspectors on the ground. The new law will give authority to the municipal militia that special instruments can measure noise levels. What can lead again to a problem on the ground is an insufficient number of municipal militias that already have a large number of responsibilities, and to measure noise levels will require training, as well as a laying down for obtaining the special licence required for this type of work. The new bill provides for serious penalties for violations of legal persons. What the practice has shown so far is that the administrative procedure unfortunately takes a long time, and in the court for violations, the proceedings lasts for two years, and most of them become obsolete. As counterpart Bačevac pointed out in his presentation, almost no unit of local self-government has an action plan to reduce noise. So the ministry's big and important work will also be to carry out education, preparation and continued co-operation with local self-government units. In fact, the law is good when applied and such a law must live in practice. It's really a quality bill, but it's a foundation for now. What's next is to build solid walls and then a stable roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9554	Thank you. Next on the list, honourable MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9555	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I am pleased that today we are promoting the 2009 law, i.e. In 2010, the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment, which is otherwise the result of human activities and free to call noise a environmental polluter. I'm glad we realized that noise can cause a certain kind of danger. I say – a certain kind of danger, because the adverse effects of noise on people and on animals are evident, especially if noise is continuous, and harassment or interference of people from noise is increasingly common. Of course, this frequency has to do with the time we live in, because as we can see for ourselves, there are many changes in society. One such change is the migration of the population from the village to the cities, and it also causes other changes, such as the density of population in the cities themselves, i.e. urban environments. This leads to further increases in traffic in these same environments, which cause more noise. This causes a further increase in the number of catering facilities, which also increase noise, etc. All this is not in agreement with spatial plans and there are certain problems. Because of the increase in noise and the EU itself, i.e. Europe has major problems, so a quarter of Europe's people suffer from physical, mental and emotional health disorders, and every seven citizens of Europe have sleep disorders. If we're talking about stress, we shouldn't talk too much about it, given that the stress that causes noise, especially the extreme and current, sudden noise, and we ourselves were able to see what the consequences of it were in 1999 when it was bombing, and we were able to see then that this height of stress did not bypass us as humans or animals. Of course, Serbia must keep pace with time. This law is a logical move by the government to refer this law to the National Assembly, to propose a law like this and that it be adopted here and the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law, which clearly promotes the previous, and supports it. Since the law is very large and talks about many noise causes, I would refer to municipal or general noise, which is the biggest problem especially in urban areas. Every local self-government that represents agglomeration has an obligation to make strategic noise maps. These strategic maps of noise are quite complex and I wouldn't talk much about them, their making takes a year and more days, but it's much more important the other one, which is that after local self-government they need to make some action plans with noise protection measures. That's what maybe we should throw the accent at and what might solve the problems that our citizens face every day. Of course, if this law is fully implemented. Although traffic is one of the main, as we heard, environmental pollutants with noise, citizens tend to complain about the noise of catering facilities. First of all, I would refer to that segment. It is unorthodox that when noise monitoring is carried out at a specific location, the results of this monitoring are not in line with what the citizens themselves hear who live in that location, so that we have many citizens living in certain residential communities, or residential buildings located next to the catering facilities and hear certain noises and cannot use their space for what they are used for, to sleep, etc. So they have some problems, there's noise monitoring going on, and nothing changes, and it doesn't last one day, but it lasts from week to week, or year. That's where we need to pay attention, and I think this law and that sort of thing will work out. Every city knows exactly who makes the noise and knows exactly when that noise will happen and it's true whether that noise will stop or not and the citizens have lived with it for years, as I said. Also, there are other cases, and there we have to be correct, that many catering facilities don't make noise, but we have unconscious citizens who call on certain inspection services, who come to the scene and ask for that noise to be measured, this measurement has to be costing, and it has to be the owner of that facility to pay, and it's right, so we have such problems, too, so the owners of these facilities have problems as regards the citizens themselves. I hope by applying this law that we will soon vote these remarks to be as small as possible with this law implementation of situations like this I don't think there will be. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in a day to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9556	Thank you. I give the word to the honourable MP Ugljeshi Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9557	I thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that today we have a law on noise protection, for one reason I think this problem is ever more present, especially when we are talking about densely populated urban environments. My fellow predecessors have already said in the previous period what noise it is, which is its definition, what it affects, what side effects it can leave for children and for older ones. I think when we talk about a problem like this, we need to approach first of all on one practical side. As someone who comes from Belgrade and who is besides being the MP and head of the MP group of the Old Town, and how I am familiar with this problem and, Minister, given the previous function you have performed as president of the GO Sava Venec, and how I am convinced that you too know perfectly what noise is for the citizens of Belgrade. It is more and more present today, due to certain construction works, thank God that there are more and more, renovations and adaptations of apartments, but what is, in fact, to the most extent, the Belgrades and other residents of other cities in Serbia is the problem, is precisely the noise that comes from the catering facilities and which is uncommonly to a certain extent and intensity above the one prescribed. We've had, in fact, we still have a law that was passed since 2010. I think that, especially when we talk about Belgrade, until the outbreak of the pandemic, Belgrade was especially considered a metropolis living 24 hours a week. I think we need to find a balance between Belgrade never sleeping and that people who live and work in Belgrade can have a chance to have a peaceful dream so that in the morning they can go on their work assignments, and on the other hand, our children, our youngest, can have a certain quality dream that, as we have heard, Dr. Ivkovic has already talked about, can quite affect their future. The law has so far been legally-formally covered, however, in practice, I believe it has shown some shortcomings. In the first place, I think, when we talk about catering facilities, which is what the citizens used to call first, of course, not citizens, to know every law, to call the police, to get information from the police to report to the municipal militia. Neretko, in certain cases, these catering facilities that are not located in residential communities, i.e. outside the residential communities, were able and could work a completely different time interval than the catering facilities located in residential communities. Therefore, the municipal militia already has no jurisdiction there, because such facilities can work uninterrupted after 24 hours, or weekends and after one hour in the morning. Generally, citizens would suspect that someone was behind such objects, that someone was protecting them, and that that's why they couldn't get support from competent institutions, and in fact, we were coming to a legal void that it was actually an environmental inspection that dealt with the measurement of noise. On the other hand, the environmental inspection could not adequately respond to all these requirements, not because it simply, badly did its job, but because of the territory of the city of Belgrade, but because it did not have enough people to respond to all these requirements. Then we came to a vacuum where people, citizens, couldn't do both the short and the long term so easily to solve the problem they faced, and this problem daily affected the quality of their lives. Anyway, I think it's a good thing we have a bill like this today. I'm glad to have it back on those strategic maps, that is, acoustic zoning. I especially want to commend and point out, just for all of these reasons, the higher jurisdiction is given to the municipal militia, when we talk about the possibility of measuring noise in the catering facilities. I would have here a small suggestion from the Minister for you, as far as I can see from Article 26(3), the Minister is closer to enforcing the conditions that a municipal militant should meet so that he can do the tasks of measuring noise, that these conditions are not on the one hand, or that the educational profile of municipal militants should be respected, so that we do not, in a certain way, tie our hands and limit the number of municipal militiamen that would then be able to measure that noise, which is why we would come back practically in terms of the same point at which we have been so far. I also want to point out one phenomenon that is ever more present. In a conversation with, as with their elderly and elderly, but also with other residents of Belgrade, it has been noted that, since each of them has been dealing with this problem for a long time, so those people themselves have come to some knowledge, certain phenomena have been observed that are more pronounced and have shown their effects, especially in the pandemic and at times when we had measures to limit the work of catering facilities, and in fact, what is it about. First, I will quote Article 26 of the first position, which says that measuring noise comes from catering facilities next to an authorised legal entity that meets the prescribed conditions can be done by a municipal militia officer. Why am I saying this? It is defined here that it is the catering facilities, and what is the phenomenon and what is happening more and more, that such objects open companies that have the right status d.o.o. in one location, and with exposures, so to speak, in another location where there is actually a discotheque or a practically observable catering facility which is legally-formally registered as a retail facility, has a fiscal register, can sell drinks, not fall under jurisdiction. And this new law will not fall under the jurisdiction of the municipal militia, the environmental inspection, but they actually fall under the jurisdiction of a market inspection that cannot measure noise and thus cannot plan this problem. Why does it say that this is the problem, especially in the pandemic? Because some of these facilities, the minister, even ended up in the paper, as a successful action of the municipal militia, which was, however, but the municipal militia that would write them a penalty for disrespecting the measures, or working outside the working time that was at the time of the crisis and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to reduce the causes caused by the pandemic, they shot down such penalties in court for the reason that this working time did not just apply to retail facilities that they were able to do at that time. In the end, it would all end up being that natural persons in the facility would pay a mandate for disrespecting the physical distance, or not wearing protective masks. I believe that this article could stand next to catering facilities and any other object that produces noise, which has a negative impact on the protection of the environment in its immediate environment. I think that would allow the very municipal militia to sanction such objects on the one hand, to protect all citizens, and on the third hand to protect all those hosts in a safe way by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, to do business and deal with security, respecting what we, as a legislative authority, are also bringing what you, as an executive in this case, have proposed and proposed laws, struggle to accept and coordinate here. I think that in the next period we should respect these examples. I am absolutely in favour of the city of Belgrade remaining a city that lives 24 hours, seven days a week, but from the perspective of Belgrade's and other residents of other towns in Serbia, we are talking about cities because to the most extent they have a noise problem, they can have a normal life and a normal quality of their lives. In any case, with this serious approach, as you have shown, this bill shows that we are taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SPS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9558	I thank the honourable MP, Ugljesi Markovic for his presentation. Next on the list, representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9559	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the provisions of this bill on noise protection, which we are discussing today, are applied to a significant extent, it will make life easier for a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Hundreds of thousands of people in this country are occasionally or constantly threatened by noise, primarily by traffic noise and noise from catering facilities. The state objectively does not have some great opportunity when it comes to protecting residents from noise from traffic, except for the setting up of these protective fences. When it comes to protecting the population from noise coming from catering facilities, everything depends on one factor, on the goodwill of the state and the goodwill of local self-government. The bill confirms that there is good will in the Serbian government, that there is a good will for the minister to solve this problem, now it remains only to prove that good will in practice. This responsibility lies primarily on units of local self-government, and on people who run municipalities and cities and who are obliged to protect their citizens from excessive noise. Rarely, towns in Serbia, more colleagues have talked about it, where there are no specific catering facilities that harass citizens, who are being harassed by the neighbourhood with too much noise. Here I was talking a month ago about the Great Plan that I come from, where on the main street we have three, four catering facilities that have been harassing the entire neighborhood with loud music for years in the weekend. One of the basic human rights is the right to privacy, and the right to have peace in his house, in his apartment, that he can rest whenever he wants, that he can listen to music whenever he wants, that he can sleep whenever he wants. We have something quite the opposite here, a few people, and we've heard that this is the case in many other cities, several people, literally dictates when several thousand people go to sleep, even choose the kind of music they have to listen to. You, when you have across the street from the apartment or house, some catering facility, whose owner throws speakers into the summer garden or the windows, turns to the end, the only thing you can do is close the door and windows, and turn up the TV. You practically have to deal with some jerk, who doesn't care about his neighborhood. Although loud music, from catering facilities, which is heard two miles away, the school example of public order and peace violations, is mostly not intervened by police, with reasons that it is not in their jurisdiction. However, that is not true, the Law on Public Order and Peace, Articles 3, 7, 19 and 20, I think I have well remembered, prescribe that any noise that threatens the population, which endangers the environment, and even noise from catering facilities, is an example of public order and peace violations and police are required to intervene. However, police transfer responsibility, transfer the ball to the yard of municipal inspections. The communal inspection again has its hands tied for reasons, which the municipal inspection is not authorized to measure noise levels. The communal inspection comes, finds that there's too much loud music, writes a report, when the case comes to court, the court rejects the application for reasons why the municipal inspection has no evidence that the noise was above the allowed limit. This bill suggests an excellent solution and it is the best part of this law, which is the establishment of a municipal police force in all municipalities. When this bill is passed, and I hope that this will happen tomorrow, the municipal militia, the municipal militia, the municipal militia will have the authority to take measures against the proud owners of cafes and other catering facilities, will have the right to measure the volume of noise, will have the right to take away speakers and other music devices that produce noise and will have the right to launch an initiative for the temporary closure of such catering facilities. Now, in order to form a municipal militia, there is the necessary assistance from the Serbian government, namely the Serbian government must give consent to the employment of new officials and the finance ministry must grant funds for these people to receive salaries. Under the Community militia law, in order for a local self-government to form a municipal militia, it must form, as a special service. That service must have its own chief and must have at least three officers. In that sense, the Municipality of the Great Plan will address the Serbian government, with a request to allow us to employ three municipal militants and to grant us funds for their salaries. We will also ask the Serbian government to allow us to employ several municipal inspectors, for what reasons. The Municipality of the Great Plan had permanent staff of six municipal inspectors and five directors 12 years ago, meaning a total of 11 officials. Today, the municipality has one inspector, three directors and one intern, due to retirement and because of the Law on Employment, practically municipal inspection fell to one official, and the size of jobs has doubled, because the Great Plan today, and the Great Plan 10 years ago, are objectively not the same municipalities. Thanks to good policy, primarily to the economic policy of the Serbian government, thanks to the Republic President's policy of responsibility, thanks to the municipality's management policy, the Great Plan is developing significantly. Ten such larger residential buildings have been built, a dozen factories have been opened, some of them employ a dozen, but we have about two that employ about 150 people and each day generate certain communal problems that need to be solved. An increased number of jobs have contributed to increasing population standards, people are buying more cars, and now we already have a problem, not just parking, but a problem with getting into town, a problem with getting out of town, at the time of the biggest traffic jams, in the morning of 3 hours, when people are leaving work, etc. All of these are some indicators, that this request we make to the Serbian government is justified and I expect understanding on this issue and expect a positive answer. As I was saying, the bill is good, but there are two minor objections and I will bring them here, Article 18, paragraph 1. A legal person who is the owner, i.e. the user of the source of the noise, is required to ensure the measurement of the location before placing the source of the noise, to obtain a report on the measurement of the noise of the authorised professional organisation and to bear the costs of those measurements, and to carry out professional protection measures, as appropriate, in accordance with this law. What does this mean in practice? So when someone opens a coffee shop, or a catering facility, they have to bring in an authorized agency, measure noise levels, and then set up a limiter, some limiter, which will make it impossible for the same facility to transmit noise beyond the allowed limit, but here questions are asked what are we going to do with objects that are already working? I think it's a good solution whether with this bill of law the catering facilities that are already working leave some reasonable deadline, 2, 3 or 5 months and they carry out this initial measurement. For what reason? For the reason that under this bill they will practically be bound only in the summer of 2024, and Article 23 of Article 1 says – regular, periodic measurement of noise in the environment, the operator of an object that emits noise, the owner, or the user of the noise source, does it once in 3 years. I think this is too rare and if we really want order in this area to be put in place, to protect Serbia's citizens from excessive torment from catering facilities, I think the owners of these facilities should commit themselves to measuring at least once a year. Regardless of these shortcomings, I believe that the law is good, and the best that the law contains is that now this noise will be dealt with by the municipal militia, which will have the right to, as I said, take away devices that emit excessive noise. In the end, I want to point out that neither this discussion nor this law is directed against all the caterers, but against those arrogant caterers who harass their neighbors and who harass most of the other caterers who are honestly responsible for their work, who do not broadcast loud music, and are not harassing the neighborhood, so that the adoption of this law is also in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9560	Thank you. The next on the list is the popular MP Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9561	The esteemed chairman and distinguished minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, noise is every unwanted and unpleasant sound that causes stress to the whole body and, when it lasts longer, its adverse effects are greater. This unpleasant sound can directly affect human health, both hearing hearing and other organs, causing sleep disorder, irritability, fall in concentration, chronic exhaustion, anxiety loss of immunity. Chronic noise leads to stressful reactions, leading to a rise in blood pressure, glucose and lipids, and these changes lead to rapid onset of coronary heart disease. Childhood noise causes troublesome blood pressure in the mature. Belgrade has been having problems with noise for years and not only with sources of noise coming from catering facilities, but also highways passing the settlements, and this law will make it more effective to fight with unconscious citizens, owners of such catering facilities. By entering the field, the municipal militia will be able to measure the level of noise with an adequate apparatus, and when determining that the amount of noise exceeds the level allowed, the owner will be warned, but if not, protection measures will be expressed. One of them is the prescribed penalty or confiscation of apparatus or instruments that produce an illicit noise level. The fine prescribed for such an offence is 150,000 dinars, with the possibility of temporary or long-term closure of the facility. A law that will have established limit values, as well as transparency of information, a law which also implies punishing other companies that broadcast noise, such as "Serbia's Roads", if construction of highways does not set up protective fences in parts through which the highway passes by a populated town or health care facility. A law that is in line with the laws of the European Union, which says that Serbia is going through progress and that such laws clearly say that Serbian citizens are our first priority. Today, 21 years later, after October 5th, the next day, it was clear to the people that he was played, deceived, and that the cover for bringing those who proved their destruction, destroying the country was a personal gain. And nothing changed after 21 years about you. With the full mouth of democracy you spit out everything that is Serbian, everything that is Serbian progress, even declaring Serbs a genocide people. The Serbian people with you don't need an enemy on the outside. As hatred for Serbs is the only policy of some beyond Serbia's borders, so hate for you is the only programme of your parties, calling for destruction and unrest is the only thing you know. You have to learn that only the election result is the only solution to coming to power, it makes no sense for you to have no censorship. I think it's humiliating for you, too, but you won't admit it, because you know that much of Serbia won't vote for you, except for a false elite who supports the swearing of someone's mother. Strangely enough, that fake elite never gave me that picture, but well, they're still elite, though, fake. You must tell this people that they will never meet you on October 6th, because it will never dawn, because in the dark and in the lies you are the easiest to kidnap 619m euros. What did you do for Serbia? That's a straight line with you. And as Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic says -- everything that's been made, built, restored in Serbia, you gentlemen won't even be able to paint. Dear Minister, I wish you good luck in your work and as long as you are the topic of attacking those whose wallet is first in line, make sure you work for Serbia's well-being, all of us who are first in charge of Serbia with our Serbian President Alexander Vukic. In the day to vote, of course I will support the bill, as well as my parliamentary group Alexander Vukic – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9562	Thank you. Next on the list is honorary colleague Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9563	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, is before us today the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Noise and the objectives of this important law are multiple. On the one hand, aimed at the process of harmonising the legal act with the European Union directives, and on the other, at achieving all the necessary and significant processes to improve the noise protection system in the environment in the Republic of Serbia. And this proposal really clearly shows the government's intention and resolute ministry to ensure that environmental protection is high priority, as Prime Minister Brnabic said in her exposé when forming the government. Your Ministry and you, Minister, have done a lot for environmental protection since you've been at the head of the Ministry. Don't look back on the attacks of these former mob-tycoon cartel representatives, when they honor you for not putting the topic of environmental protection where it belongs today. We can all remember what their representatives were doing as they headed the ministry and how they robbed both the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of the ministry at the time, to provide money to finance the former DS and to secure money for their pockets. Then, under the action "Let's Clean Serbia", they cleaned the Republic of Serbia's budget for millions of euros, and they didn't clear a single dump until 2012. Certainly, our theme of environmental protection is the basic priority, as was our primary priority in 2012 to implement fiscal consolidation measures in order to provide our citizens with new highways, new schools, new hospitals, new institutes and everything else, but what I talked about at some previous sessions is that we have recently been facing certain green movements that cannot be considered green movements today, but are simply hiding behind that name, and are directly under the batons of certain political parties that are struggling to enter power again, to sit in chairs again to rob Serbian citizens. They justify this, and it is precisely the fabricated lie that has been used only by lies since 2012 in order for the Serbian Progressive Party to respect the good things that we do that Serbian citizens have more confidence in movements lately than in political parties and that citizens in a certain degree are fed up with political parties, but then I have to ask the question to those green movements – how is it possible in June 2020 that the Serbian Progressive Party and the list Aleksandar Vucic will win over 60% of the votes? That's because we trust our citizens, and citizens are only looking at the results we've made since 2012. These green movements that are still called - the green jihad, they will only serve lies and serve all the negative ones to mask all the bad things that the former regime has done until 2012. They will call for protests, they will call for demonstrations, they will call for everything violently only to manage to minimize those of our results that all Serbian citizens see, which is that by the end of the year we will be able to start or finish nine highways, today we have three coves of hospitals, today we have a 560-euro salary, today the minimum earnings are twice as high as in their time. What are those green moves doing? These green movements go to Brussels, go to foreign embassies to get support not for their policy, but for the policy of opposition parties that destroyed this Serbia by 2012. You, the minister and your ministry, were respected by the problem of Vince. That problem, Vince, is a 70-year-old problem. Then why haven't these experts solved this problem since 2000, Vince, but they honor us? Then they bring people from the European Parliament to this same Vinci, but they bring people, not experts, to bring people who openly advocate Kosovo's independence. Directly from the Vinca dump, the same European representatives are taking "N1" to call for Kosovo's independence there. When they see that this is not working, they invite their like-minded to attend demonstrations and protests. And, they go to the protests, go to Brankov Bridge, lock up Brankov Bridge, hold people, hold families and their children in cars for two hours to talk, not about environmental issues, but to talk all the worst against Alexander Vukic and against the Serbian Progressive Party. They don't only have support from Europarliamentaries, they don't have support from foreign embassies, they also have support from certain media, and these media are now tycoon media and we have to call certain things a real name. They will constantly convince you that there is no media freedom here in Serbia, and I will inform the citizens that from 2012 on Serbian territory the media "N1", "Nova S", "Euronews" opened. If you look, both "N1" and "New S" do not support what Aleksandar Vukic does, they do not support what SNS, ministers, MPs do. You were able to see the worst insults on their portals every day at the expense of Vladimir Orlic and Sandra Christmas and Aleksandr Martinović and at your expense, Minister, but mostly at the expense of Alexander Vukic and his family. Here, yesterday we saw new attacks on Minister Sinisha Malloy. They start to make lies that are completely recycled. They're starting to re-implement the mantra they conducted a few years ago, to accuse Minister Malo of having some real estate, but it's not the goal of accusing Sinisha Mali. The goal is ultimately to accuse Alexander Vukic. These 24 apartments, which they mention, so they can multiply them today with both 10 and 100, and they can say that Sinisa Mali has 2,400 apartments, but the theme of these attacks is to protect the marifettes of Dragan Dilas, to protect himself as he acquired an enormous wealth while he was mayor of Belgrade, as he managed the "Multigroup", and in this same "Multigroup" today both Marinika Tepic and Slavisa Nikezic and his Bojan Bjelic, the former city manager who was accused of misusing the situation during the renovation of Duke Stepa and all others who were with him at the top of the Belgrade government. What's the big deal? It is important, as I said, that it is not revealed that Dragan Gilas planted 68 million in 17 accounts in the white world, where the difference of up to 619 million is, from today to Dragan Gilas, 22m euros only in properties he reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency. How is it possible that none of us here 180 have one percent of that 22 million? How did you get 22 million? By being an exceptional entrepreneur in the Czech Republic, you reported 70,000 euros in savings and an old car, and that was all you started and then a few years later you came to start a political party and that you and your megaphone Marinika Tepic were driving around Serbia cars of 100,000 euros. That's the darkness. This is the topic of masking the crime of those who destroyed Serbia by 2012. But the central theme is to accuse Alexander Vukic again. Unfortunately for them, I have to tell them that Alexander Vukitch doesn't have any bills in the white world because he's not interested in getting rich. It is his interest that this Serbia progresses, to be prosperous, to have higher salaries and pensions. Do not use every day new and new lies to dehumanize the Vukic family with the ultimate goal of bringing down Alexander Vukic, to return to power, to return to your chairs to make millions, to sell Serbian citizens, to sell people in Kosovo and Metohija because you see only profit in it. You're saying 24 apartments came out of some Pandora's paper, and is there in those Pandora's papers how Vuk Jeremic got $200,000 from Qatar? Does the Pandora's papers say that Patrick Ho and Lozo were paying him 5.3 million, out of which 1.3 million at the expense of his PR agency? It certainly doesn't say, but even if it did, you wouldn't mention it. Does it say in those papers that Dragan Gilas used his "Multigroup" to directly co-operate with city enterprises and city institutions and thereby use his mayoral position in the most harsh way until 2012? But you don't attack from the opposition, you who don't have 3% support today, so you call on all the Europarliamentaries to come here, to give you some decree, that perhaps that decree states that his Majesty Dragan Gilas is in power today, although he has no support for his citizens. You're looking for help in the white world, but you can't get it because these Europarliamentaries saw what dilettantes they're dealing with here. People came to us, told us what to do, you left these negotiations and blamed Alexander Vukic again for his failure, which gave you the opportunity to negotiate election conditions. And when did the SNS negotiate election conditions during Boris Tadic? No one wanted to see us as the largest opposition party, talk about anything, at least about election conditions. But apart from Cynthia Malloy, we have another mountain and one more hysterical campaign that's been going on for the last few days, and that's what they call the Joanette affair. It's not that, gentlemen of the opposition, of the Joanette affair. There's no affair here. This is a court case conducted before the courts, and it is your need to attack Alexander Vukic, Andrej Vukic and his family, and that is why you call it an affair. And you know what's much worse than that? Because it's a proven lie. That's not what I'm saying, that's not what SNS MPs say, that's what the Court of First Instance said when the expert who finished his third year of high school in August, when his grades were 2 and 3, proved and testified by the Court of First Instance, when he lost directly to Andrej Vukic. Not that Andrej Vukic had not heard from anyone in the case "Jovanjica", he didn't even see himself, and Miroslav Aleksic continues with his lies, and that only shows that there is a noticeable hysteria in the opposition's ranks, that hysteria is noticeable in the ranks of tycoons and mobsters. Do you know why? Because very soon the whole truth will be learned -- who he worked for, who he worked with, who he was with, who he was with, who he was with by foreign agents and certain foreign embassies with the aim of destroying Alexander Vukic. Aleksandar Vucic gave a good statement a few days ago, which is that there is a sense of hysteria in certain lines, especially in certain media, and I would call them tycoon media and among certain police officers because soon all things concerning the "Jovanjica" affair will be learned. They all thought together that the affair was well packed and that the people would accept it. The people won't accept it because they saw what you were doing and when we talk about Sinisha Malo and when we talk about Andre Vukic and when we talk about the children of Alexander Vukic. You just enforce the politics of hysteria and hate. The hatred was also seen in Novi Sad, when Borislav Novakovic's son broke the SNS City Committee just because he disagrees with SNS policy. Which one of you from the opposition condemned the attacks on the mother of Alexander Vukic, who was carried out by Mark Vidojkovic on the tycoon media "New S"? Well, no one. That's your goal. You can't win in Serbia based on a political programme. You can't win by the will of the citizens. You can only win by making new and new lies every day aimed exclusively at Alexander Vukic and his family, but Serbian citizens know who works for their country, who builds highways, schools, hospitals, who do not agree to the blackmail of foreigners to put their country's interests above all else, who defends their people in Kosovo and Metohija. Citizens are very well aware of who distributed this country, who gave independence to the ethnic Albanians today in Pristina and who sold Kosovo and Metohija for shoulder-touching at foreign embassies. Most importantly, citizens know very well who destroyed the citizens while filling their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9564	Thank you, dear colleague Dejan Kesar. Next on the list is Parliament of People's Parliament Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9565	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on protection against noise in the environment. The main objective of the adoption of a new law on noise protection in the environment is to fully bring this area in line with the European Union directives. Given that the problem of noise is increasingly present and that noise in the environment can pose a risk to human health, the European Union adopted a directive on the assessment and management of noise in the environment in 2002. The Republic of Serbia partially transposed the obligations of the directive into its legislation by adopting a law on noise protection in the environment in 2009. The proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment regulates this area in a coherent, comprehensive and concise manner so that it contains nine chapters. The basic provisions of the law define the subject matter of the law. The noise to which the law applies is noise to which people are exposed in built areas, public parks, quiet areas of anglomeration, quiet zones outside the settlement, but also near schools, hospitals and noise-sensitive zones. Exemptions from the application of the law shall be prescribed. Thus, the law does not refer to noise created in the workplace, in the means of transport, noise from neighbouring households, military activities, domestic and wild animals, as well as sound advertising of the bell of religious objects. The noise protection entities represent all levels of government from units of local self-government, through an autonomous province, to a republican level, or to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is very important to stress that this law defines and measures but also the conditions of noise protection. Prevention measures are seen in spatial, urban and acoustic planning, and the conditions of noise protection are indicators of noise and limit values. Also, this law provides for strategic maps of noise and action plans to improve our environment in the coming period. Personally, I'm very glad that this is another one of the laws that we bring into the field of environmental protection, because the environment isn't something that belongs to us, it's something that we've borrowed from future generations. And while the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, strives to improve every segment of our society, starting with major infrastructure projects, roads, railways, hospitals, bringing foreign investors, individuals of the wrongdoers of our society are making every effort to degrade the president of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our entire society. To them is the way the political struggle is to curse the mother of President Aleksandar Vukic, the most monstrous insult of the president's children, to invent the most disgusting lies about the president, but also about his family, about every honorable and honest member of the SNS. It's not decent Serbia. The competent citizens of our Republic also see the progress of society, see that unemployment is reduced, see new jobs, know that they have a secure health system that is indeed a lionic struggle at this point against the crown of the virus. The competent citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have millions of euros hidden around the world as their boss, Dragan Gilas. Their only goal is to bring down decent society, so they can re-emerge state money into their private accounts all over the world. And those who don't have a program don't have a political vision, and representatives are brilliant twins, those who barely finished high school with an average of two comas, give themselves the right to comment on any of us. The boycott of the election is their excuse, because they are also aware that their 3% censorship is very high, unattainable, almost as Alexic and average at school. Their way of political struggle is cursing, insulting and lying. Our way of political struggle is Serbia's progress and citizens recognize it very well, pointing to our confidence in the elections. It is because of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of the great majority that has given us confidence, but also because of citizens whose trust we still need to gain results, that we must try to do even more and even better. And this law that we are discussing today is another step in the progress of modern and stable Serbia and orderly, as its citizens deserve. Therefore, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the voting day, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9566	Thank you. I thank all those who participated in the first part of the session and Minister Vujovic for her participation. We'll continue after the break. Resumption is at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9568	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, we have before us a law that systematically regulates the area of the environment in the area of noise in the environment. I'm not inclined, at the very beginning to say, to repeat myself in my discussions with my distinguished colleagues who in the first part of the session quite, to say, have elaborated different parts of the law itself. The reason for the adoption is primarily related to Directive 2002/49/EC3 and compliance with European legislation. I'd talk a little bit from another angle, to say the least, but I'm going to touch one piece in any case and the reasons for the adoption of this law, which is primarily about peace and conditions of protection against noise in the environment and sound protection. First of all, in the context of preventive protection measures that you have stated here are related to the area of planning for construction, and in that the measures and conditions of noise protection are provided in spatial and urban plans and, in particular, the spatial layout of infrastructures, industrial, residential, recreational and other facilities, as well as acoustic zoning and setting out specific regimes for the use of these areas. Now this sounds quite professionally and of course that people in this area who wrote this law and all who understand themselves in the context of environmental protection and noise measurements know about everything that this means, but in order to try to bring this topic closer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transmission and to make this debate in part, more interesting in the context and the debate in question, I would refer to an example that is extremely important for Serbia, for Belgrade, which is just defining what I was saying in the opening part on preventive measures. I would primarily talk about the project "Belgrade on Water" which is certainly both visual and marketing, but also in life terms as a new settlement, a new Belgrade, a new Serbia, and represents one visualisation of the new vision of Serbia, which Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic presented in April 2012 in the general election campaign, where he was through one vision and a positive campaign that was built on two concepts, one was on the project "Belgrade on Water", we all remember when the former mayor of Giuliani came with President Vukic, when they drove around Sava and showed the never-seeing spaces that had grown into weeds and where we had old ones, etc. And those midwives and all that junk that's been piling up for years. To remind ourselves that all citizens of the city of Belgrade who were primarily, let me say, addressed where they were staying in the streets that were across the street today across from "Beograda on water" who had been looking forward to years, decades, to do something about how much the vision and announcement of this project was important and the confirmation of the support that we received at that time in the elections was not only significant, but it was imperative to do so. Now that we're talking about vision, in order to achieve political jargon, to say, either in political life or in political work credibility, you have to do something about your vision, to be very simple, to materialize that vision. And now one of the two pillars of the policy that Aleksandar Vucic represents in the campaign, one was the office for a quick response, a one-stop shop system that is very successful today in various segments and the other was the "Beeding on Water" Project, which is all that I am a symbol of the development of new Serbia, new Belgrade and everything else. On the other hand, as much as it was written and talked about the project and as much as it was represented not only marketingly and it was written of both good and bad and there was a lot of resistance, in the very beginning the support of the realization of the project was not more than 20% of the citizens of Belgrade, and that now over three quarters of the Belgrade citizens alone would not only support, but every day consume in some way everything they could in a recreational and other sense implement during their lives, walking through promenades and using other contents. "Belgrade on Water" is not a project that is elitist, which is a project of a residential and business space that you can see in the more developed centres of Europe, in their capitals, and where you have settlements that are closed or semi-closed. The settlement is used not only by Belgraders, but by all citizens of Serbia and many from the region first come to "Belgrade on Water". Why am I now talking about "Belgrade on Water", and in the context of the noise story? I'm talking about this because there's been a new settlement down there, but there's no new city that integrates with the old part of the city, and we still have some segments, given that the project is developing phasely, the infrastructure from the last period. Since we have been able to look at some political work of our political rivals in the past, that generally green agenda is becoming the dominant in their discourse, I must say that I have noticed that there are double arches there. They are essentially ready to locate certain problems that exist within the Belgrade city's organisation, but also if they don't like something on the other hand, they are willing to apply a double archina in all of this. Here, I'm going to give an example, which is the old Sava Bridge, which has its symbolism, has its value, but in the context of the development of the city in the new settlement "Belgrade on Water", absolutely and in every sense the words no longer have any useful value and can't answer how life's, so traffic, so on the needs of life on this move, and I'm not just talking about the "Belgrade on Water" move and new residential-business facilities, but I'm also talking about all the streets that are around - Karajordjevo, Gavril Principe, etc. That's where we get the noise. This bridge, as everyone walks along the promenade, comes to us tourists, Belgrade's mass walk every day and you can't pass on weekends, that bridge creates a huge amount of noise that spreads in the concentration circles and on the streets in the old part of Belgrade - Karadjordjevo, Gavril Principe and many others. That noise is huge. However, these environmentalists, they have a counter-approach and they say there is no noise and they generally advocate that the bridge remains there. But, on the other hand, they have an objection to other positions where that noise or where the environment is threatened, to point it out. Gentlemen dear, an archaic - one pattern, in that kind of story is something that is necessary. This move that we can already use is significantly smaller than anything that will be built again in the future, because that move that goes there on May 25th, then a line park that goes towards the Pančeva Bridge on one side or a merger from the new "Gallery" shopping centre to the fair, and further towards Adi Giganlia, a space for walking, for recreation, in one move, I can freely say that it will be bigger than anywhere in Europe. This area is not used by people living downstairs in a new settlement or a new part of the city, but is used by everyone and is necessary for these very reasons. I am therefore pleased that the city architect, Mr. Marko Stojčić, has announced that next year the Old Sava Bridge will be decommissioned, in some parts cut, preserved and in any case in a certain way after being used for other purposes, which can satisfy this kind of fact which implies that everything that once represented Belgrade and that bridge, that we will be able to present in a certain way, not in a location which is a vessel of housewives in traffic, in life and in any other sense. For this reason, I think it's extremely important, as I said at the very beginning, how you're going to design the development of a city. We see that Serbia's infrastructure is expanding in every way, if we talk about road infrastructure alone, we see that all standards are established in terms of these sound walls or obstacles that noise could not be heard in surrounding settlements, houses, which are near highways, construction of other roads, fast roads, etc. If I refer to this project again, in order to be very clear, then we see that in that part of the settlement we will have the removal of the bus station. In the place where today's bus station will be built new schools, "Belgrade on Water" is a project where the state has 35% of its ownership participation, so to speak, the private partner has 65%, and all, what is as a new value, as a new vision and today a successful project that is growing rapidly and faster and faster, which is the largest construction site in this part of Europe, shows that both well planned and in the context of noise well planned, but there is now a new bridge that will have four lanes, where pedestrians can cross, we will have a new bike-walk bridge on another route, etc. Simply, in every part of Belgrade, things are being planned that will go that way for noise to shrink more and more. In that context, I would say about everything that we're being attacked about building a subway that they first said would not work, and then that after we've already come into the position that we have today and where we're going to go, that we're building a subway in the context of noise reduction and that there's a big impact, because a large number of Belgrades and all the others in the future are going to drive a subway, which means that we're going to have a smaller number of vehicles on the streets of Belgrade, and also by building these infrastructure works, the type of new bridge that's going to be in that location, it's just one segment that in a visual and every other sense shows that we're doing well, that and how well we're planning, and what's most important, that when we promise, that when we do something, we do it. In this context, we have lived Serbia, calm, clean and advanced!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9569	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9570	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear fellow Members of the People, the distinguished Vujovic and his associates, the respected citizens of Serbia, there is no doubt that with the noise we have all faced in our lives, when we are tired of returning from work, when in the evening we are awakened by music from a nearby cafe or when the construction site or highway or some bus station is located right next door to our settlement or near our apartment building. The question that is being imposed is what is the bearable limit of these different sounds, noises, noises, that reach us, and what is the bearable limit that does not endanger our health and our dream? Are we potentially closing down a place, a place of work, because of too much music from a bar or from another catering facility? How to determine the limit of tolerance? What are the limits in urban urban areas that do not endanger the health of citizens? Similar topics in the form of solutions and how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Environmental Protection applied in one responsible way when it proposed this law that today lies before us MPs in the House of the National Assembly. It is about harmonising the rules with EU regulations and implementing the 2002 European Directive and, I would say, for the first time, Serbia is dealing with this problem in a comprehensive and meaningful way. No one has dealt with this problem in Serbia for decades. Often this problem was solved by citizens calling the police or the municipal militia, and sometimes these institutions were silent and deafened about citizens' calls. This was also witnessed by citizens of Cetina Street who sought help to solve their problem even in Strasbourg before the European Court of Human Rights. The key objective of this law is how to establish a single system and establish safeguard measures to reduce these adverse effects by human health. A number of scientific research shows that continuous noise can seriously disrupt the general health of individuals, can disrupt their quality of life, social communication, and can certainly endanger human relations. The negative impact of man on noise can lead to various damages, different health problems, from hearing damage, to communication difficulties, and even work environment problems in working efficiency. In a psychological sense, a number of studies have shown that noise also causes long - term consequences seen in reducing tolerance, anxiety, and even aggression. How do you define noise? It's one of the serious terms that defines this law. The noise is defined as any unwanted or unpleasant sound. It causes acoustic stress for the whole organism and noise on the human organism reacts differently depending on the strength of the decibel to which the human organism is exposed. If these decibels are larger, these adverse effects on human health are also greater. The sound can first act on our sense of hearing, but also on other organs, causing those side effects such as sleep disorder, sleep loss, irritability, anxiety, may lead to a fall in immunity in those most extreme cases of blood pressure, to a number of cardio-vascular diseases, and even to various stress reactions of the human body. In previous years, the World Health Organization has warned us of noise and the fact that, apart from the harmful noise in extreme situations, it can also be fatal to people's health and therefore noise protection is a very important environmental issue and it is part of the environmental rights of all Serbian citizens, and I would say a question of particular political interest in which Serbia is currently engaged and is taking into account to ensure, I would say, a better quality of life for all citizens living in the Republic of Serbia and to protect their rights, above all I mean their environmental rights. Most often in urban urban areas, we have this notion – municipal or general noises, which are exposed to people living in urban urban areas and in that narrow human environment. The main sources of noise are different, they can be from traffic. We are aware that if you look at only Belgrade, one family has more cars. At the annual level, we have a very large increase in the number of motor vehicles, trucks and other means of transport. Also, one source of noise can be industry, construction and public works, sports, recreation, numerous manifestations and entertainment and noise coming from catering facilities. It is important that we respond in time, that it is not too late afterwards and it is important that we implement and apply all those positive experiences in our laws from developed EU countries, which have managed this problem in an adequate way. This law, in its essence, implements the 2002 EU directive and is one of the most important parts of this law. It is also important that we learn something from example of good practice, not only to be selective in applying these regulations and that all the burden falls on the owners of catering facilities, on the owners of construction companies, on some individuals, but to solve this problem in one system way. It is necessary that the state itself be more actively involved in this problem, that our cities and municipalities develop noise protection plans, acoustic zoning, and that we pay particular attention to both planning and construction. Also, it is necessary to look at how some of the more developed EU countries have come to an end with this problem. It is through this constant measurement and development of noise control plans in their cities that EU countries have requested through the regulatory Member States to build new noise maps every five years, new plans for its management. With this example, Serbia, this law that is before us today at the National Assembly, this law, to remind all fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia, has gone through a public debate where a large number of government organisations have been involved, and the city of Belgrade has been giving its initiatives, which I think is good, to create a common legislative framework for all Serbian citizens, whether they live in a large or small town, in the province or in urban parts of Serbia. It is vital that we have a good and quality legal solution. The draft law defines the notion of noise as I said, an extended list of sources of noise, as well as competent authorities for making strategic maps of noise and action plans. It is arranged that noise protection entities, which are measures and conditions of protection, are allowed access to information on noise, surveillance, but also a number of other issues that go in a good way towards protecting the environment and protecting the health of citizens of Serbia. A good example of making maps and measuring noises, which my fellow MPs have spoken of, we have on the case of the town of Nis, who made a strategic map of noise, but it is necessary that other cities in Serbia go into making such important documents to protect themselves from noise. While I was in high school, XV of Belgrade High School, we had one significant piece as a mandatory lecture on Serbian language teaching, William Fokner "Buk and Rage", where Fokner says in one sentence – life is a fairy tale spoken by an idiot, full of noise and anger, and it means nothing. As much as it means to us, as much as it means to you, it's something that we all need to ask ourselves before we adopt this law, and even when we adopt it, what its implementation will be. How much noise do you face in your neighborhood, in your city where you live? How much noise does it affect your psychophysical health, your quality of life? How much noise interrupts your afternoon vacation? How much trouble do you have in the nighttime noise from a nearby bar? Do you hear any noise from your window if your building, apartment building, is near the highway or railway? How much is the silence? These are all some of the questions that we will be dealing with by monitoring and implementing this law. There is no doubt that we cannot cope quickly with the noise, that it is necessary to include all the responsible persons in the chain of responsibility. First, to base ourselves on this urban planning of our cities and municipalities, to include our cities and general in the making of these acoustic maps and action plans in order to reduce and protect citizens from noise, but also to set greenery along roads by building so-called. vertical walls and barriers to protection against traffic noise. What are the examples and what do the experiences from developed EU countries say? Experiences say this - effective barriers reduce noise levels by five to 10 decibels. This reduces the volume of traffic noise by even half. For example, if we have a noise barrier, then there is a noise reduction of 10 decibels that can produce a truck that goes that way to the sound level of the average car, or if we have wooded, if we have a dense vegetation, if we have a dense growth along our highways, and if the width of that growth, and green vegetation is about 30 meters, such growth and such woodwoods can reduce the noise level by as much as five decibels. The advantage of shaming is not only noise protection but also shaming. We are also fighting to reduce the level of air pollution in our cities. Also, when we look at the experience in the U.S., we come up with data that according to the current U.S. federal regulation, the level of noise in the settlements along the roads must not exceed 65 decibels. Generally, the intensity varies between 70 and 90 decibels on roads and highways. By reducing noise levels by five to 25 decibels through an appropriate selection of acoustic materials and building barriers to a large extent, we can solve this problem in the future. Under a law that is in force in the EU itself, the need to set up a barrier against traffic noise in an area where it comes within a distance of 100 metres where there are four black spots. What does that really mean? This means that noise in four consecutive places is greater than 60 decibels. On the Committee on European Integration, I can indeed testify as a member of this Committee, we have had a really constructive debate, where your co-workers from the Ministry of Environmental Protection have included, and MPs have brought forth a series of problems that we face in municipalities and cities from which we come when it comes to noise. It's organized, like I said, public listening. It is good that the city of Belgrade has also been involved and has made its proposals that have become an integral part of this legal solution. Also, I'd like to say that it's a good thing now that, apart from the inspection and the municipal militia in the local self-government units, they're going to be able to measure and control the noise of the catering facilities. By adopting this law, our communal police officers, our inspectors, will be able to measure the intensity and level of noise on the spot and will immediately be able to express the protective measures of which is one of the most rigorous – taking away the instruments, taking away the apparatus from which music or noise is broadcast. These measures will also go in favour of the citizens, and they will sanction all those blatant hosts who did not respect the regulations. These legal solutions correspond in a good way to the protection of the environmental rights of citizens of Serbia, as well as the needs of the economy, the owners of catering facilities that respect the measure, which are safe, which are not boastful, which respect the official regulations of the Serbian state and of this law that we will adopt and which is on the agenda today. At the very end, I think the best way to establish order in this area, but also to monitor and implement all the good legal solutions and EU directives, in order to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to protect their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9571	Thank you. Next is the People's MP Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9572	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, with fellow Members of Parliament, this law on noise protection and is a very good thing, has been prepared, of course, in the process of harmonising our rules with EU rules and is part of the Green Agenda. I mention this because the previous 2009 Noise Protection Act is not at all in line with EU legislation and this testifies to the dishonest Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic's commitment to Eurointegration, and they are called Euro Integration Champions. They were obviously fake. Therefore, this Noise Protection Act will be fully in line with EU legislation, and full compliance will be achieved through the adoption of a regulation and a series of sublegal acts that will follow after the adoption of this law. Both this law and thousands of other regulations that we have passed in this assembly are just proof that Serbia is no obstacle to EU accession and accession processes, but that back in the year and a half are the problem of political disagreement within the EU regarding further enlargement. As far as this law is concerned, the European Commission has recommended that the Law on Noise Protection, among other things, define many of the concepts of the directive, the famous 2002. Euro EZ 49. So I'm going to mention one important thing to me personally. In 2008, I'm still a candidate for the president of the Old Town Municipality, I wrote and printed this program, in a circulation of 10,000 copies. This programme is divided into the citizens of Old Town, and unfortunately I have to tell the truth, and in 2008, the citizens of Old Town were not interested in this problem of noise, and they did not give this programme majority support, but at that time in 2008 supported Tadic and Djilas's electoral fraud. So this law will improve the system, and these are all very important things to protect against noise, it will establish and achieve measures in the field of noise protection, prevent and reduce harmful facts from noise, of course, to human health, to the environment. They will establish noise values, determine the degree of exposure to noise and create different maps. It will lead to the adoption of different action plans, related to the prevention of noise in the environment. It will provide access to information, since it is part one, to be informationally linked to this new law and to have different databases of information that will track it. It is also important that the united protection prescribed by these laws together provide both the republic and the autonomous province and the City of Belgrade and all other local self-government. Of course, businesses and legal persons and managers and so on. professional expression of the concessionaries of the source of noise, scientific professional organisations and other public services. But when we talk, that's important, about the role of local self-government, which is extremely important, perhaps most important, I'm going to point out a local problem, because it's good to always give some concrete examples. I'm going to say, on Vrakar, on the street of one and in the building where the former mayor Gilas lives, citizens have been complaining about noise for years. So last year in April, Gilas banged in his window for weeks. I've seen the footage and the evidence to the public. They still exist today. I don't know what he wanted to say about it, whether he's hungry, if he doesn't have anyone to cook for himself, because he lives alone, I don't know, but he's definitely been banging on his pots for weeks. So at that time it's another problem in that same building. At that time, Gilas got a cat and a dog, and that dog had been barking and howling for months, while the cat was inconsolably meowing. Of course, the neighbors couldn't close their eyes for months. Fortunately, the cat managed to escape from captivity, and the dog unfortunately committed suicide. As you can see, Gilas is not going to live with a dog or a sword. The third problem, at the same address that lasts for years, is a huge night noise from Gilas' condition. I got the footage from the citizens, it sounds like this. - It's a cell phone playback. Imagine now for hours, this noise has reached the neighbor of Mr. Gilas. Namely, what it's about. Mr. Gilas lives in an apartment of about three acres, I didn't really measure it, but he's in that apartment somewhere, because there's room, there's a Jacuzzi full of ducats, or goldsmiths, and since he lives alone, at night he tends to bathe in gold coins. You remember that Paja Duck. I'm totally serious. In addition, it activates one sounding enormous, like a jukebox bank pig and all that makes a lot of noise, as these gold coins fall on the tiles for hours, making noise, citizens can't sleep. I'm asking the authorities to respond. As for this law and preventive noise protection measures, they also refer to the area of planning and construction, which is very important. Therefore, in spatial and urban plans measures and conditions of noise protection will be provided. When we talk about this noise, about this area of construction, of course it also applies to the destruction of objects. It has, as objects are built, some old objects collapse, remove. So, when we talk about the collapse, there were great results in the collapse and making noise that had the 20-year-old son of the vice president of Jeremic's party, Borislav Novakovic, who was dead in cold but extremely drunk the other day, you will not believe the 30-metre square windows of the SNS premises in Novi Sad, with other huge damage. It is simply that the splinter does not fall far from the stake testifying and the fact that Father Nikola Novakovic, the already mentioned Borislav Novakovic came to an evil voice because he was arrested for establishing a suspicion that from 2007 to 2010, he damaged the town of Novi Sad by 1.3m euros in the reconstruction of the Bulevar of Europe. Senior Novakovic, the Supreme Court in Belgrade, sentenced him to three and a half years in prison for this occasion. As for the noise caused by the vandalism I mentioned, the SNS room, in recent years, and I'm quite serious, that noise is huge, and why? So far, you won't believe it, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, and even in some cases it's burned down over 50 SNS rooms. In the period since Gilas returned to politics, therefore, since early 2018, the number of attacks on SNS has quadrupled. When asked who did all these vandal acts, the clear answer also gives this last vandal act in Novi Sad that I cited. So, in this law, we also have it regulated, that when designing, constructing and reconstructing residential, residential and business facilities, transport infrastructures and industrial facilities, sound protection measures will be implemented in accordance with this law. It is important that noise indicators and acoustic zoning be established on the basis of the purposes of space, reference maps, spatial and urban plans. When we talk about the problem of noise, we're actually talking about sound and acoustics, and this is the law I'm dealing with, and sound and acoustics are usually about physics, engineering and engineering. So the problems of noise protection are essentially dealt with by engineers, e.g. Machines, physicists, technicians. By accident, the technical school of this direction was barely finished in 1996 by Jeremic's genius, vice president, another Miroslav Aleksic. In high school, this Miroslav Alexic at the end of that high school, therefore, something before graduation, went to a 12-year-old. He had seven twos and one unit, so he went to juvie. Luckily, he passed, but mostly he was enough. Now, whether it's enough in politics, I think it's insufficient, but you figure it out yourself. So, that's Jeremy's genius. I mean, let's also remember who our physicist is. Well, Jeremic finished physics in England, and of all physics and mathematics the only knowledge he has in this area is to add up to $7.5 million donated to his NGO and imagine the PR agency and he's a physicist. However, we also have a machine gun. Who's got our machine brain? Well, Gilas graduated from engineering school, even though he never dealt with machinery. His machine brain, of all the mathematics and physics he learned in college, only knows the percentage bill and that's only 80% minus 20%, so minus another 20%. A genius! Gilas, of course, knows how to collect, and only up to 619 million and that euro. So this small, small, small group that I have cited is often gathered around Andric's wedding by harassing the citizens of that street with noise. Thus, in March 2019, Jeremiah Vuk Brankovic, with a loud voice, cried for hours that Vuk Markovic fell by Easter 2019. Since then, just to remind you, it's been two and a half years. Then this little Jeremiah, two years later, with his geniuses that I mentioned, so - sits down one Alexic and Novakovic from Europe's boulevard, in June 2021 this year came back to Andric's wreath, where he said he was going to beat, remember that, President Vukic. The tenants of the surrounding buildings had to close the windows because they wondered how loudly they were whining and little Jeremiah’s kegs. This law sets out perfectly the rights and obligations of legal persons who are owners, i.e. users of the source of noise. This is very important because it also refers to catering facilities, since we have been back decades as one of the biggest problems, especially in urban areas, we have noise coming from catering facilities. This creates all the conjecture to solve these problems in the urban environments of this law. The colleagues mentioned it, of course, is important that the great role in implementing this law will be played by the municipal militia, which needs to be even more numerous, and existing inspections. So we also have criminal provisions. The level of sanctions is in line with the Violents Act. In addition to the fines imposed for the offence, the legal person can be told, now listen to this - and the protective measure of confiscation of cases used or intended to commit an offence, i.e. by committing an offence. I mention this because it's important, because Gilas is usually the legal person who lives in this apartment of three acres, which I mentioned, of his company. So it's possible for the militia to take away these pots that make noise, this huge sound bank pig, and illegally acquired goldsmiths who make noise at night. Also, it has been noted, it is a major communal problem, I think across Serbia, that a year ago, Gilas also owns a particular jukebox called Marinika. He puts a salary in it, and Marinika plays what Gilas wants. It's just that it's old -- as much money, as much music. Therefore, the objectives to be achieved by this Law on the protection of noise in the environment are, and this is significant, to establish and achieve measures in the field of noise protection in order to avoid, prevent or reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health and the environment and to improve the quality of life, which is why we are adopting this law by taking appropriate measures of protection. I would briefly say, and that is very important, that this law, like all the laws we are passing, is just one in a series of successes by President Vukic and, of course, Prime Minister Brnabic, let's just say in the past month. I'll brief some of them. Watch out, Vucic's successes have been in order for weeks ago, and the failures of the enemies of Serbia. Let's remember, the first time Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro suffered a severe defeat when the SPC of Ioanikia was enthroned. Milo Djukanovic portrayed himself as an anti-Serbian extremist who supports crazy committees. Then we had a great success, a visit by Angela Merkel, who honored President Vukic with her farewell visit and, this is very important, announced that Germany is interested in digging lithium, which is otherwise a huge opportunity for Serbia, because German companies can then produce lithium batteries and electric vehicles in Serbia. Next, Gilasovski's opposition suffered a severe defeat in the election talks, when the simply insane behaviour of that part of the opposition was condemned by even the MEPs that Gilas called for to assist him in those negotiations he had run away with. Then Ana Brnabic performed brilliantly in the UN. Afterwards, Vucic has handled the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, caused by extremist Kurti. Simply, Kurti lost face in what he was doing for two weeks, and Serbia won, of course, thanks to President Vukic. Then we had a visit from the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Lian, who spent two days in Serbia, again honoring Vukic for resolving this crisis that I mentioned and promoting the construction of a fantastic railway line between Belgrade and Nis-Macedonian border, which would otherwise be financed by the EU by up to 50%. Then we had a miracle, but it's weird that it caused a lot of attention, but it caused it. Then Colombia gave an interview to our colleague Vlad Djukanovic, which particularly upset the Gilasovci, because their lies also fell apart on the case of Jovanovic. Then a few days ago, President Vukic beat them with his comments on the interview. If not for Gilasovce to be even bigger, Vukic once again beat them by opening the Serbian Pavilion, which is fantastic, in Dubai on Expo 2020. That's the Expo that didn't last year. Vukic then presented a fantastic data from the Ministry of Finance, that absolutely accurate estimates are that this year we will end up with a growth rate greater than 7%, which is practically fantastic under the terms of the pandemic. I'll point out in the end, now this is a serious matter for future thinking, we don't have a covered area of public media pollution. Let's ask ourselves together whether it's media space, whether it's social networks, the Internet, or whether it's television, is it the environment? I say it's part of our environment. However, that part is not regulated by media laws or environmental laws. It's just, it's an area that's somewhere in between. So, of course this is both a global problem and our local one. Globally because the pollution that comes from social networks has become devastating when, for example, we see the outbreak of antivaccinars everywhere in the world, and the local problem is that we in Serbia have toxic media that spreads their kind, almost racial hatred and untruths directed against, for example. 700,000 citizens who are members of the SNS. While we pass one such future modern law, it will be possible to dehumanise all members of President Vukic's family and himself for several years, it will be possible to insult and curse his mother and to glorify the recipients and swearers on the Gilasovski media and it will be possible to satanicise 10% of Serbia's population. Finally, as far as the anti-noise law itself is concerned, I will only mention the lyrics of the popular song "Hands" by Darka Rundek and Kargo orchestra: "Let me play for you, the soul is killed by silence and do not be afraid of noise, what plays is hands. “ Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9573	I thank Mr. Bakarec. Next up is a colleague of Nevenka Kostadinova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9574	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment is one in a series of laws that we have adopted here, which relates to or has to do with the environment in which we all live. This bill is only one of those relating to the harmonisation of domestic legislation with European Union legislation. Given global trends and industrialisation, technological and technical development, an excessive increase in the number of large cities, the problem of noise is becoming increasingly pronounced and poses a risk to human health. Hence, the need to adopt certain directives, and in 2002 the European Union adopted a directive on the assessment and management of noise in the environment. In 2009, our country partially transposed the obligations of the European Union Directive into its legislation by adopting the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment. The aim of the adoption of this Law on the protection of noise in the environment is to fully bring this area in line with the European Union directives. In its accession negotiations with the European Union, the Republic of Serbia received basic guidelines for working on amendments and additions to existing rules. The European Union's recommendations to the Law on noise protection in the environment are that the terms set out in the Directive should be defined more precisely, specified who makes strategic maps and action plans, that the deadlines for drawing up strategic maps and action plans should be amended and harmonised with the deadlines set in the Directive. The basic objectives of the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment are: firstly, to improve the system of noise protection, to identify and achieve measures in the area of noise protection, to reduce the harmful fact of noise, to determine the limit values of noise in the environment, to determine the degree of exposure to noise in the environment, to provide access to public information on noise. The draft law on noise protection in the environment contains nine chapters. The first chapter defines the basic provisions and the items of the regulation of the Noise Protection Act, the second concerns environmental protection entities, while the third chapter defines the measures and conditions of noise protection in the environment and sound protection. The fourth concerns the measurement of noise in the environment, chapter 5 defines access to noise information, the sixth refers to surveillance, the seventh to the jurisdiction to resolve complaints, while the eighth chapter contains criminal provisions and chapter 9 refers to transitional and final provisions of the law. The application of this law should establish measures in the field of noise laws to prevent or reduce the impact on human health and the environment and improve the quality of life by taking certain measures. As I said at the outset, one of the objectives of this law is to comply with European legislation, and another, even more important, is to control and prevent adverse impact on human health. As someone who comes from the peaceful parts of Serbia, from southern Serbia, from Bosilegrad, where you are awakened by birds, and sleeps the song of cricket, I feel lost when I enter the city noise and noise. Excessive migration from rural to urban areas has created many problems. On one side, rural areas remain empty, and cities are overpopulated. People in search of work and existence are forced to leave areas where natural conditions for life are ideal, and they go to environments where they are exposed to daily stress, influence, pollution and noise. That's why I think that, by example of developed countries, we need to create conditions for the lives of people in the country, in small municipalities and small towns, because there can be far better quality conditions for people's lives. The first condition is building infrastructure, and our country has been working for years on building road infrastructure, building highways and railways. Another condition for this is the creation of real and sustainable jobs in these small areas. In this way we give people both in small towns and in large cities a chance to have a better and better life without noise, without polluted air and water, with less stress and more enjoyment in life. Man is the happiest when he is in sync with nature, because nature is his habitat and the purer and calmer his life is more beautiful and quality. Finally, in the voting day, I, as well as my colleagues from the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – For our children” will support the draft law today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9575	Thank you. Next is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9576	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to present to you in practice what all noise can cause and what noise can produce. This is happening on September 5th. The MP shows the recording on the phone. I hope you hear, September 5th, the place is Cetinje. You could not hear these raphales you hear in the means of information, because in Montenegro they are mostly under Milo Djukanovic's feet or hands, Podgorje news, Šolak and so on. Not to listen to everything, so there's over 50 shots. It is a noise produced by those who welcomed the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Cetinje. This place didn't need any noise. This was supposed to be a protection against the bruce. An unprecedented noise in Negosje Montenegro, that a group calling itself "comitants" welcome the Serbian patriarch and the Montenegrin Metropolitan, to welcome them with shots and prevent them from carrying out a church ritual - liturgy. In doing so, they tried to say that it's a shame that the two of them are behind a sound barrier called a vest blanket, which protects them not only from sound, but also bullets that, when fired somewhere, have to go and have to fall somewhere. No shame in protecting yourself from this noise, it is a shame to shoot priests who want to perform a church ceremony in their Serbian Orthodox church. It's even more embarrassing that we have a former MP who claimed that there was no shooting that day in Cetinje. Now we know that Nenad Canak is lying, and that he is a fat liar. Perhaps this was a shooting of enthusiasm, perhaps Milo Djukanovic was thrilled to see people in black, Nenada Canka and Staša Zajovic, the black person. I hope he knew exactly who the woman in black was. He was probably thrilled and determined to place them in the patriarchs of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church based in Lovcenec, probably. Is that right? Is this some capital the largest in Vojvodina, the only Montenegrin Orthodox Church they have? Maybe that noise was a thrill when he saw the two of them. Imagine that firearms struggle against fascists, reportedly said Canak, an Orthodox church which, behold, took the gospel and decided to hold a church ritual that has been performed on Cetinje for centuries. Now, they're the ones who won't let you go to Cetinje, and they've taken Vračar and Dedinje. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another kind of unfortunate had far less noise than today. These are these parties of the former regime by 2012. They almost created an ecological state, almost completely protected the environment, air, land from industry, traffic protection was over, and they did not make highways. The only sound barriers, as I recall, were next to the French restaurant by 2012. But they're the only sound barriers that are likely not to be harassed by vehicles that go over the gazelle, so they put it in order that the Gilas team and that kind of unfortunate people can have lunch and have dinner, so they only had noise protection, otherwise they didn't need to have highways or build. Today, I think there are hundreds of miles of sound barriers along all the inhabited areas. They were solved by traffic, they were completely solved by industry, so they didn't need the transportation of passengers, the labour force, they didn't need the transport of raw materials, they didn't need the export of finished products, they didn't need the fast tracks, they didn't need those tracks, they didn't need them and they couldn't transport what they were doing almost, they only produced, they didn't need the money and so on, they didn't need a lot of vehicles, they didn't need a lot of air traffic. Two chimneys smoked across Serbia. I remember well in 2012, when we go to the original campaign towards Macedonia, when we go through all of Serbia, when we go to Nis, when we go to Vranje, we barely see two factory chimneys smoking in all of Serbia. What would their sound barriers when the traffic did not have, the exports did not have, the imports had no raw materials, they had no investors, they had nothing, they had no needs almost to create an ecological state, because there was no air pollution, there was no industry, there was no transport. They're the ones here who are raising environmental uprisings now. It's those guys. Imagine they're for highways like... They are for highways, but they're against quarrys. Well, how do they think we make roads if we don't have quarrys? They don't think we're importing stone from Romania, Bulgaria and other countries to make roads that would increase the price almost to get the roads out like that bridge on Ada that cost five times the projected price. Probably by the time everyone settled down, that everyone, likely to be Paones, is famous for those consulting contracts, is likely that when it starts from 150 million to 500 and that bridge on Adi connects, serves as a picture of the young and connects two local communities in Belgrade. To be operational, we need another billion for tunnels, access stations, etc. Now, that's what they've been doing, but now they're for road construction, but they're not for quarrys. They're for construction, but they're not for building, but they're not for producing bricks, blocks, cements, etc. God, it pollutes the environment. They're that anything can be introduced, and nothing can be produced. They're here against polluted air, they all came for a car protest. None of them came by bicycle, even though Marinika could have come in a new model. I was wrong last time, the model Nikola Jovanovic 2020, even if that big environmentalist was supposed to come on a bike, the Nikola Jovanovic 2020 model. She didn't do it either. Then you have, they claim that during Gilas we drove electric cars around Belgrade, because traffic is weaker, less pollution, because people didn't have money, wages were 320, minimums of 150 euros, now it's 560, in Belgrade 700 and some euros, average wages, now people have money, so they drive cars, they don't yet drive electricity, but let's just say, they think that in Gilas' time through Belgrade we drove electric cars and heat up solar power plants. They're for electricity, to be electricity and to be cheap currents, but they're against thermal power plants, power plants, they're against hydrocentrals, they're against everything they produce, they're against everything they produce, they're against electric cars, but they're against lithium batteries, and cars go to lithium batteries. They're so happy to be photographed by cell phones and use them, but they're against lithium batteries in their phones, they're against lithium. It's them again that can be introduced without being able to produce it. We have to live off what's produced, from what's earned, not from who's in charge. They're used to taking foreign loans of 7% interest, and so I collect the loans to pay the pension instead of the income from the production, the personal incomes made, that the fund pays as much pensions, they do it, they take the money with 7% interest, they split some more pensions, and they've made a big crisis of the country. They've all created conditions for me to be an ecological state, not to work industry at all, that there's no traffic, etc. Now, I don't know what we'd live on, what would happen in this country if it were done like that. As far as agriculture is concerned and it has noise and farmers not only the city's population is exposed to noise, it's exposed to the village, there's this wedding, joy and so on, but we don't use firearms like Milo Djukanovic when he sees Staša Zajovic and Nenada Canka, two people in black, we don't do it anymore, something happens, but there are noises produced by cars that go through the highways, but there are noises produced by old tractors, and that's why it needs to be renewed. The old machines that especially in these larger villages, populated places make a lot of noise intensity, and it is very bad for farmers who work on these machines, who are sometimes exposed for 12 hours at the time of the triggering. We've been exposed to this kind of noise from tractors and these mechanisms, and we have 400,000 tractors, the average age is almost 20 years, so we're renovating them over the next twenty years, every year we have to buy 20,000 pieces. It is therefore necessary to use these national measures, however, to renew the machinery. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, agriculture is a environmental pollutant, agriculture has little to do with noise. What consequences can noise be? I can only testify because when I was young, I was a disc-jokey, so there's 200 watts in a small space when it's turned away, it's kind of sound that makes the tones a little bit weaker today, especially high, and that's why I often have a hard time listening when someone in the group is talking, I have a hearing problem. All of us who are exposed to that kind of noise have this problem and that's why I support these laws. On my own case, I know what's the damage to your hearing. A message to citizens about those who wanted to create an ecological state without noise, without a car. They had a good message for these mini-centrals, don't put it on, say don't put those little streams through the pipe, where we're going to throw the keg of packaging, old stoves, and so on, if you put the rivers in our pipes, then they don't have any water to throw it in. My message to the citizens of those poor people, whether they went out or not, I don't think they're worthy of their trust because they're trying to make a division in society. Fortunately, they don't get it, and that's why I appeal to the citizens' eye, I suggest the ruling majority, that they don't trust these unfortunates because from our divisions earlier, who want to share this society, from our divisions, and history teaches us that we are the only ones who haven't benefited. Citizens should be as complex as one option, because such a time has come, very sensitive or we will succeed and continue to be as complex as we have so far, together with the citizens, or we will fail divided, if we show confidence in the unfortunates I have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9577	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Doctor Ilija Živić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9578	Mr. Chairman, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment aims to improve the system of protection against noise in the environment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The improvement and achievement of measures in the area of noise protection to avoid, prevent or reduce harmful facts of noise for human health. While we, as MPs, are trying to protect both the environment and the citizens of noise, in Serbia unfortunately there is a group of people gathered around jilas and Marinika Tepic as well as Jeremic, who, by making noise made up of the worst lies and curses, continues to insult President Vukic and all of us from SNS- When they saw that they did not achieve any effect, they went one step further and hired one person, I think Vidojkovic called who publicly insulted, or cursed mother to President Aleksandar Vukic. Of course, Gilas and Marinika immediately took the stand to justify such a procedure, defending their soldiers by saying that it was an expression of some kind of artistic resistance that they tried only to legalise the insult of not only the mother of President Aleksandar Vukic, but to approve and support the insult of all the mothers of our Serbia. It should be noted that only with Alexander Vukic's arrival at Serbia's helm did the intensive concern about the environment, the quality of life for citizens, unlike the time of Dragan Gilas, for which we could only convince ourselves of his arrogant spending of money. As one of my colleagues, I think Marjan Risticevic, said, Gilas gave ninem euros just to get the bridge ready a few days earlier, so that he could walk that bridge for the New Year. Now, imagine a man who gives nine million euros to our money, the citizens of Belgrade, instead of making kindergartens or renovating a school or hospital? The money boasted, of course, who else, but Vuk Jeremic, who spent our money sleeping in the most expensive hotels in the world while hanging out with people who were on Interpol. So some of his closest friends, such as Patricia Ho and Sheikh Gaida in 2017, were arrested in New York on an Interpol warrant, but the man he praised most on social networks, whom he called his brother, was named Emilio Lozoya, and he was arrested for giving bribes of as much as $800 million. Nothing would have been strange if Vuk Jeremic had been involved with them all this time, in fact, while he was hanging out with them and while they were dealing with these crimes he wasn't hired by their companies and corporations to be their legal advisor and their promoter, which he included incredible $5.5 million. Now I ask the citizens of Serbia can you imagine what kind of counselling it is when you get as much as $5.5 million for counseling? With money so provided, such millions of Djilas and Jeremic thought that with no elections, they came to power in Serbia, based on the pyramid of violence, whose main perpetrators are Marinika Tepic and Alexic. I asked my friends at the Institute for Combating Organized Crime from Italy to make me a pyramid of violence by Marinika Tepic, Aleksic and Vuk Jeremic, analysing their behaviour in the media. I'd like a camera to get this close. Please, cameraman, leave that cell phone and do your job and get close to this. Sir, please stop reading the book and bring this closer. Bring this closer. Your job is to show what the MPs show, not to read the book. Just show this, and then fight with your editor later. The book isn't read in the workplace. This is a pyramid of violence that RTS won't show. Okay, he's not exactly of the Serbian Progressive Party favors us. How does it work? At first, Jeremic, Marinika and Gilas spread lies about us being too rich, how all the restaurants in Belgrade owned Andrej Vukic, I don't know this MP, that MP. When they saw that they weren't getting away with it, that no one was responding, that the prosecution wasn't responding, they started making up affairs. The last of these affairs is the “Jovanjica” affair. Then, over the past month, you could see for yourself, following the social networks of Marinika Tepic, as she calls for protests, on the street, on walks, on strikes, etc. After that, he started calling for persecution. Seven days ago, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas and one of their members invited their members to go out to the streets and that each member of their party will get their advocacy who will be chased in the streets. Then they climbed one step higher, and that's destroying property. Three days ago, the son of Vuk Jeremic's right-hand man, Bora Novakovic, a man who had been in prison several times for embezzlement of millions of euros, broke 30 meters of glass with his hooligans' behaviour, 30m of windows on SNS offices. Why am I showing you this pyramid of violence? Because, dear citizens, only one step that represents violence against people is part of the chaos most desired by Vuk Jeremic, the man who abused his post in the UN while he was. He then contacted foreign intelligence officers, where he agreed that if he caused chaos on the streets of Belgrade, he would call them to help carry out military intervention and create a coup in Serbia and bring down the legally elected power, Alexander Vukic, elected in the elections and appointed as president of the state. It is therefore important for citizens to see this pyramid of violence made by Italian experts to fight organised crime. Also, I would like to turn to something that has been filling the newspaper in the previous days, which is a panic caused by an interview by Mr. Koluvija, who gave to our colleague Vladimir Djukanovic. The release of Mr. Colombia's house arrest, whose arrest Alexic, by the way, used to invent an affair "Jovanja" and accused the president of the state and his brother, astounded many people in Serbia because on the tycoon media you won't hear that Alexic lost his court dispute, that Alexic was found guilty because he lied that Andrej Vukic had anything to do with it. You won't hear it on "New S", or on "N1", or read it in "Today", or anywhere. The panicked Gilas and Marinika first accused the president of a comment. Imagine what democracy they stand for when the president of the state cannot answer a journalistic question? Afterwards, Gilas, Marinika, KRIK, who is financed from foreign funds, embassies, resented Vladimir Djukanovic for making an interview legally, and when that same KRIK published stenograms from the Belivok hearing, and otherwise to publish stenograms, that means someone committed a crime, because the stenograms from the defendants' hearings cannot be obtained legally, then they boasted that it was a press stunt. The same gang, otherwise liars, Gilas, Marinika, Jeremic, using the portal "Directly", accused me of giving Mr. Coluvija some official ID, even though I've never seen this man in my life or had anything to do with that organization. They say he's been blackmailed all along to accuse Andrej Vukic of standing behind the whole story, Mr. Coluvius has denied it, and we'll determine that easily in the course of the trial. But the reason why they went into anxiety and panic is because, according to the latest studies, they can't cross the censorship, and in that case, in this despair of political hopelessness, they have only lies, insults and threats of violence because they can't control Koluvija through their co-workers, they can't blackmail him, they can't hold him in custody, so I hope we'll soon find out who designed this whole fictional story and who delivered the documents to Aleksic. Who handed him the indictment 15 days earlier before that indictment came into effect before the defense attorneys got it? My opinion is that these were the same people who listened to the president, followed his son, filmed his son, and gave the same information and photos to the opposition, but the same ones who provided protection to Belivuk and got him a sniper to assassinate the president. By the end of the trial, which is related to "Jovanjica", it is our turn to remind the citizens of Serbia who is who is hanging out with criminals. Because they've been making it up all along, and they didn't have any proof, so let's remind the citizens. Look at this. This is Dragan Djilas and Vladimir Jovanovic, a Japanese member of the Zemun clan, otherwise the Zemun clan is responsible for the death of Djilas' former head, Prime Minister Djindjic. Look at this smile. This isn't a smile when someone accidentally meets you on the street, so you take a picture with him from protocol. This is the smile of two old friends, two loyal friends. Who arrested Vladimir Jovanovic after the Japanese? Well, our system, the Serbian Progressive Party and our police minister and President Aleksandar Vukic. Also, another close associate of Dragan Dilas is a man who led one of his municipal boards, named Milutin Bakic, who was arrested with 66kg of drugs. Sixty-six kilos of drugs is 66,000 doses for junkies. With that, he could have drugged all day for a few days. Here he is, sitting next to Dragan Gilas. He's not somewhere in the background, in the tenth, fifteenth row, sitting together and laughing at a celebration. In the end, a man who got six and a half years in prison for four and a half kilos of narcotics, because of four and a half thousand doses of junkies, here they are – Milan Dabovic and Dragan Djilas. So, it's Dragan Gilas who hangs out with drug dealers and nobody else in this country. At the end of my presentation, I call on all citizens of Serbia who want independent Serbia not to be managed by tycoons, to be loudly told not to the fascists Đilas and the marines who call for the lynching of non-experienceds, not the violence they call on Jeremic, eager to cause bloodshed to cause foreign intervention, not the lies that Alexic is used to draw attention from his affairs and repetitions in high school, but therefore I call on the citizens of Serbia to say loudly that the highways and factories, to say that new jobs and investments, to say that with higher salaries and pensions and to say loudly that the politics of Aleksandra Vukic. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9579	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9580	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are very pleased that you are during this term, during your term as Minister of Environmental Protection, very often in the Assembly, which speaks of a completely different format of work of this ministry in this term and the role it has in society and should play in the society in which we live, given that we are in one general, large, global crisis, which cannot be affected by this region, as it affects both the EU and the whole world. It is that our country, as well as the whole of the EU and the countries of Europe, where we belong, is struggling and wants to make a balance between what is called development, what is called economic progress, growth, what dictates the development of science, technology and innovation and, of course, the protection of the environment, the security of citizens and the security of our natural resources. I think that we are on a very good track to make this balance, given that when it comes to economics, thanks to one clear strategy and economic doctrine of President Alexander Vukic, we are today in a position to expect economic growth in this year that will be greater than 7%. I think that this growth that Serbia is accomplishing is something that can be defined as a historic summit, when it comes to economic development, when it comes to GDP growth. What's even more interesting than that is that some institutes, the World Bank and the IMF, which have been doing research, are saying that this growth will continue in the coming years and that in the next five years we will have a growth of over 5%. It is something that will provide Serbia and our citizens with everything that we have defined as a majority in parliament, as SNS, as, of course, the leading party in parliament and the state, through the "Serbia 2025" programme, which concerns economic development, employment, new investment and the continuation of that policy that defines Serbia as the economic tiger of this region, the economic hub, which is definitely the best and most favourable destination for investment not only in this part of Europe, not in Southeast Europe, but we can now talk about being competitive with all the countries of Europe and the EU. I must point out that one of the great successes of the Republic of Serbia is our performance and for the first time the opening of Pavilion to the "Dubai Expo" and this shows the strength and commitment of our government, our country to promote our resources, to promote domestic companies, but to promote Serbia as the most favourable destination for investment in this part of Europe. What President Vukic experienced in Dubai from Sheikh Nahjan bin Zaeda says he is one of the most respected leaders, for Arab leaders and leaders in the United Arab Emirates around the world. It was a great pride for all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for us in this Parliament, when we had the opportunity to see that Serbia was winning, that Serbia was at the top, that Bourge Califa was colored in the colors of the flag of the Republic of Serbia and the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia and this tells us how much Serbia has bounced over over the past few years and talks about how much Serbia can be a winner, how much it can be at the top and when it comes to foreign policy and economy and social policy and education and new technologies and innovation, but also, of course, environmental protection. What is very important to send as a message from parliament is that those words by President Vukic of Dubai and now from Slovenia, that we are in the midst of a major crisis that is not only economical, which is also energy and that the fight for energy and energy resources will be a struggle that will define the competence or competitiveness of the states over the next few decades and Serbia is very seriously preparing for that competition. When it comes to energy, when it comes to what is crucial to the possibility that we have the security of our country, our citizens, our borders, our countries, that we have done so, of course, because we are working intensively to ensure that our gas supply is not only from one source, we have come now and we are charging gas transit to other countries, not only to be users and we are paying it, as it was just up to a few weeks ago, when we were paying for Russian gas coming from Ukraine through Hungary to our country and, of course, we are opening new opportunities with our partners from the EU by building an interconnection with Bulgaria, across Bulgaria to Greece, providing and opening up opportunities for our citizens and our economy to supply American gas. This speaks in fact of a strategic policy led by President Aleksandar Vucic, who is definitely one of the perhaps rare sovereign leaders in this part of Europe who made Serbia a sovereign country that makes its own decisions, which is because he has had a clear strategy that Serbia will look like, I am not talking about that time when he became prime minister in 2014, not what it will look like in 2020 and 2021, but what Serbia will look like in 2050, and has been dealing with key issues that have plagued our society for several decades and, unfortunately, we haven't had any political power, political wisdom, or enough of those leaders who were big enough and patriots, to work enough for their country, for their citizens and for their people so that all of those resources that Serbia has put into context and put in favour of strengthening and empowering our country. Unfortunately, that was quite different. The vast majority of those who are criticising Vukic today, who are leading a brutal and unfeeling campaign against him, trying to dehumanize him by campaigning against his family, his children, his parents, his brother, that's what people who have completely destroyed this country's economic system are doing, when we talk about protecting the environment, Mrs Vujovic. They, as far as we know here in parliament, but also in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, carried out a very important and very well-known action, almost at regional level, and this action was called - Let's Clean Serbia. The action, in terms of environmental protection in the city of Belgrade and at the level of the Republic of Serbia, had been cleared that the budget of the Republic of Serbia had been cleared, that the billboard, i.e. on the building on Pop Luka Street by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and then the Minister of the Democratic Party, Oliver Dulic, was paid 500 000 euros in just seven days, Mr Martinovic, and that the same panorams in a tennis tournament, which were found in the stands, were paid in the same figure. So much for their investment in the environment. And my colleague Marijan Risticevic explained very well, as he alone can, the needs of caring and working to protect the environment during this time period, especially between 2000 and 2012, given that economic activities were almost gone. I had the opportunity to see for myself, and that is something that reflects SNS policy, and a few days ago with my colleague and friend Marijan Rističević, as Indji looks, so should Serbia, with factories, industrial areas, with arable areas, with hosts who remain on their land, who create added value, who manage to feed the citizens of their country, to export that food. And that's the Serbia SNS wants to make. Serbia that works, Serbia that builds, people who build, people who pay taxes, from which we build infrastructure, build roads, build factories. Here, we have an example, in India there is one factory that pays more taxes and excise taxes in 10 years than, say, one budget of Montenegro. So, Serbia has opportunities, there are great opportunities, there are plenty of capacities still to develop in this domain and, of course, in the area of environmental protection. So much for what the critics have done on this plan and on this matter, those who today want to accuse President Alexander Vukic. I prepared those data. Let's say he's the one who brought the SNS here, Rio Tinto, he's, of course, bare all these lies. It's just not clear to me that it's not the shame of a government of Jankovic, who's also age, who has an academic title, to say some things that are absolutely not true and that... Of course, it's about pure lies. We are talking about the government and that the governments signed various contracts with Rio Tint from 2000 to 2012, which today is the subject of the biggest criticism of these protests that we have talked about. In 2002, 2004, 2005, so Djindjic's Government, Zivkovic's Government in 2004, in 2005, Kostunica, in 2007, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, all the governments of the yellow and DOS regime negotiated and discussed and signed contracts with this foretold, evil Rio Tint. This would not be an absolute problem to discuss whether it is necessary for our country, whether we need investments, whether we need even more jobs, whether we need to have an ideological, political and economic debate on whether we are going to develop a mining sector, whether we are going to develop renewable energy sources, what we are going to do about it. It is terriblely bad and terribly incorrect for this people, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to accuse Alexander Vukic and the SNS of what they have been doing for years, and they accuse him, not because they are for environmental protection, not because they care about the health and safety of citizens of the Republic of Serbia or Western Serbia or wherever there is already opportunities for investment in the mining sector. They hurt that they're incompetent, that they're thieves, that they haven't been able to realize anything. We wouldn't mind if they had realized something, if they'd made a mine, if they'd done it according to the world's environmental and all the other standards and hired people. We in the SNS have always supported everything that goes towards development, everything that contributes to the development of our economy, new jobs and everything that contributes to modernization of our society. What we've done best, what Wolf has done, is we've opened ourselves up to everything. Serbia has no right, nor is it the right of seniority, no great force, no powerful force. We all work together in a clean, equal, correct way, if they want to, on equal grounds and with the Russian Federation, with which we have great cooperation in the field of energy and mining, and with the United States, and with the People's Republic of China, and with Germany, and with France. So with all countries, we have one great co-operation, with all those who respect, who respect Serbia, who respect our citizens. I want to remind myself of what investments are coming to Serbia now during Vukic. Look at the American "NCR", look at the building in New Belgrade. A hundred million dollars has been invested in this building that will be a tech park, which will tomorrow be a possibility for our young people to develop, to come, to start their own companies, to develop their capacities, to develop their knowledge there and to cash it in, and most importantly to stay here to live, to start their families. Why? Because you'll have opportunities for that. Because they'll have a chance to make good money. We're a party that encourages, who wants everyone to make good money, that we become a rich society. Unlike those who have made one of the most common disasters and led our country to make the minimum profit of 170 euros. They need to cover their ears because they're ignorant, because they don't know anything, because their main thing was to have coffee, what fancy cafe and restaurant. As Marijan Risticevic said, the only thing they did about protecting the environment and the barriers, many of my colleagues were talking about today, they did it in front of a restaurant where they were happy to go, so they could probably have lunch in peace, spend their time taking care of themselves and of their loved ones, not of their own country, not of an ordinary man, not of a worker, what today does SNS and what Alexander Vukic does. Today we have this "NCR" in Serbia and many investments, look at the German investment here, look at the appreciation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel still towards our President Vukic and Serbia. When was that? When did we have such a situation that key world leaders respected us and considered us their reliable partner? I am free to say that today, after so many years, since 1878, Serbia has become one true sovereign state that decides on its own fate and, in accordance with the will of its citizens, decides that these citizens will live and that the state will continue to develop. Unfortunately, we are also one, let's say, a bad example that there is one part of our society, although it is measured by percentages that define a statistical error, that is perhaps 1%, 1.5% of people who are reportedly representing some opposition sides, who are all working only to shock this country, who would do anything to get back to power and so that they can, as in the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, clean the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I want you, Mrs Vujovic, to endure in all your efforts. I know it's very difficult for you, but in any case, it's very difficult to maintain a course where, when it comes to protecting the environment, it doesn't conflict so strongly with the development of energy, economics, new investments, new drives, but it's quite enough that you've done, which is why you have delegated the topic of environmental protection to this society in the right way, and that together with us here in Parliament, with our President, with other members of the government, we are telling our people the truth. We want to protect the environment. We want to protect the health of the citizens. Of course, that's our priority, but we have to live on something, we have to develop our economy and, of course, we don't have to run away from it, because it's all doing the most powerful, most modern, most developed countries in the world, and Serbia is definitely one of the candidate countries today, if not among the first five most developed, but among the first 10 most developed countries in Europe. That's what our people deserve. That's what Alexander Vucic will do, and we here in parliament have both the will and the strength and the commitment to support it maximumly and strongly in addition to all those challenges that, on the foreign and internal political agenda, appear and appear, but we will overcome it and make this country a modern, strong and rich country, where young people remain, where children remain, where old people are satisfied. We showed that, we have the results and, of course, we will strongly support our leader, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9581	Thank you. Before the next speaker, one brief piece of information on confirming the mandate of the MP. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelena Katic, elected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FOR OUR DECU. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on the Administrative Budget and the mandate-immunity issues of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelena Katic. Congratulations on your behalf. The next MP is Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9582	Dear colleagues and colleagues are honored to be a Serb, it is honorable to be a Serbian citizen, it is honorable to live in Serbia. Serbia is a country of decent, wise and honest citizens. Serbia owes no one anything, everything it created, created with the blood and sweat of its ancestors, everything it created, created by their knowledge and skill. That is why Serbia can be proud of its greats who are in the past, who today, throughout humanity, provide many blessings. Enough to mention Tesla, enough to mention Pupina, Milankovic and see who Serbia is and where Serbia is. One of those giants that comes to mind is the famous military leader, the strategist, the Duke of Zivojin Mišic. I was passing the other day on the streets of Živojina Mišić, there at the fair and somewhere in the seal there from a passageway you can't see his monument, or bust. Serbia must not forget its greats. It can't be that easy to put in the end of their great work. I hope that Belgrade, too, that Serbia, too, will pay off in a decent way, is also known beyond Serbia's borders. His tactics, his military doctrine, are being studied at many academys around the world. Why did I mention him? He has one saying that "there is no war that a Serb peasant cannot win," but immediately continues and says, "But there is no peace that Serbian politicians cannot lose." Now I'm going to rely on the story that counterpart Marijan Risticevic had earlier. He was talking about September 5th, and I'm going to move the calendar one month ahead and I'm going to remember one October 5th. How can this October 5th and how can Zivojin Misic have connections to noise and noise protection? Here, I'll explain it to you now. On October 5th, something happened in Serbia that cannot be proud of our history, cannot be proud of our people. After a big, huge, loud and very powerful noise, Serbia was devastated and destroyed. It's not the noise that's going to play music in some bar, it's not the noise that five or ten fun people are going to be yelling, singing, and I don't know what. It's a little something, it's nothing. We'll work that out easily. Those who don't like the coffee shop music can put cotton in their ears and sleep over that night. Those who do not like the song, such as counterpart Marijan Risticevic, promote and play, can change the station and make those noises war. But how do you resist noises like this, accidents like this? What did that noise get us on October 5th? First and foremost, in my opinion, education has been destroyed, the education system has been destroyed. We're like that frog who saw the horse get wet, and she raised her leg very quickly, not wisely, we've lagged Bologna, the Bologna Process that we've introduced into our education system, and unfortunately we've destroyed a good education system, we've destroyed generations of young people, we've destroyed decades of our development, and it's going to be very difficult to correct. What's the other thing where we had a catastrophic mistake? Those who owed their mentors the coming to power in Serbia after that October 5th, destroyed the army on their orders. Weapons destroyed, troops disbanded. What is it, people, the country since we've remembered history and since when do we remember the creation of a human race, which is a country that didn't have an army? Who's the state nobody protects? We took their principles and their orders and destroyed the army. It's something that can't be corrected for decades either. Then, also on their orders, we destroyed the banking system. What's the banking system? It's the blood flow of a country. We knowingly destroyed the financial system and brought the country into a vassal relationship with the foreign banks that took over this market. We destroyed something that was unique in the world and that was, by me and by many, the most valuable and most significant and wisest, which is the service of social accounting. And that now we want to rebuild both the banking system and the social accounting service will not allow us to either the IMF or the World Bank or all those others who love us very much, value and respect us. No, I don't. It is in their interest that the noise lasts, that the noise still destroys everything that was good and that could have been much better in Serbia. Then they forced us, that noise of theirs, that pride of theirs, to a humiliating act, which was the extradition of Serbia's president to The Hague. The president of Serbia, whoever he is, is not at all interested in which party he is, whether he is socialist, whether advanced, whether Democrats, these, they, the president of Serbia is an institution and each of us must and should respect him. If our president wasn't good, if he was wrong, he could be responsible for his actions here in Serbia, if there were any. What's worse, we extradited in the most brutal way generals, warlords, officers, people from the police who did what they swore. Many of you here were in the army and remember that we took an oath there and that we said in that oath, that we swore an oath and said that we would serve our country. For some, it was the SFRY, some after the SRJ, some Serbia, but all of us in the army swore we would serve our country, that they wouldn't be able to do it under the napkins and any other deafening things to distract us in our business. All these generals, all those strategists, officers, officers who were in The Hague are innocent because they did what was their legal obligation, but that noise that came on October 5th did a great evil that no one could ever correct. Now, if Serbia, a colleague, had just talked about it, so she said that she lived in a piety neighborhood, in Bosilegrad, and that's where I often went, that's where I gave lectures, and this is how I went, I went, I gave books there, it's really beautiful and beautiful there. Indeed, there are birds singing, indeed sleeping crickets or as she said, but people, there are many of those places in Serbia where it's wonderful, where it's beautiful, where there's no noise, where there's fresh air, there's woods. I was with my colleague Milletić a few days ago, we were visiting Svrlig, I was giving books there, and I was visiting Svrlig, I met the beauty of Svrlig, we were talking to people, and we were in Pirkovec on that occasion. It's a village where the monastery of St. Archangel Gavril is located. There's an elder named Barnabas, and I suggest you all go there and see what heaven is on earth. There's no noise, there's no problem. And there are singing birds and there's a beautiful church, or monastery. You have extremely nice staff in that monastery and sisters and monks and you see one of the countless beautiful, wonderful parts in Serbia. We have to keep it. Ministry colleagues prepared this project, i.e. the law. We're going to pass the law, it's not controversial, but it's very difficult that everything that we adopt here in the Assembly, it's very difficult to adapt to real life, it's very difficult to get the ears of those who need to hear it and implement it. Serbia must preserve all its good, all its beauty, it must preserve what God has given it, and God has given us a truly, remarkable, beautiful and fine nature. The Green MP group spent Friday and Saturday in the area of Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoshi. For those of you who haven't been there for another piece of advice, don't forget that there are such beautiful places, visit them. I believe this will only be one of the laws that will allow us to make Serbia a much nicer, much more pleasant for life and be a place where each of us will want to live. As part of all these projects, I have installed myself in a project where I donate books and now in Prijepolje, in Sjenica, in Priboj, I have donated libraries to books. I've had the honor of gifting the book to my colleague Irene, so today I'm not going to give her a book, but I have a nice book called "My Political Confession" and one of our colleagues whenever I go out to give the book to ministers, he keeps asking me when he's going to get the book and this time I'm going to give him a book. Those who are malice say that I'm taking a swing at him, that I'm looking for a better position, and I don't think I can have a better position than this. I give this book to Nikola Pasic, to Martinovic, to remind him of his radical days, to remind him of Nikola Pasic, the biggest radical, although these thugs today say when they ask - who Nikola Pasic was, they say - that's one of the first Seselivacs. Martin, I hope this book will help you a lot and keep you alive and well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9583	I thank Mr Stojmirovic. Next National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9584	I thank the chairman, Mr. Hardisic. Dear Minister, Mrs Vujovic and her associates, distinguished fellow MPs so that I would not repeat myself with my excellent colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vučić – For our children, who talked about this law and not to repeat myself with what was excellently presented by Mrs Irena Vujovic in her opening statement, I will only say that we fully agree with this law as well as with those laws that we discussed when we were here, but you see while we here in the Assembly are trying to introduce, or to pass good laws, and to introduce our Serbia into better days led by our President, Aleksandra Vucic and as we talk about indicators that clearly determine that Serbia is leading in Europe last year and this year the best economic policy and politics and as regards the fight against the coronus virus and strengthening of the health system are us. Most of all, Serbia's president and his family are being attacked by opposition leaders who do not want well either President Vukic or all of us in Serbia or the citizens of Serbia. These are primarily Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic and all their comrades who wish to return to power did not continue to kidnap, to further acquire dozens and dozens of property in Vrakar, in the centre of Belgrade, in other parts of Serbia and the world, and to fill their pockets with new hundreds of millions, as my dear colleagues spoke of. The one that worries me, which in this political struggle, Dragan Gilas and his comrades literally threatens every possible way and threatens not only the president of Serbia, but also his family. As the MP of our parliamentary group, I addressed certain questions to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the prosecution about the threat of the security of the Serbian president and I received the following answers, and as regards the threats to Vukan, Danil and Milic Vukic, Andrej Vukic, President Aleksandr Vukic and his parents, and I would like to inform you that the Public Prosecutor's Office has delivered a report to the Ministry of Justice that passed this on to our parliamentary group and to me, and I will present it now. Only during 2020 has it been established and proven that eight indictments can be submitted for jeopardising the security of Serbia's president and his family. During 2021, the prosecutor's office has already filed five indictments over a criminal offence -- endangering the security of Serbia's president and his family. This clearly proves and shows what they're up to. It's not just threats over social networks, through Gilas' portals, through the media. There are threats here in every way possible. Of course we can't talk about some details of the prosecution and the MUP investigation here, but clearly one in this part of Gilas and Marinika, Jeremic's opposition and all those who don't want a good Serbia in the region and the world is in the way of Aleksandar Vukic, they are bothered by Aleksandar Vukic as Serbia's chief defender and as leader of the fight for a better tomorrow, for our future. That is why we must daily inform who they are and what they are and what they are doing both Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic, but also that we always welcome all the good that you do as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia and our president. I hope that at some of the next sessions we will no longer talk about these things that come to us from the prosecution and the police, and I hope that the madness of the opposition's actions will stop and that they will leave the family of the president of Serbia alone so that our President Aleksandar Vukic will continue to lead our Serbia to a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9585	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9586	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, first of all, I want to thank you for the constructive debate and for all welcoming this bill and certainly, as we have heard, each of us had the opportunity to feel the adverse and negative impact of noise on the environment and on the health of people. Therefore, this law applies absolutely to all citizens and everyone can be found and see who has experienced some unpleasant or negative influence during the previous period. What is important is that this law, i.e. domestic legislation, will be fully in line with European legislation. So over 90% of the provisions of the European law have been applied in the domestic law, in the one that is right in front of you, and the rest, or this 10%, will be applied with special rules and fulfilled. So, after the adoption of the law, which should be pointed out, it is that new revised regulations will be adopted which are necessary for implementation as I have said, but also measures to protect against the negative impact of noise on the environment and human health. I'm also very glad that many of you were in the Zlatibor County and you all saw what it was that the Ministry of Environmental Protection did in the previous period. Of course, it's just the beginning and it's not enough. I'd like you to visit other districts in the coming period where various environmental projects are also taking place. It is extremely important that you are involved, because you can in the best possible way promote all green projects, but also raise citizens' awareness of the importance of environmental protection together. We are often here in the National Assembly, as some MPs have said, but I hope that in the coming period we will be even more frequent, as we are expected by a series of laws that are necessary to amend, supplement or fully and new adoptions. I look forward to working with all of you and all of your suggestions. I know that it has been extremely active on all committees, especially the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as the committee to which we are responsible. Thank you again, and I hope that in the voting day you will pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-06-0.u9587	Thank you. This concludes today's principled search. I thank you all for your contribution. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 17.05 p.m.]]
