ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7092	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 13th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 68 members of Parliament. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 123 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Đuro Peric. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 3rd item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF BUSINESS SECRET. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Angelka Atanaskovic, Minister of Business, Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavčević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Dusan Vučković, Assistant Minister of Industry, Jelica Trninić Šišović, Head of Department at the Ministry of Economy, Vladimir Maric, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Sandra Tasic, Head of Department at the Ministry of Economy. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. I'd like to invite the motionary's representative to take a word for it. The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7093	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-Presidents of the People's Parliament, is before you the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, as a law of particular importance, which protects the investment of businesses with the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other business and technological information, whose unauthorized disclosure would damage their holders. Business secret can protect different types of information, such as: production processes, business and financial plans, advertising strategies, market survey results, supplier lists and clients, architectural projects and the like. All that information provides economic operators with an advantage over competition and therefore it is very important for them to be guaranteed protection from acts of unfair competition by law, i.e. Unauthorized detection, acquisition and use of business secrets. Under the conditions of modern business, increased use of information and communication technology, cross-border trade and increased labour mobility, risks of breach of business secrets are becoming more pronounced, so the need for adequate regulation of the protection of business secrets is particularly relevant. The purpose of protecting business secrets is to legally sanction any act of unauthorized disclosure, multiplication, acquisition or use by third parties, confidential information legally controlled by the holder of business secrets, i.e. physical or legal person. The basic preconditions for providing such a type of protection of some confidential information are that this information is a secret, because it is not in general or in terms of the precise structure and set of its components of general knowledge or easily accessible to the persons in the circles normally engaged in that type of information, that it has commercial value because it is a secret and that it is subject to reasonable measures that a person who controls information legally in order to keep it in secret. The proposed law on the protection of business secrets is in line with the relevant EU rules, Directive 2016/943 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information, i.e. business secrets, since illegal acquisition, use and disclosure and Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. The objectives of the law on the protection of business secrets are: strengthening the protection of the legitimate holder of business secrets, protecting investment of business operators in the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information that provides an advantage over competition, strengthening the protection of business operators whose business secrets relate to the process of the production of goods, reducing the number of civil-legisl procedures for breach of business secrets for reasons that new law and legal means are designed to protect business secrets, conceived in a way that prevents competition from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets, harmonisation of national legislation with EU regulations. Key changes, i.e. solutions: Under 1 - there is a detail of what information and under which conditions it enjoys protection as a business secret. Namely, these are information that represents a secret, because they are not in general or in terms of structure and set-up, their integral work is at all known or easily accessible to persons who, within their activities, usually come into contact with such a type of information that has commercial value, because they represent a secret and are subject to reasonable measures that take a person who controls information legally in order to keep it secret. Under 2 – there shall be specified cases where the acquisition of business secrets is considered legitimate: independent discovery or creation, observation, study, separation or testing of products, the exercise of the rights of employees or their representatives to inform and consult and any other action that conforms to good business practices. Under 3 – there are precise cases where the acquisition of business secrets is considered illegal. Namely, it is specified which actions and in which cases are considered illegal acquisition of business secrets, and the field of application is extended to other activities, e.g. scientific research, in which those actions are taken, not just for industrial and commercial activities, as has been the case so far. Under 4. – the number of cases in which the acquisition of business secrets will not be considered illegal is expanded: the disclosure of business secrets by journalists provided that the journalist did so in order to inform the public of issues that are of public importance. In this way, it enables the smooth work of researchers' journalists and enables the protection of their sources; the detection of business secrets by alarmers, persons of public interest who reveal illegal activities. Their activity shouldn't be limited because of fear of harming business secrets. However, if, with information revealed by the alerter, secret information is contained, it is required to comply with the law governing the protection of alarmers. Then, the disclosure of business secrets by employees, their representatives in the legal exercise of the functions of representatives provided that the disclosure of business secrets was necessary for the legal exercise of the functions of representatives and the like. Under 5 – a new measure of civil law protection. Stronger legal protection of economic operators whose business secret relates to the process of production of goods. At their request, in addition to the suspension of the production of goods resulting from the illegal use of a business secret prescribed by the applicable law, the court will be able to impose withdrawal measures, the destruction of goods already in circulation. An infringement of a business secret can be brought not only against persons suspected of harming a business secret, but also against persons whose conduct poses a direct threat to obtaining, using or revealing a business secret, as well as intermediaries, i.e. persons who provide services to persons who illegally supply or use a business secret. The possibility that the prosecutor requiring the withdrawal of the goods that has caused the breach of business secrets from the market has the right to request that such goods be surrendered to the owner of business secrets or charities. Transitional and final provisions. It shall take effect on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, with the exception of the provision of Article 17(1) in the work relating to the application of EU rules, which shall apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia. More specifically, since the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia, the EU will not be considered to be illegal even if it is revealed for the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information, and in accordance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Court of Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7094	Thank you. Any reports from the board? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the Minister said regarding this law, we are harmonising our legislation with certain EU directives. This is certainly important, especially since the strategic goal and policy led by the Republic of Serbia is full membership in the EU. However, it is important, but at this point it may not be the most important. I would like to remind the citizens that in previous years, since the implementation of fiscal consolidation and economic reforms in Serbia, representatives of the former regime here have come to show us that workers in Serbia are a cheap workforce and that investors who come to Serbia are the only ones motivated by cheap workers to invest here. The passing of this law points to some very different economic tendencies, economic activities, and this law was, above all, necessary for our economy, our regulation because Serbia is everything, but not certainly, a source of cheap labour, on the one hand. On the other hand, the economic activities that are happening at this time in the Republic of Serbia show that the Republic of Serbia is also interesting as a country for investment, and certainly with the increase of the standard of life for our citizens Serbia is becoming an interesting market for all those who want to participate in this market and there is a need for the adoption of this law. That is what the Committee is doing when it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt this law in principle. There are other secondary consequences for the adoption of this law which are very positive and which we will later discuss to highlight, but in any case this is one step forward towards further improving the investment environment that is currently in Serbia and certainly by adopting this law we will create security for all investors in the Republic of Serbia, whether they are domestic or foreign. So that legal framework that they are dealing with, what they are investigating certain markets, certain products, certain technologies are protected in accordance with our legislation, which is in line with both EU legislation and international law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7096	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac as a reporter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7097	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have heard, the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is indeed in line with our legislation in the field of protection of business secrets with legal assets, relevant EU regulations. In particular, with two directives. The first is Directive 943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016, 08 June. This is the Directive on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure, and the second is Directive No 48 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2004, 29 April, which is the IPR Directive. What exactly is being protected? The protection of business secrets protects the investment of businesses in the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information, as we have heard, all that information that provides priority over competition. Investment in the creation and application of intellectual capital is protected by intellectual property rights, patent, design or copyright, as well as the protection of access to knowledge that is valuable to the economic operator. The knowledge and experience and undiscovered business information envisaged to remain confidential is a business secret. Different types of information are being protected. We've heard from the distinguished minister who they can be. It may also be interesting to point out that the test data and the various test results that they also represent a special type of classified information that the person who controls them must publish, reveal, when submitting to the competent authority. Creative products that protect intellectual property rights can also contain a commercial secret that has commercial value and which as such should be protected from unfair competition. The point of protecting business secrets is to legally sanction, therefore, any act of unauthorized detection, multiplication, acquisition or use by third parties. The proposal for this law, which I must stress, is now completely new, defines a business secret, specifies what information and under which conditions they enjoy protection as a business secret, regulates under which conditions of acquisition, use and disclosure of information that represents a business secret, under which conditions it is considered legal and under which conditions it is considered illegal. This proposal proposes that the breach of business secrets be sanctioned as a commercial offence and, if it is made up by an economic operator, a company, or a responsible person in that company, and sanctioned as an offence if it is made up by a natural person or entrepreneurs. We have heard that it is actually at the very session of the Committee on European Integration, that, if I am not mistaken in 2011, the law was passed, but now this is still a whole new one, the second one, and in fact, after the analysis and these directives, first of all, the directive that I mentioned from 2016 943, but also Directive 48 realized that there had to be a whole new law to come and that this is now the first time actually in the intelligence of the Ministry of Economy. And in fact, the goal of passing this law is to accelerate and improve the protection of business secrets. The Committee on European Integration, of course, supported this bill in principle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7098	Thank you. Since there are no more reporters, we are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7099	The Honorable Chairman, respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets falls under the law of those laws whose urgency is to protect the health of the economy, protect what is healthy in the economy from what is sick in the economy, protect good, fair, professional and correct businessmen from smugglers, mechanics, plagiarists and various other criminals in the economy. So, this law tends to a certain perfection in the economy and treats one very delicate and important matter, which is certainly in the legal form an important formal aspect of the protection of a healthy economy, but on the other hand, it is deeply intruding, which in certain areas is called business ethics. So we're touching something that's important, essentially inexplicable, something that can't just be regulated by law, something that affects humanity, something that's very current today and in the field of certain scientific interests and areas, something that's trying to be treated with more aspects, to actually point to the importance of business ethics or ethics in business. It is not by chance that interest in business ethics is increasing, but rather related to the fact that, in fact, the ideological and systemic situation in the world, where matter and materialism have, in some ways, been dominated by society, and then in such circumstances, especially in terms of economy, economy and business, finance, all of this is about material, or material gain and interest, and all of this is again related to that material biological aspect of man. And matter in its nature, it has no ethics, it has no metaphysics, it has no feelings, it does not have that side of humanity that it contains, which actually man needs to protect by certain mechanisms, primarily with consciousness, and other than consciousness, education and spiritual ways of protecting humanity, it is necessary that these values also get their legal form, i.e. through quality law, to be protected. That's what we're doing today and that's what this law's unhindered intention is and it certainly represents an important step towards ensuring a healthy environment for attraction. In fact, what has been achieved by modern society after hundreds of years of various experiences and various experiments in terms of the systemic relationship with the economy is that it is actually a free market that needs to be a spirit of healthy and normal submission, but not certainly a chaotic free market, but a regulated free market, because in fact freedom itself, unless it is framed by principles, and all of this defined by laws, so then freedom becomes anarchy, becomes chaos. That is the case for all aspects of life when it comes to man and his relationship to freedom, but that legality is also valid for the economy, that is, the economy. Therefore, the free market, yes, but arranged, is essentially governed by certain principles. Of course, legally, we always have different theories in which we need to sort out a space. One of the legal principles is that one man's right to reach the limit of the right of another man. But that's, let me say, a formal, simplified framework, but the arrangement of the system is not only about the rights of two people, but it's about the complex need to regulate relationships in society, where we have a relationship between two people, between a man and a community and between a man and a state, and it's a two-way relationship. So in this complex package of arrangements, it's very important that we have a good law that represents a framework. So, if we succeed, and what is our desire here in the National Assembly, through all our legislative activities, but also members, or representatives of the government working with us here together, and before that, they spend weeks and months preparing good laws, with all their professional teams. And it's like when you get food on the table, so obviously when you get well served food on the table, even if it's well arranged, no one's giving up their thinking about what everything was supposed to do in the kitchen to get to the table and to enjoy the food. The same in cooking, or the preparation of these laws, are very complicated and complex procedures to come up with good legal proposals. And until they are adopted here in the National Assembly, these are legal proposals. Therefore, as other experts, members of the working groups, representatives of the government, ministers responsible for certain laws have put forth important efforts, so that these proposals are as high-quality as possible, we are equally obliged as the MPs to make every effort to look now from our point of view. Our point of view is that we are representatives of the people, that we should be the most guided in the needs of the people, in the feelings of the people, in the problems of the people, and that we actually bring that voice and that angle of view here, into the National Assembly, and actually, from that point of view, we will throw certain rays of light at the legal proposals, and in fact, by meeting those rays, hopefully, we will get the highest quality legal solutions. So the law can't fix one field till the end. The law is a framework. He's a frame. It's just like traffic. If you're going to drive well, if you're going to drive well, if you're going to drive a good car, you can't be helped by traffic regulations. Respect for the red light at the traffic light to stop and green to pass, as well as respect for certain other signals, horizontal or vertical in traffic, does not affect your quality of driving in terms of how good a driver you are and how good a car you have. You have to work this out yourself, practice driving, so you might as well be talented, and then earn in a regular way, buy a good car. But what legal regulations and in traffic and in economy need to provide you with is that you don't endanger yourself or anyone else in traffic, that you don't cause an accident, that you don't land out of the way. That's what we need to secure this law and all the other laws. In this respect, this law should certainly be supported, especially since I initially stressed that he actually has the ambition to separate the grain from the weeds. As long as we don't have a good regulation on these and similar topics, then we have one space that isn't systemized, which doesn't have a good regulation and that doesn't have a good framework, where it's much easier for a weed to grow and grow, than for grain. That's what the permanent problem was. So I'm going to share with you some experiences that aren't so unknown, but they're very large and striking, first of all, with the intention that if we can fix what we can't fix, then at least we have that in mind so that no such mistakes can be repeated. You remember what happened. a new market miracle in a small economy that we had in the 1990s. So we who lived there and now we live are actually witnesses from the field. So, there's been something that's not a crime, which isn't, let's say, a phenomenon that many people interpret because it's been going on in war years. So crime often takes place in speculative economic activities, various forms of illegal gray or black trade, but it's hard to deal with production through crime. So whoever decides to produce something, decides to have a legally registered family company, a family business, to start a small company with his family and produce pants, shirts, shoes, a piece of furniture or something like that, which was a wave that affected Novi Pazar and Sandzak in general, in the 1990s, where that activity grew to that extent that we had at one point close to 5,000 manufacturing entities... So, not some agencies, mechanical, manipulative, but manufacturing entities, small businesses, families who had a whole system of production, who knew how to make pants, to make various other pieces of clothing. True, it did in some way blow back the wind of a particular crisis of that moment, the embargo, etc., so there was further increased interest of the whole country, so the citizens of the entire country who were coming to Novi Pazar to buy the goods. Yeah, that's a chance, that's a rare moment that the New Marketers took advantage of in a way that the crisis used to be a chance, but it was supposed to be capable, it should have been known to run the production, it had to make a product that someone wanted to wear. It's not a thing that ran out of bread, so we eat bread whatever it is, but no one dresses if he doesn't like it, if it's not good quality. So it's about this economic boom that happened and that may have had some systemic disadvantages, but it was essentially a huge positive energy. So that worked between 15 and 20 years. It's something that could be used as an example of how to further develop a small economy, how to show the whole society that it's possible that ordinary people, when they want to work, when they have creativity, when they have ambition and eventually when they're allowed to... We used to brag about that new market thing back then. We wanted to offer it to the rest of the country, other businessmen and citizens in the region. However, the moment the country's normalisation began, instead of this model getting support from the authorities at the time, unfortunately it bothered someone. So the last authorities made sure that, not only not to support that model, but to choke it. How did that model choke? He choked through the corruption of certain structures in power, in the tax administration, in abuse of inspections that instead of helping small businesses actually drastically, brutally and brutally recruit these small businesses, strangled them and only those who agreed to pay them a very expensive racket would survive. However, since it was very small companies, that the market was very close, great competition, every less choking began to choke, or threaten the weakest ones, their number began to decrease. The key blow came from organized crime. Organized crime has put a key blow to this small economy, something we all regret now that we've allowed to destroy such a thing. Certain criminals, drug dealers, and we know that large criminals can never be large unless they have their associates in the structures of government. It's not the first time I've talked about it that in the area of New Pazar and Sandzak we still have a very close range of organized drug crime and other aspects of organised crime with judges, prosecutors, certain structures in the police. There are certain attempts to eliminate or reduce the impact. Unfortunately, we still don't have the country's full focus to go against these criminals, as it moves here in Belgrade against large criminal groups, which is for every praise and support, something that should not be diminished in any way, but that energy must be spilled to the periphery, especially where there is a very fertile ground for crime, because it is border areas, areas with significant communication opportunities, with certain crime points both within the country and outside the country. What's going on? Large criminals actually founded the production structures of a particular factory that were their cover for drug trafficking. Now such people, whose main profit was drug trafficking, actually needed to have a factory. When they produce pants that cost them 15 euros, they need to sell them 25 to earn something. Is that right? However, they sold their goods, i.e. 10 euros each, because they didn't care if they earned it, lost it, because their profits were not the production of pants, but the trade in drugs. What happens next? All those honest, all those producers who aren't criminals, who aren't drug dealers, have to shut down their factory. I had a friend who, not only shut down all his production plants, but moved out, simply had a complete collapse, defeat. A few of them fled the market, couldn't deal with it. So we left the city to criminals, drug dealers. It happened after 2000. That's what happened, and we can't recover from it today. On the other hand, a dirty drug capital that was the most competitive in privatisation processes, where various plants, factory halls were sold in New Market... All those who have come hard and fairly to their capital couldn't be competitive in the privatisation market and now the two, I say, nuclear bombs, are in fact the market is economically destroyed. Today, very few of these people remain on their feet and produce what they produced back then, which is indeed regrettable. It's not too late to save a lot of people. We've still got those who are down, who are fighting, who are persistent, who haven't given up, but we still have the domination of criminals and drug dealers. That's where we have to act together. Through the Ministry of Economy, to protect these small, honest people who unload, bleed, barely save their business entities, to go through the Ministry of Justice, into a final fight with criminals who drink the blood of honest people through tax administration, through VAT returns. You guys don't need special criminal services. Just take the report through the IRS and see why the same people are throwing up so enormously large VAT figures, very clearly with the booking that it went away somewhere for Montenegro, and everyone knows it's not. So it's about things that are written down. You don't need some Elliot Ness to find out. Therefore, it is simply necessary to get a warrant from the Ministry of Finance, from other other competent services to enter the account. I mentioned customs yesterday, I'm mentioning it again. So, very simply, why are only some people privileged to customs certain goods in one place and others not. So wherever there are exclusives, it's a crime, wherever not everyone's equal chance, it's a crime. So we need two sides to go, a sharp deal with organised crime that can neither be organized nor strong unless it has the support of certain ruling structures, in this case there are very clear addresses at local and medium, perhaps some other levels, and all of this needs to be explored. So, if we basically deal with the rates, we deal with the pillars, we deal with the foundations, then these laws are perfectionist, too, if I can call them that, like protecting business secrets, then they'll make sense. So it's like health, if someone has malignancy, and you're in liposuction, you're in his skin, and if he has any wrinkles or no wrinkles, believe me, it doesn't make sense. We have to deal with basic, statistical, therefore, structures, there to fix the situation, there to prevent cracks, and then surely this law that is very good and needs to give its results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7100	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Next is counterpart Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7101	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, today we are considering the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. At this point, we already have a law that regulates this matter from 2011, and it was at the time it was adopted in line with the EU directives, in particular, the 2004 directive. Meanwhile, circumstances have changed, the market has changed, business mode has changed, business conditions have changed, and it has been perfectly logical that the EU will pay particular attention to this one important segment in the business of each economic operator. In this regard, a new directive has been adopted, you spoke of it earlier, and the natural need has emerged to bring our legislative framework into line with the EU directive, which has been adopted in the meantime. Among other things, this directive, and now our bill, sets out certain formulations, i.e. more clearly defining some concepts that may have caused a misunderstanding when applying the law itself, and we can essentially say that the proposal for this law, or the need for adoption, or adoption of this bill, is a harmonisation of domestic law with EU law. We all know, and especially those who come from the economy, what is a business secret and very often in everyday speech we face this term, but when we come into a situation to apply it, we are not entirely sure whether this same information, document or goods, any element is a business secret and therefore it is very important to define precisely by law what business secrets apply to so that we can properly and apply it, or that citizens understand what is considered legal or illegal. To begin with, the draft law provides for the definition of business secrets and under which conditions certain information is enjoyed by legal protection. I think it is important to point out that, among other things, this law strengthens and the civil and legal responsibility of those suspected of injuring business secrets, and in this sense the definition of the very concepts of legal and illegal information acquisition has been expanded. You mentioned earlier that the newspaper in this bill was also covered by both the scientific and research institutions and the associations of citizens because the current law did not have any special protection because only commercial activity, i.e. the domain, or the extent of the law concerned only goods. In this regard, it is important to note that scientific and research institutes share very important information with the economy, and that is the information that stems from their mutual trust, work, research, perhaps some mutual practices, and that is why it is important that this law includes that part. So far, your ministry has not dealt with this topic. It was in the management of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. It is precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier that it is now in the domain of your operation. In 2019, the work on the adoption of this law began under the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development which, in co-operation with the Institute of Intellectual Property, developed a proposal, namely the draft of this law. It was further forwarded to the European Commission for its opinion in December 2019, after comments came to the proposal in March 2020, followed by the harmonisation of the proposal we are now talking about with the European Commission's opinion on the law. I mentioned earlier that this law strengthened the civil-legal responsibility of the holder of business secrets on the one hand, but also his responsibility on the other. We very often neglect that against every right stands a commitment and that what is rightful for one holder is a right, for all third parties at the same time represents a obligation and that we must manage it. One more thing I would draw attention to is that the bill has changed deadlines to protect the case of a breach of a business secret, i.e. to press charges for breach of a business secret. The applicable law provides for a subjective period of six months from the date of knowledge, i.e. three years from the infringement. This law now changes deadlines per year, i.e. five years, which additionally creates, i.e. providing legal certainty and enables those who consider that there has been a breach of business secrets some longer period of time during which they may also require judicial protection. Another one of the newspapers introduced by this proposal is that so far it is the one who holds the business secret, that is, the one who holds the business secret can require the goods to be withdrawn from the market in the event that some of the elements of the goods contain a breach of business secrets and not only goods, but all other documents are in electronic form or any other formulation, which is essentially a business secret. Another important thing when we talk about withdrawing goods from a market that can often be very expensive, and which this bill now gives is that it can be handed over for charity purposes instead of withdrawing from the market so that it may serve some other research teams or in some future work and give some results for which perhaps there is no room on the market at that time or no opportunity for the same. I mentioned that the bill also introduces a more precise formulation in terms of what is considered a legitimate acquisition. For example, if in the course of some research or production independent of that process, the manufacturer comes up with certain results that represent a business secret, but at the same time it has come to them in a legitimate manner they will not be considered to be a breach of business secrets precisely because of the existence of his security in conduct, in the sense that at the time of some knowledge he may have been in parallel by running some of his own manufacturing processes or plans came up with some information which at the same time represents the business secret of another economic operator. In addition, this law also provides for the protection of a wider circle of persons, i.e. covers and extends a circle of persons who can file a lawsuit and covers not only those who are suspected of illegally obtaining business information, i.e. secrets, but also persons who provide services to such persons and such an extension of entities against which the complaint can be directed is in fact a way of covering as many people as possible, to put the seriousness of this topic at some appropriate level. You'll agree with me that the field of demarcation of the legal and illegal acquisition of information is very, I can say freely slippery, and it leaves enough room for interpretation that we cannot allow. In that sense, Article 17. The bill is currently dealing with this topic, citing exceptions from cases where the provisions of this law will not apply, and all with the aim of achieving another objective, i.e. public interest, in particular when such information is supplied and supplied. I mean journalists who come up with certain information through investigative journalism, I mean lawyers who collect certain information in the case of representing their clients, and I think of employees who are forced to give within a particular company, I wouldn't say forced, perhaps a group of words, who are obliged to give certain information to representatives of union organisations within the company itself. In that case, they provide this information in order to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information, but the same provision should be interpreted with a lot of caution. For that very reason, this article 17. The draft law excludes the application of the provisions of this law if the information is made public or made publicly available in order to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, thereafter, with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, etc. Its application has been delayed for a reason until Serbia's EU accession, which clearly shows that it may not be best to move forward with such a provision of the law at the moment, but when a proper level of compliance with the treatment is reached, as well as with EU documents. You'll agree with me that from the point of view of economic operators is a business secret of great importance. Essentially, the seriousness of a business world is just looking at data protection and information that represents a business secret, especially in the area of finance. It is also important in the economy to sanction the illegal use of business secrets, as the success of every business company and business operator depends to a large extent and on how it will preserve all the information that is an integral part of its production or development processes. If we start from the business secret being knowledge and knowledge is capital, in so far we'll understand the importance of this topic that we're talking about today. In order to make it clearer, I would only say that business secrets protect different types of information, not only goods, as was the case so far, but also processes of production, these are business plans, financial plans, advertising strategies, the results of market examinations that can very often be of importance to which customers, i.e. customers, will focus the business of a particular economic operator, then the list of suppliers, etc. To talk about business secrets at all, business secrets must contain certain characteristics. To begin with, it must be confidential, it means that even when it is so it is known to a particular circle of faces within the company or firm dealing with the issue. You will agree with me that in practice very often some information is valuable precisely because it is hidden from the eyes of the public. Therefore, it is necessary to clearly distinguish which information in terms of business secrets is indeed considered important for business. Furthermore, information must be unreachable, which means that it is not easy to identify third parties and must be protected, which means that the information holder has a clear enough will not to reveal it. This is where we come up with one prerequisite that needs to be achieved to protect certain information or a document of an economic operator that will be considered as such a business secret. This means that all such documents must be publicly, i.e. clearly marked as a business secret. This means that each of them must take reasonable measures to protect certain information, product or any segment of their business from the eyes of the public, or third parties, because only in this case can we consider it to be a business secret and prevent the possibility of abuse by the same legal persons themselves. In the end, I just mentioned union representatives within the company. I think it's one of the important aspects and that we need to say out loud what it really means, so that the provisions of this law don't be interpreted differently. The logical question is whether a union representative, other than the right to access certain information, has an obligation to preserve it. I am personally of the opinion that union representatives within each company, i.e. companies can use certain information as a business secret only for the purpose of the business they deal with and only in those frameworks that are identified as the authority of the union representative with the internal documents of each economic operator. Therefore, additional efforts must be made, in particular by the courts, to assess in each particular case whether there is a public interest or not for the provision of certain information, i.e. there are enough mechanisms to provide protection and we expect to the courts that they will really put extra caution into this regard. I'm gonna do a little short-circuiting. What the Constitution of Serbia guarantees to natural persons when it comes to the protection of personal data, this law does so with legal persons, i.e. economic operators, and it allows them to deny all uninvited persons the data that represent a business secret for them. If we figure out the bill like this, I think we'll be more clear on what size it is and what extent in each of us's lives are covered. In the end, I would just say that if "coca-cola" whose recipe is usually highlighted as the most successful story of business secrets, I have managed to keep that secret for more than a century, if God, the potion that has been used in these premises for more than 1,000 years has managed to remain a well-preserved secret that is still being served in pastries, then why don't we, in the same way, protect the information and all the other elements and documents, as well as the knowledge that is subject to regulation of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7102	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7103	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with fellow citizens, today the Assembly is discussing the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. As many times as we have, we have discussed many laws, we have put various amendments to these laws and eventually adopted them in the original form or this promotion. complemented by amendments. That's what we're gonna do with this law. If we look at what every law does, it is there as a certain correction, to prevent certain behaviors from crossing certain boundaries, whether they are moral boundaries, legal or contractual boundaries, but it is the law that has certain frameworks within which to act. Everything outside these frameworks he is there not to play the role of punishment, but the role of protection. It is there that protects all of us who know the limits and the decency and opportunities of those who think these borders can move on their own because of the habits they have acquired, first of all on small things that do not cause great or any damage, up to things that have disastrous consequences for individuals and society in general. The law can be perfect, but there will be cases where you can't be. protect us, for as in every grain there are weeds, so in society there are individuals who are hard to separate from their habits. And today it can go beyond the law and be called individuals and the entire organization, falsely accused and false witnesses offered, that the charges are so gross that it's hard to listen to them, let alone pronounce them. But those who prey on attention and judge for themselves, not allowing one whom they accuse or defend, nor to clear his name. Today, one who has enough money or other resources thinks he can go beyond the framework I was talking about, and imposes his acquired form of behavior on society as normal. Both the prosecution and the judiciary are in charge of the laws and its frameworks. From the speed of their work, of course that won't affect the quality, depends on the damage you're being created. The slower the prosecution and the judiciary do, the bigger the damage. Therefore, you have the right to defend yourself, and no one can take that right from you, even those who falsely accuse you and judge you immediately. The hardest part of this is that this kind of exit from the law provides enormous negative consequences for both the individual and his family and friends and everyone who really knows him wants to help, like I do now, but at the end of the day he stays alone in this one, because all the weight of the disgusting words is on his back, as much as we want to take them off. And this law that we are about to pass today, the law on the protection of business secrets, is a law that needs to protect the investment of businesses with the acquisition, development and application of knowledge, experience and other information that will give them advantage over competition. The business secret is also used to protect the finding during the patent application process, as well as data that the patent does not cover either those or which cannot be patented. When I just said that the law is perfect, it cannot fully protect us from those who play outside the scope of such a law. I had in mind some similar situations that were happening in the recent past. Namely, our greatest scientist Nikola Tesla has had unpleasant experiences on this particular subject. Italian scientist Markoni spent part of his working century as a technician right at Nikola Tesla's and there he saw and worked with some technical findings that he continued to develop on his own and will soon be recognised as a patent on radio transmission. That same patent was later annulled, and again admitted, that in 1943, in June of the month, six months after Nicola Tesla's death, the Supreme Court of the United States would recognise the right of Nikola Tesla to this patent and thus put an end to the injustice that had been done to our scientist. It's strange that today, in many textbooks of our high schools, it's said that Markoni invented a radio. And that is why, despite the laws, which we of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group think is good and that in the voting day, of course, we will have to support, everyone has to pay extra attention to whom all available information can be characterized as a business secret. Of course, business secrets differ from patents and copyrights, because patents and copyrights at the end of that road, so to speak, require that information be published defined by procedure. So they eventually become public, and the business secret requires even permanent storage of information. One of the most famous business secrets is a recipe for a "coca-cola", which is 135 years old, where only a few people in the world know that recipe until today. This is a good example of keeping a business secret. Although there must be personal and additional precautions to protect it, just as the Koka-Kola company did. Also, we have more and more business secrets in the programming world, i.e. computer programs, where there's a constant struggle between software houses and hackers. Since I come from Leskovec, and Leskovac is a famous town of barbecues, which is not by any chance, because in Leskovec we have long been making the best barbecue meat, based on a recipe similar to other recipes, with a few secrets, business secrets and tricks in preparation, which is why the barbeque barbecue has gained such status. Of course, every year a large grill review is held in Leskovac, a well-known "Leskovačka Griard", where they demonstrate their skills both wooded and other grilled masters from all over our country. This year, the 31st barbecue will be held, and since last year due to the pandemic of the coronary virus has not been maintained in the form in which it has been maintained for three decades, I hope that this year, from August 23rd to 29th, it will be held at full capacity, where everyone will be able to taste the business secret of the timber grill. Let's go back to the subject after all. Of course, when we look at this proposal of the law on the protection of the business secret that we are talking about today, the logical question arises – why haven't we used the existing 2011 law, with a number of amendments and additions, but when we see the changes described in this bill in relation to the current law, we conclude that they required new formulations of legal provisions that could not be made by amendments and additions to the applicable law. This bill also defines what is considered a business secret, who is the holder of business secrets, what are reasonable measures to preserve secrecy, is also defined and how can legally be obtained, used and even revealed business secrets, and also defines it when it comes to the illegal way. This bill also fully defines civil and legal protection, from filing charges and their deadlines to deciding, publishing judgments, introducing provisional measures to compensation for damages. Given that the aim is to reduce unfair competition which would be reflected in the unauthorized acquisition of business secrets of competitors, these measures will contribute to sanctioning and dissuasion of unfair operators from taking illegal actions, which will positively affect the conditions of competition. So, to conclude, this proposal is comprehensive, complete and consistent with the relevant European Union regulations. By adopting it, we will put legal frameworks in order to sanction any act of unauthorized disclosure of business secrets, thereby protecting its holder. Due to all these elements, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7104	Thank you. The next MP is Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7105	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Atanaskovic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, initially Mr Arsic, as the Committee's rapporteur, said that this law, among other things, is a confirmation of good economic tendencies and businesses and that it will certainly improve the investment environment and create one business security in Serbia, that it will make Serbia an even more attractive investment destination. Before I start talking about the legal proposal itself, I would refer to what I think is very important, given your presence, which is economics, it's economics, it's numbers, it's indicators. I think it is very important that we once again present to the public everything that is the Government, which is the President, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was done during an extremely difficult period, in a period when both Serbia and the whole world are facing the biggest health challenge that I hope is facing. The system has functioned throughout this period since March of the month. Not only did the system work, it achieved very good results. You know, you can try to cheat when we talk about this quasiposition, try to degrade, devalue, minimize something, but when you talk about economy, numbers, figures, they're exact, you just can't cheat there. The best answer to any criticism about the economy, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the results that the government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved in March to this day, are just the facts. So, in the period from March of the month to today, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, we have talked about it many times before, the three were key issues. The first key question was – were there layoffs in Serbia? Of course not. From that historic maximum, when we talk about unemployment in Serbia, from 2012, which was 25.9%, there was a historical minimum below 9%. Were there factory closures? Of course not. So every job has been preserved. Did foreign direct investors give up investment in Serbia, which is extremely important? Of course not. Some plans have been implemented, which is completely understandable, but let's deal with concrete things, to come up with concrete facts and concrete data. Did the Japanese company Nidek open its plant in Novi Sad, which will employ 470 people first and will out of 1.5 billion euros planned to invest in Serbia this year? Does anyone think of Japanese investors coming where the unstable and insecure market is? I have to, don't mind me, is today specifically the Ministry of Economy, I have to be a local patriot first because I come from Valjev, is today the Ministry of Economy, when I say the Ministry of Economy, I mean the Government, I mean the President, with representatives of Germany's Bizerb company, will sign an incentive agreement to invest a company in Valjevo? It's 305 jobs in Valjevo. Finally, one investment in Valjevo. In addition to construction of a bypass that will allow, not only Valjeva, but the whole western Serbia to remain a appendix. It's a magnet for potential investors. If you don't have infrastructure, there is no economic development without infrastructure. We learned that from our friend Milutin Mrkonjic. That's right. Without infrastructure, there is no economic development. If you don't have infrastructure, if you don't have an industrial zone, if you don't have city-building land to offer investors, of course no one will come. Much gratitude, me above all as Valjevac and MP groups, and I hope to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group as Valjevac, above all, and as president of the parliamentary group, for what the Government will do today, specifically for the city of Valjevo and for the citizens of Valjevo. I once made a joke with Mr. Momirovic. We talked about the bypass, among other things, and he talked about how he traveled by rail and how he met a Valjevci who was traveling by train and leaving Valjevo for Belgrade to work in Belgrade. I said I was convinced that very soon, after signing this agreement, after bringing in another investor who was announced, after the tour was completed, Valjevci will meet in trains only in terms of a tourist destination to Belgrade, and that the Valjevci will be able to live decently from their work in their town and will allow both the government and the president, and that they will confirm everything and verify the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, thanks very much for what Valjevo will get today specifically through the signing of this agreement. So when we talk about measures. Is there one country, I never compare and I never want to underestimate the countries in the region, not in Europe, not in the world, but the question is, has one country taken this much of a burden of crisis on itself from March to this day? The first two packages help 800 billion dinars, the third aid package we talked about during the budget rebalances of 88 billion dinars. The first package was 12.7% of GDP, the second package 4.3%. When we add up the amount, it's about 17, I'm sorry, the third aid package was 257.1 billion dinars, my mistake, and 88 billion for the infrastructure is isolated, which is extremely important. When we add it all together, it's about 17.2% of GDP. Has a country in the world taken this much of the burden of economic crisis upon itself? I think the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are being directed in the best possible direction. That management confirms this period. We didn't do budget rebalancing by accident. We've been working on budget rebalances to take a good starting position for the first day after the crown, to continue with good economic indicators and to continue with good results. When we talk about measures, I said, quite justifiably, aimed at the standard of living of citizens, to preserve and preserve the standard of living of citizens. Tell me, and a country that has increased wages, pensions, has given one-time help to citizens from March to this day. The second part is aimed at preserving every job in Serbia. What is extremely important, as far as the resources you run are concerned, are directed towards micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the last package includes large enterprises. Serbia entered economically strong and stable in 2021, economically stable at the highest rate of economic growth in Europe, i.e. falling 1%. Companies with an economy are fully stable and fully confident that we will be able to realise that projected GDP rate of 6%. A few nights ago, the president spoke and said it would be 7%. I think it is also very good in the sense that the scale should always be raised, goals should always be raised, new tasks given, because it is good for Serbia's future, it is good for the future of Serbia's citizens. So, you can't deny and deny economic data because the facts are present, and the facts say, let's say that the minimum labour price in 2021 was 183.93 dinars, that we came in March, great news for Serbian citizens, the average net salary was 555 euros. So that's something that many didn't believe would work out just in the Corona period. Then, when we talk about economic indicators, the average pension in dinars for the period January – March 2021 in 29,380 dinars. The next economic indicator, which is also important, I said already, concerns unemployment, so 25.9% of us came to a historic minimum of 9%. Gross social product 1%, public debt on 31 March 2021 was 55.7% which is less than Mastricht's level of 60%. Otherwise, 60% of GDP is a Mastricht criterion that was adopted in 1991 within the EU at the time, referring to what level of debt countries can have as much as possible to be candidates for membership in the eurozone, or in the currency union, and since then figure out the 60 per cent figure. I talked a little bit about foreign direct investment, foreign direct investments amounted to about three billion dinars last year. And when we talk about infrastructure projects, that's what's extremely important, so life didn't stop in Serbia, it continued to work, it continued with activities. One data, from January to November of last year, made investments in total value, seems to me, about 146 or 147 billion dinars, which is if we compare it to the same period of the previous year by 14.7% more. It says quite enough how the system functioned exactly in the period when it was the hardest. Now, as regards the concrete legislative proposal that we are talking about today, which is the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, the new law, as has already been said, and you have talked about it in the opening statement, is being replaced by the applicable 2011 law. The essential reason for the major changes that have been translated into the new text of the law is the obligation to bring the legal framework for the protection of business secrets into line with, above all, the relevant EU rules and to provide better protection. By the way, the essential question is what's a business secret. We could define a business secret as a company that could cause significant damage if it became available to some third parties who could earn a certain economic gain by coming into possession of this data. Also, we can say that the official secret information about a company that is held as a special company value and an advantage to competition above all. The issue of keeping business secrets is getting more and more relevant with industrialization, especially with a new era of digitisation, when different databases can be easily accessed, thus making it easier to reach business secrets and companies. Very often unfair competition stems from the theft of business secrets of companies, i.e. the theft of industrial or intellectual property. Unfortunately, theft is very often evidenced, especially when it comes to intellectual property, so counterfeits are very common, and forgers are skillfully avoiding the letter of the law. The theft of industrial intellectual property often takes on the characteristics of organised crime because it happens on different brands, forge them or steal as original products or place them on other countries' markets. As the business secret is the key to development and competitiveness, it was necessary to formulate a more secure legal framework in Serbia, i.e. to enable more adequate protection of business secrets, in accordance with relevant economic legislation. So, harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. It is important to say that Serbia, realizing the importance of this issue, has brought a public policy roof document in the area of legal protection of business secrets, which is a strategy for the development of intellectual property, precisely for the period from 2018 to 2022. The strategy envisions the adoption of a new law on the protection of business secrets, in order to achieve harmonisation of national legislation in the field of intellectual property with European and to improve the implementation of the right of intellectual property. The strategy should also contribute to the creation of a social and economic environment that will benefit creative and innovative work, better protection of business secrets in all its aspects, resulting in a more favourable climate for the faster economic growth of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, for what we are really progressing, and this is the arrival of foreign direct investment. To remind us that in EU accession negotiations, the Republic of Serbia has opened Chapter 7 - Intellectual property law, so it is necessary that the protection of business secrets in the Republic of Serbia be brought into line with the relevant EU directive. Why is the matter of business secrets and its protection important? Because protecting business secrets protects investment by operators who are resting on the application of knowledge, experience and other information that provides them with the advantage of competition above all. Industrial intellectual property is valuable intellectual capital of economic operators, investment and creation in the application of intellectual capital of economic operators, but also innovators and inventors protect intellectual property rights by patent, design or copyright, as well as the protection of access to knowledge that is valuable to the economic operator and is not generally known. So valuable knowledge and experience, as well as business information that is undiscovered and designed to remain confidential, actually, is a business secret, what we're talking about today. Business secret protects different types of information relating to the economic operator, such as the production process, business plans, financial plans, advertising strategies, market survey results, supplier lists and clients, drawings, architectural projects, construction plans and much more. Also, data on the texts and results of research and research are a special type of business secrets. In addition to this, it is important to underline that all creative creations that protect intellectual property rights can also contain a commercial secret that has commercial value and which as such should be protected from all acts of unfair competition. Factors affecting the value of intellectual property vary and depend on them how much those who dare to usurp someone's industrial or intellectual property or copyright have the motive to do so, that is, to profit first of all, which is the goal. The question of determining the value of intellectual property today is of great importance, as it is estimated that the immaterial activity with intellectual property, as its component, today accounts for as much as 75 to 80% of the company's market value. That's why intellectual property is attractive to those who would illegally want to make a profit. If we know that stealing intellectual property, according to the EU Intellectual Property Office, costs European companies over 60 billion euros, then it is clear what is the importance of protecting business secrets, i.e. industrial intellectual property owned by companies. The point of protecting a business secret is to legally sanction any act of unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized multiplication, acquisition or use by a third party, confidential information that has the status of business secrets. Business secret plays an important role in the exchange of knowledge between research institutions of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the goal and which is something that we have to put an accent on, especially when it comes to the private sector, because small, micro and medium-sized enterprises are the bloodstream, they are the future and they are actually, let me express myself with that vocabulary, on their shoulders they hold most of the state apparatus. It is also used to protect the finding during the patent application process, as well as data that the patent does not cover or cannot be patented. Unlike other industrial property rights, where certain formalities are to be fulfilled in order to ensure data protection through a business secret, it does not require any formal registration of those data and therefore the protection of a business secret does not involve the conduct of an administrative procedure to establish a business secret. It is also important that this new law regulates the conditions under which the acquisition, use or disclosure of information representing a business secret is considered legal and under which it is considered illegal. So we can conclude that the new bill represents one more quality and qualitative legal framework, one step forward, a huge step forward, which should primarily enable more effective countering the abuse of business secrets according to harmonised standards with the EU. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7106	Thank you. Minister Angelka Atanaskovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7107	Thank you. I would like to comment on your exposure to the economy and the situation in our country at all. As you yourself have concluded, I will not repeat the figures, but the entire government, along with the President of the Republic, is working to improve the living conditions of all our citizens throughout Serbia. You can see for yourself that we don't even have a week to work and how much he invests himself, so we and the whole government have to invest themselves in his path and together follow everything he does, build as many roads, hospitals, schools, and you and businesses. You said yourself that our investments are still coming to Serbia, we have the arrival of ambassadors of all the countries asking to invest with us, which is very favourable. No job shut down, no company shut down, and that's very favourable with the investment, i.e. The assistance itself of over eight billion euros given to Serbian citizens through all these types of assistance in the covid, shows how advanced Serbia is, and that the GDP drop alone is a minimum of 0.9%. So, below 1%, it's the first place, minors in Europe. We are the only country that has managed to save its population with a vaccine, to save the economy and have a minimal decline in GDP, which is really none of them have been able to do. I think even Switzerland envys us for this kind of organization, even the inoculation in the country and the saving of its population, at least I have that comment, all the ambassadors who come to visit me and in the talks say they're impressed and congratulate us on all this. Serbia is taking big steps forward, we just need to get more active as citizens, to be aware that we must all make a contribution and we will return to the time when Serbia was a concept in Europe, and also in the world, as well. Anyway, thank you for your kind words.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7108	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7109	Not a replica, especially gratitude for your involvement in the debate and for commenting on what I was talking about. I want to fully agree with you in the conclusion that the pandemic period has shown the true strength of thespring policy. And not only did he show the real strength of Serbian politics, but he, above all, united the region, and the president proved to be a factor in political stability in terms of uniting the region. It's not just about donating tens of thousands of vaccines, it's about, first of all, trust. Another suggestion. So here we are talking about an economic policy that is primarily socially responsible. That is what is extremely important for the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, and we will always support that policy. What does an economic policy that is socially responsible mean? It is an economic policy that has in its centre a common man, a Serbian citizen. We've had our chance here to talk to the representatives of the Fiscal Council, who always have an analysis. We never wanted to put pressure on independent regulatory bodies. Our goal is to strengthen independent regulatory bodies and it is perfectly logical that at certain times they have the opposite opinion of the government and of the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's the point of being if you don't? But it's always useful to talk, and it's always useful to have a dialogue, so, among other things, we've had suggestions, actually criticizing some kind of nontransparentity. Well, when was it more transparent if not between March and today? Some kind of indiscriminateness? Well, when was it more selective, if not this period? And we had a review that was sent, 100 euros that was provided to every adult citizen. Please, that is not the measure invented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, all the world economies used that measure, and Japan, and America. The International Labour Organisation also says it is a measure that contributes to poverty reduction in Serbia. I can only conclude that those who speak so against poverty in Serbia and the representatives of the Fiscal Council must understand that a tighter policy is not a magic wand. We're talking live politics here, and living politics are these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7110	Thank you. Otherwise, the replica of the Rules of Procedure is prescribed form for this kind of dialogue, so we understand each other. Before the next speaker, let me share one piece of information with you. So, you have just received the resignation of MP Jelica Sretenovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of reviewing the resignation, which has determined that the resignation was the case of Article 88(3). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Jelica Sretenovic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. Now, I'd like to call my colleague Anna Chapić, who's next on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7111	Thank you. Dear Minister, respected citizens, distinguished fellow MPs, the topic of today's debate is the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. At the beginning of today's debate, the Honorable Minister explained in detail the bill we are discussing today. We also had the opportunity by colleagues of authorised representatives from other parliamentary groups to hear all the advantages of the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. What I want to say at the very beginning of my presentation is that the Republic of Serbia is on the European path. Accordingly, we have made a commitment to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to bring our legislation in the field of intellectual property protection in line with EU legal assets. I will remind all citizens and fellow Members of the People's Parliament that on 20 June 2017 we opened Chapter 7. The Law on the Protection of Business Secrets is currently in force, but the current law does not comply with the EU Directive of 2016. Also, the applicable law does not adequately protect investors and detimulatively affect investments, especially when it comes to scientific and research activities, and for these reasons it is necessary to adopt a completely new law in this area. The intellectual property development strategy provides, therefore, for the strategy for the period from 2018 to 2022 to adopt a completely new law on the protection of business secrets by the end of the second quarter of this year. We all know very well that since the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to the government, the Republic of Serbia has become a serious state. The government of the Republic of Serbia respects all the deadlines and obligations it has towards both citizens and businesses, as well as obligations arising from international contracts. With this in mind, by adopting a brand-new law on the protection of business secrets, we will respect our commitment from EU accession negotiations. In addition to precisely defining the concept of business secrets, the legal solution has regulated the issue of legal and illegal availability in business secrets. If an investigative journalist publishes some information that is in accordance with citizens' right to notice, it is not considered a breach of business secrets. Also, if a union representative when representing workers' rights to the employer finds out a business secret and it is not considered a breach of business secrets, by the union representative having an obligation to behave in accordance with a collective contract and not to declare the business secret he has learned to third parties. The paper of the law is that business secrets will protect information such as the production process, such as client lists, suppliers, advertising strategies. This was discussed in detail by my colleagues, counterpart Milicevic and co-worker Jevtic. What I want to tell you is that some information would be considered a business secret, it must have a commercial value. It must bring some income to the employer in the future. In accordance with the law, the employer is obliged to protect the business secret by adopting an adequate manual on the protection of business secrets, then to mark certain documents as a business secret, to limit access to business secrets, and so far it has not been the case. What is very important, and it represents the paper of the law, is that the holder of a business secret is given the opportunity to state by suing that certain information be made public by means of public information and the cost of the defendant has not been the case so far. This, therefore, is the advantage of this legal solution for the reason that future perpetrators will be deterred, but also will awaken awareness to the general public about the importance of business secrets. What I think is most important in the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is that this legal solution will contribute to the repression of unfair competition, on the one hand, and on the other hand it will act stimulatingly on both domestic and foreign investment precisely to invest in the field of scientific and research activity. What I can say is that the government of the Republic of Serbia since 2014 has taken a number of measures and activities to combat and the grey economy, but also unfair competition. Here I primarily think of the digitisation measures that have been actively implemented since 2014, and here. As far as foreign investment is concerned, Serbia is an absolute leader in the region in terms of attracting foreign investment and of all investments, I mean the sides that blend in the Western Balkan countries, as much as 65% end up in the Republic of Serbia. And what does that really mean for our country? It means that a rule of law has been established in Serbia, means that we have high-level security, means we have developed infrastructure, we have professional and quality personnel, because these are precisely factors that attract foreign investors, and Serbia is ahead of the Western Balkans compared to all other countries. For Alexander Vukic and SNS, attracting foreign investors and foreign investment that are being realised means the growth of gross domestic product, means the creation of new jobs, the growth of living standards, all citizens of our country, and for the previous government, the inflow of foreign investment meant selling state assets below the price, with all the money from such investments, to call investments, ending up in the accounts of politicians from the previous regime. In contrast, only Aleksandar Vukic has opened over 230 factories over the past few years, and these factories have enabled us to have a higher standard of living and GDP growth. All the factories that have been opened in the past few years have been mostly export-oriented, and we were best able to see for ourselves on the visit of Aleksandar Vukic to the Czech Republic, when information about our trade exchange with the Czech Republic was made, and not only was trade exchanges between the Czech Republic and Serbia doubled, but Serbia achieved a surplus in trade with the Czech Republic. The biggest exporters in the Czech Republic are the obrenovočka "Meita", the Shabaki "Jasaki", the Smederjevska želica, "Habis", then the Johnson Electric, and these are the companies that the SNS built from foundation to roof. These are the companies that Aleksandar Vucic brought to Serbia and just those companies have achieved more than 635m euros in exports. These are really great results, because export means growth, means the strength of a country. So I was just talking about our trade with the Czech Republic, and I didn't mention Germany, which is one of our most significant foreign trade partners, I didn't mention Russia, China, or other countries. What I can tell you is that our investments, both domestic and foreign, are geographically spread across the country, and that is what allowed us to return to pre-crisis levels in the first half of last year, more precisely in June, when it comes to industrial production. As for GDP, we returned to the pre-crisis level in the first trimester of this year, and these are really excellent results. In terms of crisis, economic measures worth over eight billion euros, a strong inflow of investments, huge investments in the realisation of infrastructure projects, we managed not only to preserve existing production capacities, but we also opened new ones. And that's exactly what made it possible for us to grow even 16.6% in the first trimester of this year. In the first quarter of 2021, Serbia achieved a surplus on the balance of payments, which never happened, and our surplus value is 160m euros. That is a billion and 100m euros more than in the first quarter of the previous year. Those are really great results. When we look at other countries, unfortunately, which are facing huge losses and production and service capacities and with huge job losses, Serbia is indeed ahead of everything we have achieved in 2020 and what we will achieve even more at the end of this year. What I'm trying to say is, because of all the matrimonials who take care of Serbia's public debt, that our public debt is under control. Serbia, too, had the least public debt increase in 2020 under the conditions of the crisis. In order to be absolutely clear, I'll make it clear that during 2020 we increased public debt by only 5.4%. Why am I just saying that? Well, because Europe's most developed countries had an increase in public debt of more than 20% compared to GDP in 2020. Here I think of France, Italy, Spain, Cyprus, Greece, and also countries from our nearest environment, such as Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, had an increase in public debt of over 15%. I really feel like economists are degutant to hear some politicians and economists from the previous regime talk to us about public debt. At the time of their government, public debt reached up to 78% of GDP, and what is worst of all, not one single dinar from the loan invested in the realisation of infrastructure projects, to create conditions for these same debts and to repay. They pushed all the money out of the loan into consumption, which is really crazy, and that's how they pushed us into a vicious circle, where we met in 2020, in this situation we were threatened by bankruptcy. Today, we are told about public debt by politicians whose time was the value of GDP, so GDP was lower than 32 billion euros. We are under the conditions of the crisis caused by the coronary virus, in conditions where we had a catastrophic flood in 2014, in conditions when we found a catastrophic situation in the state register in 2012, we managed to increase GDP by as much as 55% and our GDP today exceeds the value of over 50 billion euros. Those are really great results. It is also degutant for me to hear that some economists and politicians who had while ruling this state's inflation rate are giving us a lecture over 15%. We managed to maintain a low inflation rate in times of crisis, and it was 1.2% in 2020. These are really excellent results, because we have thus preserved macroeconomic stability and have preserved the real value of citizens' income. Speaking of citizens' income, I will present the information published two days ago, which is that in March we made an average profit in Serbia of 555 euros. Let's just remember in 2012 the average profit was 330 euros. It is the responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS. What I find very important for the citizens of Serbia is that we will end the year with a higher economic growth of 6%, otherwise 6% is a projected rate of economic growth, if we continue to implement infra-cultural projects, and there is absolutely no reason not to continue and if we continue to attract foreign investors in the future, and there is no reason not to attract them, there is absolutely no reason. In order to overcome projected growth of 6%, it is necessary to continue the vaccination process in the next period, in order to recover in service activities as soon as possible. One of the biggest successes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, I believe, are the economic measures we implemented and implemented during 2020 and this year, because the economic measures were precisely timely, well-coordinated, comprehensive and thanks to them, we created such an economic environment that the economy gained more profit in 2020 than in 2019 for as many as 433.6 billion dinars. These are really great results that we've achieved. Thanks to these results, we have created the conditions for us to have the highest GDP allocation to realise infrastructure projects so far, as much as 7% of GDP is defined in 2021 for the realisation of infrastructure projects. We've been really listening to a lot lately, to say freely, nonsense from certain economists and politicians. On the one hand, they tell us that we do not need to increase profits in the public sector, so that we do not burden the budget of the Republic, and on the other hand they tell us that our professional staff is leaving the public sector due to low wages. I don't think it has anything to do with reality. First, any increase in earnings, whether in private or in the public sector, is multiplying, and it is returning to the Republic's budget through taxes and contributions and precisely thanks to the creation of a good economic environment, we have strengthened our private sector and we have made it possible for us to increase profits by as much as 42.9% in the private sector since 2015, while this increase in the public sector was significantly less -28.4%. We have managed to reduce the profit gap between the private and public sectors and many more citizens are being employed today in the private sector, which is the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For SNS, the success is the recognitions that come to us from all international institutions for the economic results we have achieved in the previous period. For us success is hundreds of miles of highways we built in the previous period. For SNS, success is when the President of the Republic opens a factory in Priboj and asks the workers - how many of you are working in the house and gets the answer - we all do. Let's just remember what the situation was a few years ago where more than a third of the working population didn't work for us and where we had a bunch of families where no member in the house worked. Today, there is hardly a city or municipality in Serbia where something has not been done or built. It is my municipality, the municipality of Kursumli, because of the poor political previous government, that is classified in the category of devastated areas, and only in the last two years have we received the factory of the dedicated industry, we have also received a domestic investor in Kursumlijska Banja and Kursumliska Banja will, after 17 years of collapse, host the first tourists at the end of this year. Those are really great results. What is happening today in Serbia will be written in history, will be taught in schools and in colleges as an example of good practice. This is exactly what I was talking about, precisely because of this parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vulić – will support the draft law on the agenda for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7112	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vulic – for our children. The word has an economy minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7113	I thank you for your support. Since I spent almost 40 years in the economy, many of you are young, and not that period, fortunately, do not remember that time, perhaps only their parents, when in the previous regime everything was closed, means maltenes in each city at least one factory, and in many and more. So I shouldn't mention big centres in Nis, King, even Trieste at my place, in a row everywhere, but here in Belgrade. Every city had at least one factory and they were all shut down and destroyed. It is fortunate that Alexander Vukic is at the head of our country and our party and together with the government is working on an accelerated pace, with the power to get at least one factory back, so that people, as you say, work at least many families, so that there will be no poverty anymore, but simply to look at the better. It's really working, I have to say, to bring investors, not just foreign ones. I have visited many cities so far and there are many good and domestic businessmen who are doing great and a lot of people are hiring, you have even up to 300 workers, who are hiring, have exports up to 90%, so in Serbia there is really not ten, but 100% times better, perhaps more than in this previous period. I must say that our Ministry of Economy is working, in addition to these capital infrastructure investments, relating to roads, hospitals, all of these other major investments, right on this infrastructure local improvement where local self-government can come and create a practical place for investors. We help them here with our free funds, our part, and part of the Development Fund where they make, practically, a position for some investor who would come to us tomorrow, because every investor is looking for a place that suits him and that has, besides, infrastructure to have a workforce. That's where we have to work on that labor force. So, I've had a lot of these conversations with businessmen who complain about the lack of labour. While, on the other hand, you have 5,000 unemployed on the Bureau, which is not normal. If you have 5,000 unemployed, and you don't have labour, there's something wrong or they won't work, there are cases like that, and there are cases where the national service hasn't regulated it all. We also have this road ahead, but so many investments that have come to Serbia in recent years have not come to any country and, most importantly, we still have so many contracts and pre-contracts. Today we'll sign with the German firm for Valjevo. It means only improvement in Serbia. Along with the president of the entire government, he's working on it. All these laws that are passed are a prerequisite for better business and for ensuring all these companies that are coming to Serbia, and also for our path to the EU. All this effort, which we all do from the government, to pass new laws, new law annexes, anything to do, is about improving conditions and getting better investors. Anyway, let's get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7114	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups reported in the system, we are moving on to the list. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7115	I would like to begin by saying that the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, will vote in favour of all laws on the agenda. I want to thank the minister who recently visited the Sanjay municipalities. We also saw each other in Prijela. We had this joyous event in Priboj where a hotel and a new company were opened. You were in Nova Varosha and the Shadow. We were together at a meeting attended by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. We heard what he said. You've also heard the support of the citizens of the government's politics, the politics of the president. You've also heard my discussion with the president. What we expect, I ask you, I appeal, the Sanjay municipalities await one big investment. We're happy about the success of local self-government in Priboj and that's proof that we can, we don't have a highway, we're building a highway, but let's see from what we can do that these citizens don't leave their centuries-old hearths. We have a good attitude between citizens living here, because it's an international, interethnic environment, people living well, and let's send a message from the position and government and from the position of parliament. I know, and I've seen how devoted the President is and the Prime Minister is, I can see that with you, but I'm asking you not to wait for a new visit, but to see what we can do with the lines from which he owns the ministry, with the position of affecting investors and domestic and foreign communities to open up a company in those municipalities. Thank you again for your hard work and your energy and your good message and the good faith you've shown so far. The law is very good, and I'd say necessary. Why? So some narrow specialty I'm dealing with is quality control. We just needed one of these laws. You have a situation of industrial espionage, we've had a situation where workers film by drive, send it to the media, try to put pressure on their owners and others, we have a situation where a worker works in quality control, retires, and then drinks in some way that prescription, and that's something that can't be allowed. Why is the growth of our economy, the serious companies we have here not, how can I say, both in the region and in the competition accepted in a way that they look forward to too? And we have to preserve the brands that we have here in all areas, especially the food production that I normally do closely. I think this law was very necessary, especially in this time of industrial espionage, and I absolutely welcome it and we'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7116	I thank the People's MP Samir Tandira. Time remaining for the parliamentary group three minutes. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7117	The law on the protection of business secrets is one of those laws that we agree with the legal assets of the EU. In that sense, I would pay greater attention to the fact that what has been put into account, which is that we are acting in accordance with Article 75. We agree on Stabilisation and Association Agreements and in the field of intellectual property to bring our legislation into line with the right EU assets. However, in addition to these laws that we cannot have any objections, because they represent what is a good course of the EU, which is to settle the relationship between intellectual property and the protection of people who achieve something in their lives and work, gain some knowledge, have the right to have these knowledge of protection, that is one of the fluids of the protection of individual rights and everything that the EU is in its root and ideologies, on which it is created, just to say one more thing that is important, I cannot, because of the limitations of my time to elaborate it, but it is about the fact that in modern political and social theory, the idea of hyper protection of intellectual rights is not accepted everywhere and is not so raised to the pedestal, as people who push us towards the EU. Especially the peoples who have experienced colonial slavery, who have been pushed into poverty and poverty, because these peoples who are making the EU today, as colonial masters exploited centuries, are not in the mood to protect the intellectual property of their corporations, I mean the corporation of the Western world, because this means that these peoples that have been robbed through the centuries will never be able to get out of their poverty. This looks like a principled debate and a principled story that shouldn't concern Serbia, but I want to draw your attention to the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets, as well as this hyperprotection of intellectual property, is primarily due to foreign investors and foreign corporations. So, one thing is that this is how you protect one small, micro and medium-sized family enterprises, and the other is when they protect a multinational corporation that comes from NATO countries, from EU or US countries. These corporations, gentlemen, took part in supporting their countries when they bombed, beat our people, destroyed our economy, seduced our sanctions. So, these countries might have the same treatment for us as colonial metropolises for colonies where they're in charge, which means if we have so much positive discrimination today, let's just say about gender equality, why if we're a sovereign country, we wouldn't introduce one level of positive discrimination on corporations coming from countries that remain in our debt of war damage, which killed our people and which, even in that robbery privatisation, which you often mention, after two thousand years, have earned from robbing our economy and our people. Let's apply the full extent of this protection of business and of any other secret, intellectual property to our domestic economy, to the economy of friendly and neutral countries, to small, micro and medium and family enterprises, and not to give this protection to foreign corporations coming from countries that have destroyed this country. It's an idea you can accept, and you don't have to. There is one other which is a much better idea, which concerns these other laws, not the Law on Business Secrets and the Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property, which are laws which can and can be accepted, which is the idea that those laws that cause big problems in our society, and as regards compliance with the legal assets of the EU, as they were last week, Comić's laws, such as in the end the Act on Excises which makes the brandy more expensive than whiskey, so as to meet the import lobby, destroys our brand, that in all these laws we do something that Mr. lawyer Goran Petronijevic gave as an idea, which I liked, which is to introduce some kind of social protection clause, that we agree with the EU, that we only introduce that their fact begins on the first day after Serbia's full membership in the EU. If we are a sovereign country, let's ask them to, that when the laws come, we adopt them, we say – the first day after Serbia's EU membership will start with a fact. So let's say the Excise Act, so different laws and thus protect our society from what a large part of our citizens see as harmful to our society. If you are in the mood for such ideas, I am at your disposal, and I think it is high time to restore the sovereignty of Serbia that has long been taken away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7118	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7119	You probably didn't listen to my exposure, but that's what the IPR says. So our law comes into force after entering the EU. It's already done, so that part's done. There's no need to move on. For the other laws, I'm really not in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7120	Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7121	Thank you. Of course, and that's why I don't have a dispute with this law, and I'm not going to vote against it, but I've been talking about other laws that are very problematic and that should be put in place like this law, which, regardless of this ideaal position I was just talking about, I think we should adopt whether or not we'll ever be members of the EU because we and our society need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7122	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7123	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, as my fellow MP has already noted, we will support the adoption of a new Law on the Protection of Business Secrets. In the modern business world, the growing importance of the business secret and the exclusivity it carries is the dangers of revealing business secrets are real in the internal environment, in the very environment of a business subject, but also from an external factor. A number of efforts are made to find ways and measures of protection within the very business entity that will allow primary protection of business secrets, but these protection measures are often shown as insufficient, and therefore there is a need for a stronger norm. As regards the protection of business secrets in the EU, old solutions have been abandoned, where the case has been in the jurisdiction of national legislation and thus the differences have been overcome and there is now a single system of rules. The current domestic law governing the protection of business secrets is not in line with European practice in this area and the adoption of a new law we are harmonising this area with demanding and high European standards. However, we in the Single Serbia believe that the basic benefit of this law is not to meet the demands that Europe has from us, but above all in mechanisms that protect the interests of domestic economic operators. This law will regulate and improve business secrets from illegal procurement, and so on. Business secret holders will have more protection, but therefore greater obligations and responsibilities. The law defines what features one information or information should possess in order to treat it as a business secret, to define more precisely the concepts of a business secret and to make clear the difference between legal and illegal acquisition of information regarding a business secret or the disclosure of a business secret. This law also adopts a newspaper on the very sanctions, as infringements of business secrets will be regarded as a commercial offence or will be regarded as a violation if committed by a natural person and for these offences and violations of the law foresees appropriate penalties. I would single out that creative creations protect intellectual property rights if they contain elements of business secrets, and the law also protects intellectual capital, patents, design and copyright. What is new and what needs to be pointed out is that the law also provides protection for entities whose activity is not primarily commercial. Here we mean some civil associations, scientific and research institutions, associations dealing with innovation activity. The business world always tends to protect its secrets that are always important primarily because of competitiveness. In the business environment, the protection of certain data is permanent, so a proper legal framework in this sphere is necessary. The business secret must be maximum protected and we believe that the adoption of this law will achieve such an effect. In the end, I'd look back on a situation that's been going on for over a month. It is a fictional process aimed at humiliating and total degradation of the president of Unity of Serbia and which is highly politically motivated. For a month now, a man has been tried in public space and speculated on the basis of a series of lies that have been made, each of them being disproved by written evidence. Once again, we believe that the authorities of this country will do their job and we believe in the most recent conclusion of this false affair. Meanwhile, Unity Serbia and its president continue with its policy, which has always been and will be the custom of citizens. The public is aware that in a week's time in our organization 600 people, 500 doctors who worked in the curvature zone, go to Greece, to Paraly. By the end of the month in Jagodina, a Chinese factory for the production of plastic granules will be fully completed and what is important is that 100 new jobs will be opened there, and German Fisher will open in Jagodina a factory that will employ 350 people. Once again, the Single Serbia MPs will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7124	I thank the People's MP, Zagorki Aleksic. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7125	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister with your associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the bill we are discussing today concerns keeping a business secret. This area represents a specific mix of economic law, civil law, civil-processing law, intellectual property rights and other areas, which speaks enough about its complexity, but also the importance for modern economic and economic flows. So I think it is a good thing that, independently of our obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with the European Union's legal assets, we have decided to refresh this area legally. In my opinion, it was done in a very good way, by being significantly wider, but also far more precisely in the new law defined the key concepts, and above all business secrets, as a set of data that are not generally known to persons who, in the context of their activities, come into contact with such information, who have commercial value, whose legal controller has taken reasonable measures to preserve their secrecy. The business secret is only one area, regardless of what is this wide-ranging, in the overall system of secrets of this country, in which we have different degrees or degrees of secrecy in certain areas, in which part is actually the highest degree of state secret, we all know that. I think that, given even some of the reasons of this law, it could be applied to the overall problem or area of secrets in this country, which says that all today that has been mentioned in many sessions, that the progress of this country, from economic and even in all other areas, has changed the conditions and needs of keeping secrets in general. I'll say one thing, when we talk about business secrets, business secrets aren't just in these areas that we listed here and listed, I'll say as a man who spent the whole working life in these jobs, we've had and we have, in the course of the calculation with so far never so strong organised criminal groups, and organized crime implies in its definition the mandatory existence of relationships with state institutions or organisations through individuals or officials etc. Now I'm asking you, we're following the Belivuk gang, what the authorities are doing -- is there a cop in contact with such a group who's been revealing certain day-to-day tasks they're getting towards that group, is it just a state or some other secret, or is it a business secret? It is a business secret, first of all, in its root. So I think and suggest that the government should, maybe even tomorrow when we have a meeting with the government on these issues, say something about it, as it is now accessed to this segment of the system of secrets, meaning, only on business secrets, that the same thing should be applied, perfected, specified, expanded, united, strengthened in all segments of secrets as such. I don't think that without it, we can put this society on a more secure basis and defend against the greedy beasts of various forms and as an area and way and the possibility of attacks and ino-factors and internal enemies on everything this country does in its progress. So I think that, let's say, and when it comes to the national security strategy, here through this law, we have now, the bill, seen that protecting the secrets of all degrees and shapes is one of the basic pillars of the national security system. That's why I think we should approach perfection, so to speak, to take that expression, all the legal regulations regarding the secrets of all degrees and, of course, pay particular attention to the roof law in that area. I think the national security strategy itself is precisely why, for many other reasons, it needs to be reconsidered, set on a different basis. Today's national security strategy amongst national security holders also sees the media, for me very, very discreetly, at least until we get them better and we pass laws that will have to behave differently. On the contrary, many media are on the side of those who want bad to this country and they cannot be the bearers of national security. All that I'm saying, just some examples that require a change in that sense. So I think it's in this area, that this law and its significance is in what it has set in motion, which has made us see some things that we haven't been paying attention to so far in protecting, protecting this country as a whole, its progress and greater unity. New provisions, these in the laws that have been given, bring very significant improvements in a very important, I said, segment of our system of economic law. This law proves that we are keeping up to date with modern regulation in this area, which will contribute to maintaining the reach of confidence of foreign producers and commercial houses in our legal system and market, and of which our citizens will benefit most from providing better products through cheaper and better quality. Therefore, and for many reasons, the other PUPS Group "Tri P" will give its full support in the day of voting for the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7126	I thank Parliamentarian Borisavo Kovacevic. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7127	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear Minister, with associates, respected colleagues, one cannot remain immune to the discussion of my dear Bora Kovacevic, because it is one of the problems, you have taken a good look at it, it may not fit very well from this distance in terms of the economy, but you are absolutely right, there is a source of the problem that is most harmful to the state system. But let me go back to the proposal for a law on the protection of official secrecy. We are discussing today, and he has two key objectives in my mind, except for this first one, which is the harmonisation with, above all, European legislation in this area, the second one is somewhere, better protection of our industrial intellectual property. Simply as company values that allow better positioning on the market, which are defined and kept as an official secret, i.e. as data inaccessible to the public and to competition. Our legislation defines the official secret as information that would lead to abuse or theft, cause or cause adverse consequences by the holder of the official secret, whether it be a company or a certain service. This law deals with an official secret that is in office of companies, thus also economic development of Serbia, while an official secret relating to the security issue of human and minority rights has been regulated by other regulations. There's that difference I'm talking about, but really both official secrets are immeasurably important. This Law on the Protection of Official Secrets is treated as an economic regulation, first of all, and its essence is seen as an aspect of the impact on economic potentials. We will agree that intellectual and industrial property is a significant economic resource, and that the application of inventions and other products of industrial and intellectual property are the basis for any progress and there is almost no dilemma. Besides, if there were no industrial innovations and patents that improved production processes, we wouldn't be moving much further away from what is pre-industrial time today. The creativity and the innovators themselves, but also researchers and scientists, have led to a faster industrial and economic development of society. The importance of innovations and patents and other forms of industrial property as intellectual property today is particularly reflected when capital gains peak at global level, so stealing and counterfeiting may be more present today than we had in some earlier period. So today, when we go shopping, we always wonder if it's original or if it's a fake, or if it's a copy. Most often they steal trademarks or patents, and that's the primary copying of the product or somewhere people's words, the original forgeries, that's pretty much what it looks like. Industrial espionage has become a lucrative profession. The thieves of the original works of industrial or intellectual property are unfortunately rich in moss on other people's ideas and projects. This theft of industrial property is today especially present in the fashion world. It's just that today in the shoe industry and the clothes on the copying charge, I think they're, uh, less on the daily level. The phenomenon of copying exists on a global scale. Those who copy originals mostly make huge sums of money on other people's copyrights and it's hard to protect. We are witnessing that today we have more and more of those copies that are really difficult to distinguish from the originals, especially if you don't commit yourself. Especially if you don't make an effort to make a difference between what's a copy, which was found on the market from the originals, except that even those copies know how to track originals, assuming we won't be aware that it's a copy or at least a naive consumer knows that when he recognizes the price maybe sooner and thinks it's the original than it is a copy. So all of this copying of other people's patents, i.e. industrial property products, is present at all levels in the food industry, also, certain products of recognised and famous manufacturers and copy in this area. Products of identical appearance appear to be branded and even with similar names and names, so that customers are unequivocally placed in serious error. We have an example that the family business for making sausages "Heck" for copying, recently accused its products of "Aldi", which means that we are somewhere in step with the world and Europe when it comes to copying and stealing patents. Many experts today view intellectual industrial property as organised crime. That should come down to it. Against this, it is necessary to fight in an organized way, i.e. protect all of these creative authors and companies who own works of industrial intellectual property. The legal basis for protecting the economy from stealing industrial intellectual property in Serbia is certainly this law, the Law on the Protection of Official Secret, because every information on innovation, invention or creative work is a company secret that enables the company to compete and diverge in the market. When it comes to Serbia, it is very important that this law gives us an improved legal framework that should provide a stimulating, business and business climate, modernization of the economy and affirmation of creative personnel and companies. Certainly, I believe that the law protecting the official secret of businesses by EU standards will be much more stimulating for investors themselves, both domestic and foreign, because they can use their innovative potential more safely, without fear and prejudice. By doing so, at the end of all ends or at the beginning, perhaps most importantly, they contribute to the rapid development of our economy, which is a common goal for which you are here today, as well as for all of us. We have many original branded products that identify us beyond the borders of our country. Unfortunately, where we did not have a legal origin or brand in time, others copied us, so we came to the stage that, unbelief or truth, the Slovenians branded ajvar as their product, Czechs, Germans, Italian plums, Swedish football cheese, Iraqis, etc. For all these reasons, Serbia must and should take more care of branding and protecting its products, especially those with a geographical indication, because I think they are significant and that is our immeasurable economic potential. I don't think we're even fully aware of the potential there is. This applies to all our companies, entrepreneurs, and individual copyright owners, who should also be cared for. Companies can only be protected if they have registered trademarks. It's a good thing we finally recognized it and that this bill will improve us. I will remind Serbia that the current Law on the Protection of Official Secrets adopted in 2011, so how long, ten years ago, and in the meantime 2018, a strategy for the development of intellectual property was adopted for the period until 2022, which also defined strategic objectives. These are national harmonisation with European legislation. That's what we said. It is one of the basic motives for this law to be passed in the field of intellectual property. It should be stressed that this obligation stems from the fact that we have defined ourselves as full EU membership, and that we have already significantly improved this area. It also confirms somewhere that the opening of the negotiating chapter 7, concerning intellectual property, is open. The second strategic goal, I said at the outset, is to improve the implementation of intellectual property rights on home ground. The third important objective is to education and raise knowledge transfer capacity in the function of improving the implementation of intellectual property in the economy. Without the need to deal with individual law solutions now, I end up illustrating the importance of protecting the official secrets of our companies, through the data presented in a study entitled "The contribution of works based on the copyright of Serbia" which shows that in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in all countries, there are entire sectors of business that rest on the exploitation of copyright and related rights. The overall participation of all creative industries in creating the GDP of the Republic of Serbia is 4.61%, according to data. The largest share of 3.10% is crucial. These include printing and publishing, music, cinematography and video production, radio and television, photography, software and databases, visual and graphic art, advertising services, collectively achieving copyright and related rights. The listed industries create more GDP than mining or food-based services, approximately the same as the financial activities of insurance or electricity supply. Now, in total employment in the Republic of Serbia, creative industries participate with 4%, creative industries that employ over 90,000 workers, according to data that I have. These data confirm the need to adopt a new legal framework in the sector of protection of the official secret, i.e. the protection of our creative sector through intellectual and industrial property, as the huge development capital of our economy. In that sense, I absolutely support the adoption of a new law on the protection of official secrecy and your efforts to regulate this area, which is, out of everything that is said, not only in my discussion, but even more before me, a strong potential that needs to be nurtured, but above all, protection by the legal frameworks. The SPS MPs will certainly support the bill's amendment. That's what my colleague Djordje Milicevic said, but it's not the burning again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7128	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7129	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, honourable MPs, respected citizens, this great law regulates the legal protection of business secrets against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. It provides reasonable measures for these countries to maintain confidentiality and information. Of course, what matters is that this is a new law and is in line with EU legislation, even a prerequisite, and then it's even brighter by bringing it in. I will shed a little different light on, above all, abuse and this law so far, and I suppose even when this law is brought to abuses in the future. So, back two years after Gilas's free robbery party exists, the party and its officials are constantly illegally supplying, using and revealing business secrets. So that's what Marinika and Gilas do, and God forbid, Jeremic, Alexic of the People's Party. If they lived in an EU where such laws exist, they would have been processed by now, they could be happy to live in Serbia and this law has not yet come into force. I hope we apply this law. So, besides illegally obtaining business secrets, they fill them with lies and then place them in the media. We have seen this in the cases of Telecom, Krusika, and many others. Gilas's party is illegal, so they're sections of this law now, and you can see exactly what the Gilas and Gilas are doing. Gilas's party is illegally accessing, adopting and multiplying documents that are under the legal control of the business secret holder, containing a business secret or a business secret from them can be carried out. Gilas's party is acting unlawfully because the SP officials know that the business secrets they have obtained have been obtained directly or indirectly from another person who is illegally benefiting or revealing business secrets. When it comes to Gilas himself. So he has declared his companies' business since 2004, a complete secret, and so has the ruling Democratic Party. I mean, it's an incredible hypocrisy. Gilas has been misusing and publishing other people's secrets, and he's been hiding his secrets illegally since he was four years old. Only Verica Barac there somewhere in that 2011 report, so in total by 2012, little was able to break up that veil of secrets that shouldn't have been a secret because DS and Gilas were covering up a 619m-euro mega heist, a mega heist of Serbia and Belgrade's budget. Why? Verica Barac and the Anti-Corruption Council have just said that Gilas and his companies have done little and no business on the market, and that his companies have been completely dependent on the budget. Dragan Gilas, by the way, happened three days ago and there were no words about it, and it is important that, through his portal "Nova S", he again targetd Danil Vukic, the oldest son of Serbia's president three days ago. So, two days ago, the portal "Nova S" was published in the sports section at 22:00 hours text that is usually six-page long, called – where football concrete is the innocent, and the author we have never heard of, Strahinja Nikolic. The text deals with a cheerleading match at the concrete hall. The text is usually nonsense, one salad, which has only one goal, which is to target Danil Vukic. The text is published on the cover of the portal "Nova S", where Gilas is co-owner, and at the beginning of the text there is a photo of Danil Vukic. And Danilo Vukic had nothing to do with the events in "Beton Hall", but the editor of the site and this journalist deliberately inserted him into the text to make him a target. From the very senseless and chaotic text, the statement by Mark Poledica shows that Danilo Vukic has nothing to do with the above mentioned event, but then he asks a reasonable question - and why did they insert him, his photograph and his name, and why they brought him into contact with this violent event, with which he has nothing to do with it? So, with the sole purpose -- to target it. I have already proven here in discussions that the portals "directly" and "New S" are portals of lies and deceptions and that it was established by the press Board's Board of Appeals for two complaints that I filed against these two portals, so one of them had to publish it, that they were liars, and the other was not, since "New S", the alleged portal of democracy and professionalism does not recognise the press council. Such false news is being published on these two portals every day. So, on a daily basis, they publish the most monstrous lies about Danil Vukic, Andre Vukic and, of course, President Vukic himself. Both portals publish lies and inventions of the Belivuk mob clan, the armed wing of terror, that Danilo Vukic is involved in the affairs and conflicts of the cheerleading clan. And why are these portals targeting Daniel Wolfie? Well, in order to harm the President of the Republic and prevent him from, among other things, his fight against the mafia and crime. This is all the drawing of the target at the head of President Vukic's son, and it is done by the owner of the portal "Directly", which is Dragan Gilas, who is the owner, and otherwise co-owner of the School's two TVs and the Nova S portal. This directs Dragan Gilas with the family of Aleksandra Vukic. We in SNS will never deal with the children of Dragan Gilas. I ask the question - will any competent authority, some institution or some NGO protect Danil Vukic's human rights? Does Danilo have human rights? Danilo Vukic, a son, a grandson, a brother, must be protected just as the children of Dragan Gilas and Marinika Choban Zivka. Gilas' portals "new S" and "directly" have decided that Danilo Vukic has no human rights and that he needs to be dehumanized and liquidated. I ask the question - did Gilas give direct orders to the director of the portal "Directly" Đorđa Stefanovic and the rodent "New S" Veselin Simonovic to publish these two lies that I listed about Danil Vukic? A few days ago, actually, 22 again. Gilas gave an interview with his new S portal. In that interview, the title was given on purpose - the wolf was mentally ill by a man. It was on the cover again, and that was also on Nova S. Gilas TV in the interview says, falsely, that it never offends anyone, and immediately in the same interview, Gilas tells the president twice that it's a mentally ill man, and that's why - because he cares about the people and at 11.00 a.m. he visits the construction site of a new covid hospital. Am I to point out that the president's behavior is precisely this, President Vukic's praise and grand because he cares about the people and cares about health and at 11 o'clock he visits a new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, which is beyond the need? I'd just ask you, since I own information, do you know what Dragan Gilas is doing at 11pm? Dragan Gilas tours his huge safe at 11pm with millions of euros in cash, watch out, "in cash". And at 11pm, when it's over, that tour, then it sits for the computer and on the internet checks its 57 accounts in 17 countries where it has 68m euros. Now, that's what Gilas does at 11pm. The people, of course, don't give a shit about him, as well as the hospital. That Gilas is telling the truth, that he never insulted anyone, I'll give you two out of 10 cases. Dragan Gilas is 19. 1st insulted and cursed students from the Marks 21st group in words, I won't say it again, it's a curse, j... You mother, so he said a homophobic curse. Then three. 5. In 2020, at the time he was crying and snooting like a donkey, when the whole town was running for his name, he threatened the president, and I quote, "You're a jerk, you're a sick bastard, you'll pay eventually. "And then Gilas says and shamelessly tells the lie that he never insults anyone. Gilas mentions both Mrs. Christmas and Mr. Orlic and I in that interview. Gilas says, "What would I do about dialogue," where he won't dialogue and he initiated dialogue, "What could I talk to Bakarec, Orlic, Sandra Christmas and similar, there is no dialogue with them." I personally, and we all here in the Assembly, have nothing against dialogue with Dragan Gilas. I'd like to ask him a few questions. In the beginning, the question of how did he become rich in performing three government functions, and did he become rich in abuse of office or trade in influence? In addition to the questions I raised, I'd ask Gilas a few more questions -- did he mentally suffer that thief and fascist who knocks down houses for thousands of Roma, then dump them in containers in the woods? Did he mentally suffer that thief who beats his pregnant wife and threatens to cut her head off? Did he mentally suffer that thief who beats his ex-wife's old parents? Did he mentally suffer that thief who constantly threatens others to lose his job? Did he mentally suffer that thief who keeps coming at others and cursing them? And how much a liar Gilas proved on the 22nd, on the same day that he gave this interview, on his main committee, which he practically declared, I barely got to that video, officially secret, and I'm going to say only three big lies. Gilas admitted on the main board after three years that they were his main men, quote him "in the organisation of the protest in 2018". And three years earlier, when these protests took place, Gilas claimed that he had nothing to do with these protests and that it was organised by students from the Five Million Movement. So three years later, Gilas admits to telling a lie. The other truth is, Gilas says: "Absolutely they do not respond to the truth of the claim that the opposition is divided and quarreled. Even the sparrows on the branch know that the opposition is unequal." And even the Jilassian media aren't trying to hide it. The main lie that Gilas made on that occasion and declared official secrecy concerns the SP rating. So, all the facts and research, and there are two, both Ipsos and Factor Plus say that Gilas' party has a 4% rating. Gilas, on the main board, argues that his free robbery party, if the elections were now, would have won 40 MPs, which means they would have at least 12%. So Gilas has already given himself three times as much rating as he has. Then, five minutes later in an interview, or on the main committee in his speech, Gilas goes on and says – we will win the elections. To win the elections in Serbia, you must have at least 40%. So, we see by one easy procedure a completely transparent delusion, Gilas raised himself from 4% to 40%. In doing so, Nikola Tomic, editor at the Time List, so the opposition journalist, visiting on TV N1, said nicely that this is pure self-deception and that the opposition has no chance of winning even in Belgrade in the next election. So, that's how Gilas heroizes himself with his own delusions. If he were brave, and he wasn't, he'd run with the president of Serbia, but since he's a coward, he's going after Marinika as a scapegoat. I'm done with this. So, we're witnessing that a coalition of deaths took place in preparation for the election a few months ago, namely the symbiosis of cannibals, thieves, his Pedophile spokesman and his butcher. It's a coalition of the political and armed wings of the mafia and terror. The coalition, of course, leads the tycoon and the thief. In the upcoming elections, the programme will include cannibalism, butchering, "cevapi", thieving and paedophilia, so whoever loves, go ahead. The thief is usually surrounded by a woman with no last name, surrounded by a man with no name and a criminal driver who drives 66 kilos of marijuana in a truck, a criminal brother-in-law who drives three kilos of cocaine in a car and a fine-ass criminal Japanese. Otherwise, the nation's top scorers are already mentioned cannibal, butcher and professor of paedophile. Cannibal, by the way, is in charge of partially financing the collapse of state money from drug trafficking, and this same cannibal loves "cevape". By the nature of the job, the butcher prepares you, by the name of the quote, the kevapa, for the cannibal himself, and the butcher himself was in charge... (Chairman: People's Parliament, come back to the topic. I'm done. And the butcher himself was in charge of bringing together an army of criminals. The goal was to take over the state for the expense of a tycoon thief. For the last sentence, to paraphrase the famous song Psychomodo pop-dark stains of the past on Gilas' white shirt, the washing machine of the future will never wash. To end up with something brighter, President Alexander Vukic is currently treating the past, in the name of the future. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7130	Dear peoples of business, I ask you, with the cooperation of all of us, to raise the reputation of this institution and therefore that you all take care of words, expressions, quotes, etc. whether you're quoting someone or not, and we're really talking about the subject of the agenda. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7131	I just wanted to make my point based on Mr. Bakarec's exposure. So I'm personally in politics and personal life against bringing the family into any kind of conflict or debate. I find that really rude, and it's not human nature. If you have a duel with someone, then you should discuss it with them, not others. As for writing or the opposition's allegations at all, they can write whatever they want, talk whatever they want. President Aleksandar Vukic is the leader of this country and will surely win the election with his government. His works prove it with everything he's built, and he shows his works, and by saying that at 11 o'clock he visits the workers, it's evidence that all the citizens of this country see. Simply, the welcome he experiences in any city, anywhere, whether it's Belgrade or some smaller place in southern Serbia or worse in Vojvodina, is proof of how powerful he has and how much support the people, which is the most important. So, both Gilas and everyone else can do whatever they want, nothing's gonna help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7132	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7133	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. These laws contribute to improving the overall economic environment and business, which is something that is based on the Justice and Reconciliation Programme and one of the key reasons why we, of course, support everything else as MPs this and all other laws that go in favour of giving equal chances to people who want to change, in a positive sense to create a new reality and to produce what is quality, which is good, which will make it possible to improve the overall standard of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here it is very important, in my view, and the most significant part of these legal frameworks is the protection of intellectual property, because it was a space that we did not have in this form protected and in this form give a chance to young people, before others, who deal in business, in economy, that these creative achievements of protection to this extent and that they have benefits before that. Here, first of all, I think of personal intellectual property, in terms of various types of patents and others, as well as something that is collectively owned by a particular company or firm, and especially in the IT sector, which is one of the most significant fast-growing economic branches in our country. If we don't provide them with this kind of protection, I think they'll be in danger of being swallowed by the great mega-gigants of the world in this area. So this is very important and will allow them to further create, and we are fantastic by creation, and in many ways these technological parks contribute. In fact, it should be one of the intensities and, of course, the expectation to spread it all over the country, that in Sandzak and Novi Pazar we get one such technological park and that in fact all that is done for the overall improvement of economic conditions of life we feel in the space of the entire state, and this is the way to it. So, healing the economic environment, giving equal opportunities to all young people, people from ideas, from creations, to protect their intellectual property, because in fact they build visions of their own future and visions of the future of their people and society in general. Without this kind of protection, they are exposed to impactes, with which they alone, individually, cannot cope and cannot be equally competitive with those who have extremely great financial and other influential powers and who often take their idea for no money, and in business, as we know, is the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7134	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7135	The President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, respected co-workers and fellow MPs, is more of a reason to pass this law. One of them is the harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation. Like most of the laws we've passed in this house so far, we'll bring this one, I hope. Another reason is to improve the implementation of intellectual property rights. I will explain the other reasons for this law further in my presentation. To make it clear to the citizens what we're talking about, I'll explain the concept of business secrets. Business secret protects different types of information, such as production process, business plans, financial plans and advertising strategies, market survey results, supplier lists and clients, drawings, architectural and construction projects and designs, etc. The data on tests and test results are also a special type of classified data which the person controlled by law must disclose when submitting the request to the competent national authority for the authorisation of placing on the market of medicinal products, i.e. medicinal products or agricultural and chemical products using new chemical compounds. Business secret and confidential information are the vessels of the housewives of many companies and almost all of them have it, and statistics show that most of the data declared as a business secret is threatened by internally inadequate protection mechanisms of the company. Patents and copyrights are often visible forms of corporate intellectual property. The business secret should be maximum protected by legal mechanisms and by raising awareness of the importance of it. In order to be a business secret, the information in question must not be known to the public or persons outside the company. Information must be kept secret enough to provide a real or potential economic and business advantage or benefit to those who possess the information. The new law improves the existing system of security of business secrets, thus protecting investment by operators, providing them with an advantage over competition. Such valuable knowledge and experience as business information undiscovered and intended to remain confidential is a business secret whose protection is a prerequisite for protecting the interests of persons who are subject to business secrets economically exploited. The law provides a clear definition which data can be considered as a business secret and which conditions should be met in order to be considered the same and protected by this law. It is also arranged under which conditions the acquisition, use and disclosure of information which constitutes a business secret is considered legal and under which conditions it is considered illegal. The provisions contained in this law constitute a legal basis for civil and legal protection in the event of a breach of a business secret. The proposal is also to sanction the breach of business secrets as a commercial offence if it is committed by a company, or a responsible person in it, and as an offence if committed by a natural person, i.e. an entrepreneur. The law is so designed that it will aim to potentially reduce the number of civil legal proceedings due to a breach of business secrets, as it will deter competition from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. More exceptions than cases that may be considered illegal by obtaining a business secret have been prescribed in relation to the applicable law. It will not be considered illegal when a business secret is obtained by illegal detection or creation or observation, study, separation or testing of products or objects available to the public. Also, it will not be considered illegal to obtain a business secret by disclosing it by journalists in order to inform the public about issues of public importance, as well as the disclosure of business secrets by workers to their representatives in the context of protecting the performance of the representative, provided that disclosure of business secrets was necessary for the legal exercise of the position of representatives. The draft law will have a direct impact on all economic operators with an interest in keeping certain information confidential or in the public interest should have unlimited access to the information provided. It's about companies, scientific and research organisations, agencies that do marketing services, union associations, journalists and the like. The bill has many benefits, some of which are improving the protection of business secrets, as well as the process of exercising rights in the case of illegal disclosure, procurement and use of them, all of which increases legal certainty and significantly protects the economic interests of a person who economically exploits information that is qualified as a business secret, as well as a positive business climate. The proposal for this law, and I hope its adoption, is another proof that we are a legal and orderly state. Since the SPS has been in favour of a legal and orderly state since its creation, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7136	I thank the People's Parliament. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7137	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and in the first place an esteemed citizen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as I come from a city that, thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, has survived and has become a mining and industrial centre of domestic European and global importance, the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is of paramount importance both for the employer and employees of RTB Bor, now Serbia's Zijin Copper Doo and for the Institute of Mining and Metalurgy in Bor. The co-operation that will be accelerated by this law between these economic operators is reflected in the following. Serbia's Zijin Copper Doo Bor has idea projects, while the Institute of Mining and metallurgy fully integrates the feasibility study, consulting, economic evaluation, risk assessments, as well as nostrification of the project, translation and alignment with the laws of the Republic of Serbia in the fields of geology, mining, metallurgy and technology. The seriousness of projects and security of both domestic and foreign investors will be reflected in this law that will strengthen civil and legal protection of business secret holders, on the one hand, and their responsibility, on the other. For the first time, scientific and research institutions and citizens' associations have been introduced into the system of protection of business secrets, because previously, by existing law, it was primarily commercial, i.e. industrial activity among those producing products, while information exchanged by scientific and research institutions with economic institutions has not been protected as a business secret. In the time in which we live, information becomes crucial, often far and far most important, but also the most expensive resource. Through business secrets, investment is being protected and investment and knowledge is now enabling better competitiveness in the market with more quality and innovative products. They are now introduced, with the exception of commercial violations and sanctions in the form of violations for natural persons, entrepreneurs, but also for individuals who come to business secrets, not engaged in any business or other research activity. The holders of the information considered classified in the obligation are obliged to mark the documents by the term ‘business secret’ or ‘storage post’. “, make rules on business secrets, restrictions on access and physical and electronic specific files or objects, things, materials and conclude confidentiality contracts. Without these elements, reasonable safeguards, to be clear, there is no business secret. It is in the contract of work, the company's internal acts, the collective contract that introduces the clause. Each of these information must have a commercial value. It makes perfect sense because if you invest big money in something, you rightly expect a certain profit and profit. The Imperative on the protection of public interest shall be examined in the following. By revealing the business secrets of large businesses, it can be very serious, even to the extent that it can disrupt economic, social and social flows. In that sense, there is no administrative procedure, there is no interference of the state administration in that segment, but the court assesses the importance of the procedure. documents. In addition to the protection of economic operators, employers, the state was thinking for the first time about employees. In fact, there are certain exceptions in the law that we have before us when it will not be considered illegal disclosure of secrets. These are the cases provided for in Article 17 of the Law. They're the new i.e. They did not exist as such in the applicable law, which refers to lawyers in the process of representing clients and what is particularly important, that is, that I specifically singled out and commended at the committee's session, that there were cases of employees, especially at the time of the Democrats, being forced to sign documents in whose regularity they suspected, so that they would not be left without a job. Now they can in the process of representing themselves to reveal business secrets to their union representative, whether it is the conduct of a disciplinary procedure or the appearance of some other negotiations with the employer. For the sake of our citizens, I must stress the following. These provisions will apply within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law. The seriousness of the business world is reflected precisely in protecting business information and keeping business secrets. It's very important, both for the company you're working with and for the business partners you're working with, especially when it comes to protecting national interests. That's why I'm going to give you an example from practice. The process of delivery, the transfer of gold to the National Bank of Serbia is carried out under the security of the MUP, so that even an employee in the company, who is in charge of transport, does not know how much he drives or when he drives. The sales information is available on the website, but the delivery process is strictly confidential. This shows that in the business world, trust between economic operators plays the most important role. Given its importance, in the day of voting with my party colleagues from the legislator group, Aleksandar Vukic, what is most sacred to us, for our children, I will support this extremely high-quality proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets and I will give all praise to Minister Atanaskovic and her law team, which, in accordance with the EU directive, will now comply with the legal framework of the Republic of Serbia with international law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7138	I thank the People's Parliament. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7139	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are considering the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, the fundamental role of which is the legal protection of business secrets, of all actions and unfair competition, which represents every business entity action done in business competition, which is contrary to good business practices and which can be done or potentially harm to competitors, consumers or general social interests. The protection of business secrets protects the investment of operators involved in the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information, which provides them with an advantage over competition, and everything is governed by the right intellectual property. In accordance with the abovementioned, knowledge and experience and undiscovered business information, which is intended to remain confidential, constitute a business secret, and the purpose of its protection is to legally sanction any act of unauthorized detection, multiplication, acquisition or use by third parties. The business secret is information, not any one, but one that provides its holder with a competitive advantage on the market and based on which it generates some competitive value. Some examples include information concerning finance, computer programs, internet marketing data, business plans, customer lists or suppliers. For example, imagine a company that is involved in the production of mobile phones and that society is able to carry out research to discover a mechanism that can produce less material and less time the same number of mobile phones on a daily basis without affecting the quality of the product itself. The company that would succeed would thus reduce costs, maintain the quality of the product and, on the other hand, increase its revenues. It is normal for such a company to want its own mechanism, which it has discovered, protected and declared a business secret. The business secret should be maximum protected by legal mechanisms compared to internal and external actors. The way to keep a business secret depends on the form in which it is located, paper or in electronic form. Electronic documents are normally stored in computer files, encrypted and without access to unauthorized persons. The risk of theft also depends on an estimate of the value of the protected information itself. It is up to the owner to take appropriate measures to protect by setting up a password or any other obstacle to accessing data on a computer, by restricting access to information only those persons who, in order to carry out their work, have to be familiar with it, by signing a confidentiality agreement, by indicating that the document itself is confidential. Taking measures is necessary because it is a condition for the legal protection of business secrets themselves. The minister also spoke about it, and I think this law defines cases in which the procurement, use and disclosure of information that represents a business secret is legal, and under which conditions it will not be legal, and hence, in a certain way, legal form and expectations are created, and for both employers and those who are employed, who sign a certain act of business secrecy, what it is is is a business secret, or what they may or may not reveal. Unfortunately, in practice there are often abuses of business secrets, and there have been numerous examples daily. This law will sanction the business secret as a commercial offence if it is committed by a company, and an offence if it is committed by a natural person, or by an entrepreneur. I hope that in practice we will also have mechanisms to enforce this law into action. When we talk about stealing intellectual property, it represents a nightmare for many companies and business people who run their companies and can mean taking away the advantage of first market entry, loss of profitability in the most extreme, or worst case of overall business in favour of competition or forgers. The creator of a certain piece of intellectual property has the right to enjoy the benefits of his work and the absolute right to decide when and how he can use his work. Unauthorized use and use damage is done to the manufacturer, which is further negatively maintained on the company's business and position on the market. We live in a world of digital technologies, and using the Internet has never been easy to access information and use it unauthorizedly. From what is mentioned today, the protection of intellectual property has become increasingly important, perhaps even more important than ever before. According to data from the EU Intellectual Property Office, stealing intellectual property only costs European companies about 60 billion euros each year. Usually these parts are about stealing patents, protecting signs, unauthorized copying in the fashion industry. In terms of legal protection of business secrets, it is important to say that there is a document of public policy in our country, which is the Strategy for the Development of Intellectual Property for the period from 2018 to 2022. The strategy provides for the adoption of a new law on the protection of business secrets, which is also necessary in order to further bring our legislation into line with EU law and in this case, the negotiating Chapter 7 relating to intellectual property rights. The adoption and implementation of the law I am talking about today and the implementation of the Strategy will contribute to the creation of a social and economic environment that will affect the rapid economic growth of the Republic of Serbia and the arrival of foreign investments. We're still a country that doesn't have a sufficiently developed world about the importance of protecting intellectual property and business secrets. It is important that we talk about this topic today and once again I want to point out how important it is to protect business secrets in order to achieve benefits both our citizens and our companies operating in our market. So we need to continue to create fair market conditions in order to allow those who are the best and who operate on it and win both of us and the state and its citizens to bring it naturally and Benefit through it. In any case, the SPS Parliament Club will support this law in the voting day and we will vote to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7140	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a large part of the discussion brought by my colleagues, I could agree with them, not all of them, with one section spoken of by one MP who does not support this government, there are many reasons why I would disagree. It seems to me that always in some political struggle that someone should have, it seems to me by their assessment, the EU attacks itself and thus achieve certain points. I do not agree that the EU is absolutely regulated in the sense that there is everything we like, but in one part I have to agree that it is a society which has certain standards at this time and how the Republic of Serbia fits. The other thing that matters about this lawmaking is that the law regulates one substance that seems to me to be in Serbia in the last 20 and perhaps even more years, it was completely in the other plan. Our former regime is attacking that a large number of young highly educated people are leaving Serbia. I wouldn't agree with that. There are less and less of it, but I would also like to go back to that time that has caused a large number of problems that we have today and that despite all these results, which both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its President Aleksandar Vukic, we still have problems that we are facing. So, during the former regime's government, our citizens did not leave Serbia to gain new knowledge, but fled Serbia to achieve any existence. This was unfortunately also with our young experts and people who had just finished their colleges and who expected the opportunity to contribute to the development of Serbian society in the economy or to another research institute. During the former regime and the authorities of Dragan Gilas, this was not possible in Serbia. To make a parallel between our government and their government and those migrations and the population and labour force and investors, it is enough to just say that during the rule of the former regime, for example, "Ju-es style" left Serbia, he fled Serbia. That even theirs and such a great ally, the man who earned the most money during former regime government Miodrag Kostic fled from Serbia to Ukraine. Now watch the state of Serbian society, the Serbian economy, when a Serbian tycoon businessman, however, has to flee to Ukraine. To be clear, I see Ukraine as a friendly country, but because of its internal problems, the order of the market is much weaker than in Serbia today. Then you can imagine when their ally, a man who influences policymaking in Serbia, eventually flees to another country. What did that look like? What did it look like with ordinary citizens? Tens of thousands were leaving Serbia annually, 70, 80, 90 thousand were even a year. No need to be surprised, during that four years near half a million of our citizens are out of a job. What does this have to do with this law that regulates the protection of business secrets? Well, you know what, business secret and it is market-related research, but it's usually some variable category and it's for a certain time at a certain point certainly to have its price, but what has one much more lasting value is scientific research. So far, scientific and research work has been entrusted mainly to our state-run scientific and research institutes, educational institutions and a large number of young people, not more like the time of the former regime, when young people left Serbia, because they had a purely financial moment, a motive to leave Serbia, today we have a very different situation. The financial moment is no longer decisive, even more so, for many young people and the reasons why they leave Serbia is that they are eager for new knowledge, for the continuation of their training and for their expertise, and just so far in Serbia we have not had institutes that would enable them to develop and learn. By this law itself, we are in fact encouraging that those investors who are in Serbia, whether they are from Serbia, whether they are foreign investors, to create a legal framework for them to start their scientific and research work. Of course, it's their interest. You, Madam Minister, come from a company that had previously had its own research sector and we have proven that our people who worked at that time, in that company, were able to deal with companies that had far more money and resources and that we are selling our knowledge into a product on the international market. It seems to me that precisely because of your company and co-operation with Boing, the JAT then received the first serially produced "boing 737". It just says how important scientific and research work is and how important it is to keep young people, young experts in Serbia. Our domestic institutes aren't enough for that. Thank God, we have many very smart and highly educated people, and our goal is to build a legal basis through this law to protect scientific and research work. Not only the state institutes, but the private companies located here in Serbia. We already have our first steps on this, we're already opening scientific and technological parks, etc. And that's one of the most important consequences. That's what I was saying in the morning section. Perhaps even more important than the financial protection of intellectual property itself, the secondary consequence that young people will stay in Serbia, work in scientific and research institutes and thus contribute to the development of Serbian society. Whether companies are foreign or domestic, it remains in Serbia, their knowledge remains in Serbia. It seems to me that no one in the former regime understood that without serious scientific research, no serious investment in science, no matter who invests, there is no development of a society. That's why we had earlier years during the former regime, the situation that tens of thousands of young, educated, educated people were leaving Serbia. To make grief bigger, these are the people who have yet to make the most of their contribution to the society they came from, but have not had the opportunity, because the system established by Dragan Djilas, Miskovic and others have not given them the opportunity to stay in Serbia and contribute to the development of Serbian society. As much as my colleague who has something against the EU is his thing, he attacks such a legal proposal, on the contrary, as much as it is a European law, he strengthens Serbian economy, the Serbian economy, strengthens our society, and gives what is most important, motive and opportunity for our young, eager knowledge, the desire to perfecte, the desired sciences to remain in Serbia and to fulfill their wishes in Serbia. Whoever doesn't understand it is his problem, and it is up to us, whose citizens have shown confidence, above all, to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, to us as MPs, to work exclusively in the interest of these citizens, and not to, as it was during the former regime, our citizens leave Serbia and the money that belonged to those same citizens ends up in private accounts of those who then exercised power in Serbia. First of all, I mean Dragan Gilas, but he's not the only one. Unfortunately, these times have passed, and it is up to us to build modern Serbia, a modern state, that this country will take its place in Europe and the world it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7142	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7143	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is a completely new and modern approach to the problem in line with the development of technology and the digital world. The most significant change in the new law is the one relating to the very definition of illegal acquisition of business secrets. More specifically, it extends to 2011 laws, covers all cases, and according to the EU's directive in scientific and research works, industrial, commercial activities, citizens' associations. So not only is the definition of business secrets, but also the situations in which it is protected. The law on the protection of business secrets simply protects the knowledge in which it is necessary to invest. This law will lead to harmonisation with EU directives and laws and the improvement of intellectual property rights, namely, the closure of Chapter 7 of the EU accession negotiations. Changes are important and necessary when we talk about the protection of intellectual property rights, as is the strategy brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2018 to 2022. As the main objectives of the strategy are harmonisation with European legislation, raising knowledge when it comes to the protection of intellectual property, protection against courts, prosecutions, inspection bodies, police, customs. Law violations aren't rare. It happens every time someone publishes a photo, quotes from a part, doesn't sign the author, takes a logo, design without the author's permission. So I would remind myself that the concept of intellectual property refers to literary, artistic, scientific works, performance, interpretation of works of art, inventions, scientific discoveries, industrial patterns, models, stamps, names of plant variety. These are absolute rights to the spiritual, immaterial creation of man and as such enable the owner to exercise power over them, so that third parties must ask permission from the titler, i.e. the owner for the use of his intellectual property. The publisher must not publish the book until the author has allowed it. The manufacturer of the purse, the shoe must not use other people's models as samples, i.e. to make the same models as his business competitor. The moment the author creates the work becomes copyright. Copyright usually violates the media by publishing photos without permission, because the fact that something is on the Internet does not mean that it can be used just like that. Significant and consistent protection of intellectual property strengthens and economies, I am sure, the Republic of Serbia. The overall participation of all creative industries in the creation of GDP is 4.61%), including: printing, publishing, music, cinematography, software engineering, graphic and visual art. I would now also refer to the story of my colleague, Snezana Paunović, from the SPS, who spoke about the importance of protecting the geographical label and how important it is for our territory. Well, here's the good news coming from the forest, protected as a special kind of brandy - forest plum, the regional association of the brandy producer first got to use the geographical indication of the origin of the plum from the forest climate, as a unique rakija. Since we are also talking about the protection of business secrets, as primary protection of intellectual property, I think it is important that it is about the education of judges because of the novelty, but also the arrival of completely new digital technologies. What I would single out, which is particularly important for us Social Democrats, is that the proposed Law on the Protection of Business Secrets will not affect the acquired rights and obligations of workers prescribed by the Labour Act. To be precise, it is not considered illegal to disclose business secrets by workers if it was necessary to perform the role of representatives, or trade unions. For all these reasons, as well as the importance of regulating the business environment and a healthy market and sound competition, SDPS MPs will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7144	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7145	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, is the business secret of the life of a company, businesses, organisations or a business society. It represents any information that has a commercial value, which is not generally known, nor available to third parties, which could benefit by using it, or by making a statement. The business secret can refer to both economic, financial production processes, certainly scientific and technological processes, to the results of research, studies, tests and projects. Business secret is one important feature of every company, but what we have to say is and must be taken into account and the fact that any information that cannot be a business secret cannot be a business secret that information used to conceal a crime or abuse of official office or some illegal act or act by a legal or physical person. When I read the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, it was in this segment that I thought of a bridge on Ada. The 996m-long Ada bridge, made of concrete and steel, 20m-high, cost close to 400m euros. The then Belgrade City Assembly, whose mayor was Mr. Dragan Gilas, somehow hid that fact for which the bridge cost so much. We know that we can make so many miles of highway, say Preljina-Pozega, or, for comparisons, since I often cross the bridge to Adi, and I've been to Istanbul several times, so it's over the third bridge on Bosphorus that connects two continents, Asian and European parts of Istanbul, joins civilizations, whose length is over 2.2 kilometers, has a range of 1.5 kilometers and is over 350 meters, costs a little more than this bridge on Ada. Well, that business secret wasn't supposed to be hidden by society. It is information of public importance, information that can serve as an abuse of the official position of the then leadership or former regime. That, my fellow citizens, would mean that Dragan Gilas loves that old saying - the left hand, the right pocket, or the left hand, account on Mauritius. For this very reason, the company's business secret must be protected, in accordance with the company's law and business policy, by contractual obligations and appropriate standards, which protects its secrecy and thus could cause damage to the business secret holder. Every company needs to document a business secret, make a business secret rule, have systems to protect it, and every employee should also be familiar with a given rule and familiar with the consequences in the event of a business secret. The draft law provides for the definition of business secrets, i.e. to specify which information and under what conditions can be considered a business secret. This law proposes that if a business secret is broken, that is, if a breach of a business secret is committed, in terms of a company, it is a commercial offence or if it is committed by a natural person or an employer. The business secret is, as I said, the breadth of every company's housewives. It protects investment by operators, because business secret is actually one of the most significant and most specific means of protecting knowledge, information, process and technology. On 8 June 2016, the European Parliament, at the initiative of the European Commission, adopted the Business Secret Protection Directive, which was incorporated into the national legislation of the Member States of the European Union, with the aim of protecting them from unfair competition. The draft law that is before us today includes in our legislation the Directive of the European Union, which is one step towards our European future, and I will support the proposal of this law in the day of voting, together with the other MPs from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7146	I thank the People's MP Svetlana Milijac. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7147	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I welcome Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Next up is Marjan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about the abnormal state of affairs, the secrets. A country where military secrets and state secrets were public, and public procurement was secrets. So this practice that these unfortunates, who allegedly boycott the National Assembly, still apply to them, does not apply to me. I will also give you examples of how military secrets have become public, and how public procurement has become secrets from the near past, just to describe the model of the behavior of these poor people who serve money, not their own country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, you have a good memory, you remember Alexander Obradovic anyway. This is the case if it happened in the United States or in another country, which put pressure on our country and our country and our leadership, on various grounds, realizes that in Serbia they have helpers and anyone who wants to bring Serbia down can't bring it down from the outside unless they find someone who can help them from the inside. Alexander Obradovic's case, a false alarmer. Why the fake? Because someone who works in the military industry can't be an alarmer, in terms of media intelligence, etc. about irregularities, that someone has to go to the authorities, to the prosecution to report the case, which, of course, he didn't. For him, the authorities of this country represented nothing, but let's say the Bulgarian portal, which worked for its country, while it worked against its state, found it printed and published in news that was so propaganda and served its purpose. When you make a hero out of spies, then NUNS, imagine NUNS, NUNS, military industry, state military secrets, etc., NUNS gives it to some medal or some special recognition by Alexander Obradovic, who betrayed states and military secrets. If someone gives Bulgarians information from their company, stealing from colleagues, from computers, it's not just a business secret, given that it's a military industry, and for me it's both military and state and last secret, in three senses. So it has to be protected triple. If someone tells the type of production, to a foreign Bulgarian company, i.e. the Bulgarian newspaper, a Bulgarian journalist, if she tells potential buyers, if she says the type of weapon purchased by potential buyers, if she gives a list of all arms dealers, who are very sensitive and who do not want to know the name, name of the company, etc., because they trade in weapons, and the weapons go to war, the weapons go to hunt, where animals are killed, but in the main Kursik produced weapons that were used for the military. We didn't invent wars, we're always victims of wars, we're always, instead of living for ourselves, fighting for others, and passing, as victims, but that military weapon, of course, goes where wars are and where supplies are to be filled, to prevent wars. It's a very sensitive industry, and, behold, miracles, former regime, of a casino spy who can't, by definition of the law, be an alarmer, have tried to make a hero, and, behold, NUNS, General, NUNS rewards one spy. And I'm searching the NUNS and I find out that it's funded by Dragan Dilas with six million dinars, the NUNS has become house assistant Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and so on. Beta didn't go far either, but I'll describe it in the marketing of that, the RTS, when the lady from Brussels, and the contracts with a certain lady who is the wife of Editor Beta and so on. There are various intertwinations in the public sector, and we haven't gotten rid of the former personnel even supplementing them. Imagine someone who betrayed military and state secrets and became a hero, a proud owner of the NUNS badge, decorated him with NUNS because he betrayed the state, because he betrayed Krusik and so on. Let's see what the background is. At that time, Bulgaria's dedicated industry, Mr. General, you know, had a 40% drop in sales, and Serbia had growth. Krusik had 1,500 employees during the rule of these unfortunate people who are not in favour of them now, so during their rule Krusik had 1,500 employees, traffic was two and a half billion, income, in dinars, and after their departure from power, Krusik grew. Bulgarians fell, Serbia's dedicated industry grew, and the Lucians attacked. It grew to 11 billion, five times as much revenue as it was while the company was running, behold wonders, the mother of the alleged alarming officer, and actually spies. Look, the spy's mother was the director, she hired him and her daughter, and while she was working, who knows what they were doing, they could probably get that information out legally, but since mother wasn't the director, Bulgaria's intentional fall has been growing. Look at the miracles, the alarmer doesn't even inform ours, maybe he's not allowed to do that, the alarmer under the quotes, the spy. It would be called anywhere in America, in any country, if he picked up that kind of information from his computermates, gave to foreign journalists, every country considered him a spy and a traitor. Only in this country were some who ran the country, dipped tanks and weapons, who made our army a well-armed army. We were no longer military neutral for their time, General, we were militaryly neutral, we had one moment without a battery. It was their policy, defence of the country, and so on, with the great Sutanovac, from the pastures of Belgrade, which were more important to real estate and so on than that the defense had the appropriate weapons, that it had a combative certainty and so on, to be the force of conversion so well armed. Instead of arming the army well, they disarmed her well. Instead of being military neutral, we were militaryly neutral. Malten, the army was a military orchestra or a group of Pere Clumsy, nothing more. And, lo and behold, we grow up, Bulgarians fall and mother's son appears, whose mother was no longer a director, no longer a crash, but from 1,500 workers to 3,500, means 2,000 families get bread, pride, etc., pay, but they want to bring it down. The income from two, two and a half billion is rising to 11 and it is obvious that these outside Bulgarians were not satisfied. In order for them to grow again, something had to happen. And after the alleged affair of Obradovic-Krusik, Marinika-Dilas, what is happening is that the Arab Emirates, I think Saudi Arabia, are canceling the contracts, as arms trafficking is very sensitive and does not like the public media, which the Bulgarians knew very well. They're cancelling it nicely and Krusik is losing his 80m-euro job. Since it was Alas rockets, Krusika's co-operant remains without 120 employees. So 120 people stopped eating bread in Krusik in production, a cooperative company, I don't know exactly what it's called, there's some kind of abbreviations, but that's the damage nobody paid for. Our judiciary feared the political pressures of the marines. Political activity can't be an amnesty for treason and spying, it's impossible in any country, no one would allow it, but our prosecution and our courts are stretching. They walk, they lead as heroes and I think even if these judges and prosecutors knew, maybe some of them and they co-opted on that spying, etc. For a handful of money, you shouldn't betray your country. Now let's talk about the other part. So I was saying that in Serbia during the former government military secrets were public, and public procurement when they question public procurement is secret. In fact, you know that Dragan Gilas was a fog dealer, that is, a man today talks about freedom of the media, and that he has captured all the media, marketingly, on the market, he was the only one who placed commercials, he had exclusive contracts with all the media and Studio B, which was the city house where he was mayor and with RTS. So there were production shows, Multicom, Emousens, Direkt Media, Saint Peter, there's no one who hasn't gotten into the register with a public service. Public service your right to know everything. But, let's say, more shows were placed there, so multiply from 13,000 euros plus part of the advertising market, says like this: "48 hours wedding" that's his, bought by RTS, because they didn't have three cameras to shoot weddings and take money like that, but the three cameras had Emoushen, Multicom, etc. So they went, recorded the wedding, and all this time it was all about covert advertising. They go away, they shoot the wedding, they learnt it from those photographers, everyone who had a wedding takes a camera, etc. He's taking three cameras, let's see how young he dresses, etc., dressed in that boutique, here's a drink obtained at this company, etc. It's all covered by advertising. For example, a total of 670 broadcasts, of which, watch out, and on Pink he ran, of which on Pink were about 34, 16, somewhere over 500, almost 600 episodes went on RTS of his "48 hours wedding", that was his production allegedly produced. That's when you multiply by 13,000 euros, you get about 7.5.8m euros in revenue by selling to RTS, not only 48 hours in weddings, but others. Multiply it by 13,000 euros, plus a certain advertising space that he got very cheap and sold very expensively. Since his advertising space was the cheapest, cheaper than it was in RTS, then he captured the media, printed and electronic, whoever said something wrong, he couldn't get from his direct media agency, to get the right to use the commercial that he was printing and broadcasting and in such a way that he was earning money, but where Gilasa didn't touch, where the yellows didn't touch, and then those media houses, they got, it's called media capture, and it's called media censorship. Media censorship through the advertising market, so because he had the cheapest commercials, he could have given a commercial to certain large companies, than they could have bought in RTS. He was cheaper. They were buying from him. He then represented the best brands, had a breakthrough in all the media and said, you know, if you want an ad, then you have to write that I am the best, the best politician, that the bridge on Ada is very cheap, although the calculated value was 112, then 160m euros, and in the end cost 450m euros, and even without a tunnel, it still takes a billion to get him in full function, so write that it's the best project, so Tadic and I will walk with the citizens, and we will cover the world's most expensive bridge, which brings together two Belgrade meat communities, which in principle translates thirsty across water, and everything is beautifully written about that bridge, although it was a classic robbery. That consulting firm, I was showing here, she got tens of millions of euros, and if she hadn't done anything big, it was about pumping money to share profits somewhere in Cyprus. He did all sorts of things, but he did nothing for the city, which sat at 1.2 billion euros, right, Mr. Martinovic, unmistakable liabilities and loans. He said afterwards, you know what, the loan was so much, and he forgot that he didn't pay around 700, 800 million, the commitments that the new government had to settle, debts and loans were obligations that the City of Belgrade had. Now that he's failed in public business, he's been very successful in private business. So, public procurement was a secret, and I'm going to prove it. There was nothing big about this, and I took it nice and asked Bujosevic a question, and at Bujosevic for Nasha cowboy's sake. Nenad Jankovic cowboy, he was a member of the RRA. He's the co-founder of the SBB, the School's firm, believe it or not. As he came to the board of directors of RTS, previously from the RRA, Goran Petrovic can confirm which second founder of the SBB in Kragujevac and he can also confirm that, and he is now in REM, and they are well placed to keep an eye on the work of Gilasova and Šolakova, which was essentially founded in Kragujevac in 1996 in 1997. They set themselves up nicely, the former government, and I resent the ruling majority for not clearing it up, there are a thousand obstacles, they've made it legal, so they can't be removed and driven away. We need to clean it up with a big shovel, because it's a big crime and a robbery. I was already saying that the SBB, United Media, on cross-border television fraud and programme recasting, classic cross-border television, type FOX, HISTORI, etc., are taking and taking over 200m euros, illegal and illegal annually, and thus jeopardising the freedom of domestic media, because when they take part of the advertising market to domestic media, who pay everything to this country, when they kidnap false cross-border television, and the transboundary media when Cass, the Daract media, takes, they leave the domestic media with no money, leave without the possibility of doing business to be independent and exclusively depending on municipalities, and on various public competitions, and when they give money, it is normal for those media to pay attention to local politicians and not only as much as they deserve. And look at the wonders, I ask such a question, Direk Media, to see what Buke is going to say, says Buke, and that's why I support the law, like this, on a question, various questions, and this is the most interesting thing. Did the national service buy sports rights from those who don't have the right to broadcast them and buy them to resell them? He says no. If RTS was buying sports rights, second of my next question, from the SBB United Group, United Media and other legal persons associated with Gilas and Solak, for what money did it do? The real money was purchased from commercial incomes. The Serbian Radio Television, I think, has a common account, cannot share commercial revenues, can show them, but money is mixed in publicly and commercially from advertising. In doing so, they take away part of their advertising market. That's where they lose the money. But watch as the yellow Bujke defends him. The contract on the acquisition of the right to transfer by the parties agreed that the conditions, data and information relating to the realisation of contracts and transactions constitute a business secret. Public service, your right to know everything, except for the hidden businesses of School and Gilas. You think they've fallen from power. No, I don't. They lay low, they have their own people in this power. They have... organisations serving, which are the parapolitical parts of parties in power, they have camouflaged journalists who are in fact only camouflaged political opponents, they have everything, they hold the court in particular, they hold that third branch of government that should arbitration between these two, so they hold half the government in Serbia. In doing so, they hold the cable, the most powerful cable network. In their affairs, you can't ask or talk. This is from July 25, 2019. They were no longer in power, but they were in power. In terms of money, they're always in power. They work for the state, including that spy, but not ours. I proved they worked for Bulgaria and who knows what everything, but not ours. I'm not defending power, I'm defending the state. It's an honor to serve the state, and they used the state. It's an honor to serve the state. Better for that service of punishment, for my loyalty and for my service of punishment, than for my betrayal, which I have described, my reward. And NUNS to reward me, I refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7149	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7150	Thank you. The President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets is intended to bring the system of protection of business secrets into line with relevant EU and European Parliament regulations of 8 June 2016 on the protection of business information against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. This law protects investment by economic operators in the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information that gives them priority over competition. The policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government is clearly declared to the EU. In that direction, we step hard forward as a sovereign state. We have provided investments from EU companies that account for almost 70% of the total inflow of SDI or foreign direct investment in Serbia over the past nine years with a sum of over 13 billion euros. The European Union is the largest donor in Serbia because it has provided a 3.6 billion-euro grant, in all areas, from public administration reform, social development, environment and agriculture. Financial assistance provided through an EU Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance IPA aimed at helping Serbia prepare for the takeover and effective implementation of future EU membership commitments. This was provided by Alexander Vukitch's policy. All this, as well as factories throughout Serbia, where thousands of jobs have been opened. The Republic of Serbia will build railways from Belgrade to Nis and from Nis to Northern Macedonia. This is fantastic news for Serbian citizens because it is a 700m-euro direct investment, which is directly poured into the pockets of Serbian citizens. This was provided personally by Aleksandar Vukic, all contrary to the former yellow tycoon company run by Dragan Gilas. Serbia can now boast that the average salary in Serbia in March was 555 euros, which was unimaginable at the time of the yellow tycoon, and he boasted on the 330-euro salary average, where we were at the bottom of the European scale. According to data from the Republic Institute for Statistics, the unemployment rate in 2020 was 9%, while in 2012, it was 25.5%. The very purpose of the protection proposed by this law of the disclosure of business information is to also legally sanction any act of unauthorized detection, multiplication of acquisition or use by third parties. But what about the former regime and Dragan Gilas and his halls protecting business secrets, protecting thieves in setting up a tender, secret accounts in exotic destinations, yes, they were well protected while lurkingly keeping their secret accounts filled with money from Serbian citizens and enjoying the benefits of their illegally acquired money, and hiding from the public through their tycoon media the suffering of the people who led to the sun. Unaware of the fact that justice may be slow as a turtle, but that's why it tears like a lion and it won't forever be secretly tucked into the comfort of its fairies and chambers of money protected as polar bears, in a luxury of 619m euros in income, during its stay in the power of Gilas knows what it is, just as it knows 57 secret accounts, which is why they strike in panic as patrons of the Veljko Belivuk clan. The loudest of these days, so-called. Professor Vuletic, in a morbid way, nibbles at the victims, and we know that it was the most odious act of a brutal clan of murderers and drug dealers, scoffing at victims and fighting crime, refusing a polygraph not to admit who it is and what it is, convinced that Satanizing Danil Vukic will break and Alexander Vukic, drawing on someone else's forehead a target, thinking it disguises all the crimes, and only conceals the fear of the face of justice that will catch up with him. Is that what Dragan Gilas noticed? Did he understand what the people were telling him? The people said -- no, the thief, the bandits who robbed and devastated Serbia wherever they could, boasting of their unhappiness. The people of Serbia see this, as well as factories, jobs, investments, roads, GDP growth, to 7% in the age of the largest pandemic, museums, monuments and let the people of Serbia not worry, because the path to which Serbia is led by Aleksandar Vukic is to be the best and for the first time winner in many segments of social life. Serbia has changed, it will never go back. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Anna Beloic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7152	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, has already been told a lot about the legislative solution that is on the agenda today in front of the esteemed MPs, and therefore I will begin my presentation a little differently, and you, Mr. Chairman, will not mind that. Given that we are currently in the largest, both economic and health crisis, which has hit the whole world in the last few decades, I must point out that the Republic of Serbia has been a country that has been successfully fighting the crown of the virus since the beginning of this pandemic. We started the vaccination process in time, and that process itself was not a matter of politics for us, but was the only thing saving people's lives. For this reason, the profession predicts that by the end of June 2021 we will declare victory over the coronary virus, of course, if we continue at the same pace of the vaccination process and if we continue to comply with the prescribed measures. Just a few days ago, she started a campaign to vaccinate young people from 16 to 30 years of age, conducted by Mrs. Ana Brnabić and I will take the opportunity from this place to appeal to all young people, as someone who has already fulfilled their civic duty, to be vaccinated, to fulfil their moral obligation, moral responsibility, and thus to protect themselves and all the people around them that they love. It depends on all of us together when we can return to normal life flows and, of course, depends on how we continue to fight this invisible enemy, the enemy who has taken many young lives, you will agree with me, the lives of our loved ones, parents, grandparents and grandfathers. So, once again, appeal to all young people to be vaccinated and thus protect themselves and others. To get back to the agenda. Today we are talking about a proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, and it is a law that, from my point of view, has a very big role and importance when we talk about a modern and modern economy like Serbia, and it was certainly meant by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it worked on such a legal solution and when it referred it to the assembly procedure. It is therefore totally undeniable that the SNS parliamentary group will accept such a defined legislative solution in the voting day. The protection of business secrets is necessary in modern business, you will agree with me, for the reason that the information that today has an extremely high value. You have an example of companies trading certain information, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, and which today represent the most valuable companies in the whole market. As such, they took over primate companies from the oil industry, which had had this flattering title years ago. For this reason, there was a need to protect business secrets from illegal use, use, supply and disclosure. Business secret includes different types of information, starting with the information relating to the production process itself, then certain financial plans, client lists, supplier lists, etc. This law is strictly prescribed when certain information can be legally used and where it is illegal. With these and similar legal solutions, we continue to fight for a modern economy, continue to fight for economic progress, speed up economic growth and development and, of course, for the prosperity and development of our entire society. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in its spring forecast, the European Commission predicted that the economic growth rate of the Republic of Serbia would be 5.3%, which is by 0.5 percentage points more than when we talk about their autumn forecast. So it is absolutely inevitable from this point of view that the Republic of Serbia and 2021 will end up as one of the most successful economies in all of Europe. This certainly contributed to adequate and timely monetary and fiscal policy measures, as well as, of course, three support packages, both for citizens and businesses, but also for one stable business environment that we had throughout the crisis period. I will take the opportunity to remind the citizens of Serbia that despite the pandemic of the coronal virus, the SNS continues to lead a stable policy of uniform regional and uniform rural development. This refers not only to the construction of roads, railways, a traffic station, which I have talked about several times in this high house, but also to the construction of new factories and new companies throughout Serbia. I remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that President Aleksandar Vukic also visited Priboj and Prijepolje a few days ago and that he opened two new companies in Priboj, the German company AFT, as well as the hotel Terme 36.6. This showed that despite the dirty campaign against him, against his family, it only mattered to him one thing, which is to fight for a modern, more beautiful and stable Serbia. No matter what political option we belong to, we always have to look into politics for reality. I will take the opportunity to ask all of my esteemed fellow MPs, all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, perhaps much better than we young people remember that regime of the former government -- is the reality that during the former regime, there are hundreds of factories and that half a million people are out of work? Is the reality that during the reign of Alexander Vukic, who they are so unwittingly fighting, that during his reign, hundreds of factories were opened, over half a million people were employed, and thousands of children were saved from hunger, poverty, misery and streets? Is it true, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the former regime against Alexander Vukic is fighting thanks to the enormous wealth that they acquired for years while they were in power? Is it also true that because of the lack of a political programme, they are fighting by criminalising his family in the most disgusting way possible, drawing a target on him and his family and even on underage children? I am telling them from this place that in Serbia we will not allow any child to be the victim of a political struggle anymore, because for us children and families are sacred and we will not bring evil back to them, but we will fight back a new fight for our children, for our economy and for our Serbia. As Nikola Tesla said - a man was born to work, to suffer and to fight. Whoever doesn't, must fail, and therefore we fight from day to day to day to leave our children something to remember us by. This whole world is like a book where we all represent one page and we all represent a whole picture of life together. Both life and people are fleeting. It is the works that remain behind us and that are eternal. That's why we're fighting to leave our children the pieces we'll be remembered for. Life passes, deeds are eternal. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7153	Thank you. The word is Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7154	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today is on the agenda of the Business Secret Act, which is being passed, or changed or adopted a new version after 10 years. In fact, the law was passed in 2011, but due to the need to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation and the need to correct what has not been formulated and processed in the best possible way, a new law has been passed. We have a strategy to develop and preserve intellectual property since 2018-2022, which provides for the adoption of a new Business Secret Act, which is exactly what we are doing. Also, in 2017 Chapter 7 - intellectual property was opened, in negotiations with the EU and the adoption of this law enables us to close or bring this chapter closer to closure in the best possible way. Namely, in the law that we passed in 2011, or which was passed at the time, it is said that the business secret is something that has commercial value, but that, first of all, applied, was so formulated, that it applied to industrial and commercial organisations. In the way the business secret was defined, it did not protect intellectual property, it did not protect the work of scientific and research laboratories and institutes, which was the lack of that law. It was theoretically possible for an institute to take on certain knowledge from other institutes and patent them as its own. Unless there is a registered commercial activity, it was not considered a breach of business secrets, and of course, by registering patents and later giving someone the right to produce and commercialise, of course there is also a commercial effect. This law is better, it defines it much more correct and simply makes it impossible for such situations. So in order for something to be a business secret, it must have commercial value. It's knowledge, experience, business information, technical information. Indeed, when looked at, the business secret is very diverse, i.e. it can be a set of diverse information, starting with technical solutions, drawings, projects, certain formulas, chemical formulas, drug formulas, up to certain market research, customer lists, lists of agency services, etc. In addition to this commercial value, a business secret in order to be legally protected, it must be protected from its holder by reasonable measures. Under these reasonable measures, it is understood that the holder of the classified information or information, first of all, declared to be a business secret, that there is a rule on the handling of business secrets, that it knows exactly which individuals, or individuals, in which situation, when, how they can access these data, that there is possibly a record of those who have accessed these data with access time, that the data, i.e., is protected, both physically and electronically, are located in a separate room or key, etc. and that they are marked with the designation business secret. So anyone who gets in touch, in a random contact with that, say, information, knows that it's something he shouldn't be saying, or that he shouldn't hand over to someone who's not authorized. Therefore, the commercial value combined with reasonable measures makes something a business secret. We have a situation where economic operators and institutes who want to protect themselves, they mostly adopt a rule of business secret, which implies and predicts everything that I've talked about, how it's handled, how it's access to business secrets, how it's protected. And we have more and more cases of business operators and employees signing confidentiality agreements, which means that even after leaving the company, there's no right for employees to have business information that he's come to at the workplace to hand over to a new employer. Unfortunately, let the world statistics say that 85% of business secrets are revealed by either someone who works in a company or someone who worked in a new employer handing over information, or a business secret. The business secret is also protected in court proceedings, it is proven to be a violation of business secrets, and that is to say the measures that can also apply to the confiscation of products that have been made by abuse, i.e. by revealing and using business secrets, until the destruction of these products, meaning, the withdrawal from the market, destruction or, as the old law did not provide, that these products are handed over to the holder of business secrets as some kind of future compensation or that they surrender for charity purposes. We have a business secret holder, if he finds or suspects that his business secret has been injured, has the right to request by judicial means that temporary measures be taken, and these temporary measures mean, too, the withdrawal of goods from the market, i.e. the disabling of the production of certain goods containing a business secret. What's interesting is that the bill allows one suspected of injuring a business secret to invest a certain deposit that the court assesses is sufficient and to continue production if it turns out in the end that he did not injure the business secret. If he's hurt, then those funds go to the business secret. Also, the holder of a business secret who believes his secret has been injured, the court may ask him to deposit if he asks for an end to the production of one suspected of injuring his business secret. In any event, after 30 days, or 30 days from the court’s provisional measures, a claim must be filed, or otherwise, any failure. Also, within 30 days of requests to provide evidence and to provide evidence, a claim must be filed. It is interesting that the law suggests that the court, when making a decision, appreciates the value, which is quite logically, the value of the injured business secret, means its commercial value and that the court decision should be proportionate, i.e. proportionate to the damage it has caused. The damages itself implies the lost profit of the business secret holder, i.e. the lost benefit, the unrealized benefit, the benefit of the one who has injured the business secret and the immaterial damage. If it is not possible to determine exactly how much it represents, it is considered that the court should make a decision on compensation for damages which is not greater than, for example, legally purchased licences from business secretaries for the production of certain goods. This law, which is in line with the 2016 EU Directive, also has a number of exceptions to keeping business secrets, and that may be something that causes the biggest controversy or dilemma in certain people or a certain number of people, but I think these exceptions are fully justified. In the first place, it is the right that the alarmer in certain situations, once again following some other laws in the process when it proves that the economic operator has been working against the law and that he has not adhered to the law or that it is an act of some kind, has the right to speak in a certain way about business secrets. It is also given the right to journalists, especially researchers to report objectively and correctly to the public, and they can also enter into matter that implies business secrecy, of course, by making sure that it does not harm its essence. This law also gives union representatives the right to be familiar with the business secret in the process of representing someone employed in front of management bodies or in court, but not to hand it over to others and not to use it in a way that is not correct or contrary to keeping a business secret. Also, lawyers are involved in this group of people who have the right to become familiar, with the obligation to keep accounts and keep business secrets and the court regulates the court's case in a way that keeps the business secret. A number of economic operators did not dare at all to go to court for breach of business secrets because the court itself and the court proceedings were not such as to ensure that business secrets were kept. It is now prescribed that the court can fully exclude the public at certain hearings, limit the number of people on hearings by each party in the procedure, carry out special record-keeping, the original court minutes, that the sentence of judgment should be such that those parts relating to the business secret are blacked out and that they act in all ways that will preserve the business secret regardless of the court's case being conducted in breach of business secrets. What is new under the 2016 directive is the right of a party who has been injured by a business secret to demand that a court ruling be made public on the violation of business secrets. This right is intended to deter some others from breaching business secrets. So, this right to public disclosure in means of information has, I say, a preventive role and, of course, to take care again that the essence of business secrets is not published, but only the sentence of the judgment and the part relating to the essence of the verdict without details concerning the very secrets or personalities involved in the process, and they are protected by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Of course, independent research and an independent scientific discovery do not constitute a breach of business secrets, and this formulation actually stimulates competition in the fields of scientific and research work, creation, etc. In many cases reverse engineering, when legally obtained product is separated into components and testing attempts to determine how it is done, which process, which, by process, of which substances, also in a large number of cases, unless said, does not constitute a breach of business secrets. Foreigners are protected by us, or by foreign companies, in the way that we are protected, that is, by an interstate contract or by the principle of mutuality, but on the side of whoever is calling, or who is seeking the protection of business secrets to prove the principle of reciprocity. Here we have two types of punishment, i.e. legal persons and responsible persons in a legal person, if they are proven to have committed an injury, they are punished for economic crime, entrepreneurs and natural persons are criminally punished. What might be important here is that I say, and I may have already said, which is that these temporary measures and the security of evidence fall if within 30 days the suit is not filed by the appropriate court. It is important to conclude that by this regulation, our legislation in this area fully complies with the 2016 EU Directive, which will in some ways be an incentive... We have a large number of factories here that have been built in the last 7-8 years. Many of these factories have their own development and will have scientific and research centres. It is now stimulating and encouraging all of them to do this job, because they will have legal protection that is completely adequate to protect them in their countries. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7155	Thank you. The word is Ana Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7156	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected minister with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets and it is necessary in modern business, as information is now of great value. The essence of the adoption of this law is to improve the protection of business secrets and this law will protect knowledge and experience that provides an advantage over competition. This law gives security and stability, both to domestic and foreign investors for all values or specialities that can be treated as a business secret. The 2011 law wasn't exactly accurate. To be honest, it didn't make much sense, because in that period, the industry in Serbia was completely destroyed, the workers were out of work and we witnessed numerous robbery privatisations during that period. In such a country, a growing Serbian economy, it was completely pointless to deal with the protection of business secrets. Today, however, Serbia is the leader in attracting foreign direct investment. The unemployment rate is single-digit. The fact is that President Aleksandar Vukic, despite the pandemic, opens new factories daily, new jobs, and brings investors. For all these reasons, we need one of these laws, and the state has recognized the need to regulate and resolve this area. It is indeed a clear difference how former representatives of the government treated the economy and the citizens, and what the situation is today. I will take as an example of Purpose from Triestenik, a factory that was on the verge of destruction, cramped in debt, workers worked under inadequate conditions, did not have regular incomes and contributions. The former president of the municipality of Trstenik, Miroslav Aleksic, was least interested in citizens, their jobs and the future of the municipality of Trstenik, but also in the district. And now this same Miroslav Aleksic, along with Vuk Jeremic, tours tourism Serbia, offering false promises, as if the citizens had forgotten all these layoffs and their thefts. We have testified that with the support of President Aleksandar Vukic, but also former Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, who returned the factory to the defence industry, as well as Mrs Atanaskovic, who courageously took over all the problems, this factory soon began to make a profit. Now, with a responsible attitude towards the economy, workers, profits, we can say that this factory is the starter of the Rasin County, but also of Serbia. It's not just this factory that's an example of reviving the economy. We started and changed Serbia, we created conditions for future investment and daily support for entrepreneurs in business and, here, in the municipality from which I come, in the municipality of Cicicevic, in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Regional Chamber of Commerce Kruševac, we will open a tent for entrepreneurs as support and incentives for entrepreneurship, as well as for young people to create their own business. In addition to encouraging the development of entrepreneurship, it is also important that the Ministry of Economy recognized the importance of investment in travel infrastructure, as well as the benefits that will lead to the way of Braljina-Tubarevo, both the Municipality of Ćićevac and the development of the tourist potential of Mojsinska Sveta Gora. In addition to the economy that is going in the right direction, new roads, railways, direct foreign investment, it is also essential to improve each of the areas mentioned in the legal frameworks. For that reason, in voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7157	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7158	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning, I would like to commend the creation of this Law on the Protection of Business Secrets in the context of its normative arrangement because I am really making one mini partnership with all the materials that we have received so far legally, to say, acts, it seems to me that for a long time we have not seen such a legal solution which is in a very simple and plastic way first explained, and previously and normised, so it seems to me that anyone who takes this legal text tomorrow, if it has connections and business activities on any area, does not have to be any expert in the field of law, in the cloud, neither do I know, different research or competition, to say that the struggle on the market will finally understand what business secret is in which way it is being protected, and in which way one can come into the position to violate the provisions of this law. In any case, this law in this context will lead to an even greater degree of legal certainty and will reduce the amount of damage that we have so far, as we have been able to read in the explanation, we have not been able to through the different court practice and records and bases that are formed in courts to know what this is, and the assumption is that it is a huge damage that economic operators, regardless of whether it is state or private entities, individuals, natural persons in the context of the creation of intellectual property, so also in that sense we will have another complex continent which, in the context of the story of a better economic environment, will give everyone a better angle and greater legal certainty. In this context, I have to say that in Article 2 in terms of the meaning of the expression that they speak, first of all, about what is a business secret and what is the commercial value of a secret and how is it even treated what is a business secret and how important it is to see something and the period in which we are today and that many jobs, many innovations in different areas are progressing much faster than that normative we had in the previous period could imagine. Now, if only one plastic case could talk about different software solutions that are and how important for improving both business and improvement of the environment regarding the rights that citizens have, we could especially see it during the pandemic period in which we are unfortunately still in place, but here, thank God we all somehow have this already premature subjective feeling that the pandemic is slowly edging and that both business activities and all other activities are gradually returning to normal. So in this context and this regulation of a new legal solution on the protection of business secrets is something that will and will do well, and in terms of abuse again, so do you know how important it is today, to say, to have one not only business idea, but also a certain software idea which in some context is a particular economic entity, a legal person, and to say to some state-owned company that has developed a certain software solution means protecting some business secret in terms of competition struggles on the market in all other things? I would only cite the example of a different and competitive operator who is too intense in every sense of the word and that, in any case, in the earlier period of time, we have different abuses that have been inflicted in any case by major economic operators still owned by the Serbian state. I'll talk about it later. In the context of Article 3, which is extremely important for me for the first time, we have a very precise definition of what is called legal procurement and the use and disclosure of business secrets, but also very clearly to say that it distinguishes what this means by independent discovery and creation and, in particular, what in this context in writing this article has been taken care of when someone comes in a different way to a business secret and even those who investigate, trying to maybe find some angle that is not well-intentioned when it comes to these sources, whether it is about researchers, whether it is about alarmers, that in any case they are not entering this category, that someone tonight or tomorrow in these media who allegedly cares about the public interest has come to think that someone adopts this legal solution because of it. It is these individuals, these organizations, who are excluded from this context of illegal acquisition of business secrets. They were placed in the category of legal acquisition of business secrets. Also, if we're talking about Article 4 of the illegal acquisition and disclosure of the business secret of a corner I've noticed by reading this law that should still be read by me, given that we haven't adopted these legal solutions, think about it and these are criminal provisions. By reading the criminal provisions and by putting someone in a position to, say, reveal a certain business secret, and I may have cited only one example, if we read what a criminal provision is for a physical person that it is the maximum of 150 thousand dinars, then the question arises – will those who consciously wish to abuse their positions deliberately do something like that because the penalty is minimal? Some tycoons who are well known to us for one lunch or for two or three bottles of wine spend so much money agreeing on a combination and trying to get into their network of support that they unfortunately have today in certain public enterprises as posted checkpoints for years finance certain individuals, people who are about to report to them things that are innovations and business secrets so that their companies in this case do better progress. I primarily think of the Gilas Solak group that has been deployed all over Serbia and extremely well on the market from which the enormously well-lived emissaries, their checkpoints, all those who have funded for years, and who, reading this law tomorrow in a position may be stimulated to continue with such work, especially because reading this material again, we can see that in terms of court practice when I read about it, we haven't had a certain procession, that it's still a job that is grateful. Therefore, to damage state property, to work for the opposite interest, this business secret can essentially be a crucial segment in order to be more successful tomorrow, to have a certain right of the championship or to be better positioned on the market. In this context, I reaffirm it once again, and I think it is extremely important that we define this normification as high as possible, and criminal provisions for natural persons and not just equalize legal persons. Why would someone who is a natural person and in this case has a certain public authority because he works in a public enterprise have less punishment than a legal person, regardless of how in this case the definition of a legal person cannot be put in the category of a natural person, but it is understood that for an individual who has such a possibility we must determine more precise and more penalties? In that sense, given that I referred to only one example, I would not go further to the width and put some dipressions on this subject, I would give another example of making a parallel in all of this. We know how this team Gilas Solak worked and how it spread across Serbia. Every day in different media we can read, so here we can read in one of the daily newspapers today, not to advertise it, how Dragan Gilas lied and how he worked with state firms, first of all, with Telecom Serbia, and how certain documents about all of this are coming out, and that's exactly why I was talking about this earlier. There are still certain individuals sitting in certain places where they can report certain business secrets, and as you see certain individuals who today, like Dragan Gilas, want to qualify again to be candidates tomorrow for not knowing any mayors or ministers or presidents, don't God think they have credibility that they can do it again. They formally have all the preconditions to run in the elections, by their will they did not want to go out, but in any case they do not have credibility, they have no moral right, and I hope that we will succeed in norming and establishing a court practice that by hiding business secrets, which they then had corrupting state budgets, public enterprises budgets and everyone else. Well, there's that difference between us and them. Their business secret was how to put their combinations in their pockets and create such a situation when they come down from power that they have jobs, very good and lucrative, that they can continue to do so automatically and in opposition, then relying on some moral right and how they know they manage public resources. They can manage public resources if we talk about how to make a good combination, hide it and point it into private pockets. So, we have the pandemic that kind of position what SNS was doing and, primarily, Alexander Vukitch. Here, I will give only one example, in 2012, when there was a campaign for general elections and local Belgrade elections. President Aleksandar Vukic's idea was the project that was most attacked in Serbia and Belgrade that was the project "Belgrade on Water" and the project that we can see today in this magnificent edition had different stages of development. He had phases that had a tendency of business secrets because he had commercial and any other strategic importance. Here in the National Assembly, different laws were required in the context of the "lex specialise" to be adopted in order for such an investment to have to go. The result of that story is public and private. Belgrade, as an even more pronounced metropolis, a high price of real estate, a new face of Belgrade when you cross bridges and when you see "Belgrade on water" and all that we can proudly say today. Therefore, behind us, behind President Vukic, there was a vision, and today, given that what we have in this particular case is the project "Belgrade on Water" is credibility. The credibility achieved not only in spoken words, let's say in the 2012 campaign, but in the end of an investment that is only now one beginning of all that we will be able to see in Belgrade. Therefore, we qualified to move forward, qualified to continue this work, and the team around Dragan Gilas, around Šolak and all those who follow them qualified not only to go long-term incarceration, they qualified primarily for this kind of story to be punished by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in all elections that were on the next period of time. In that direction, in the voting day, in any case as a People's MP, and also as a man who believes in everything he said earlier, I will support these legal solutions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7159	I thank Mr. Schukal. The word is Mirela Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7160	The Honorable chairman, respected MPs, respected ministry with co-workers, respected citizens of Serbia, is a great success in state policy that Serbia has provided vaccines among the first countries. In addition to the health of the population, vaccinations are crucial to the recovery of the economy. It is important for us to put the epidemic under control and thus ensure normal operating conditions. We went one step further and we provided vaccines for businesses in the region, aware that regional co-operation is of great importance for growth and economic development. In these difficult times when the whole world is struggling with a crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, we've shown willingness to build, produce, invest in infrastructure, realize started projects, help the economy and citizens, increase wages and pensions. Serbia is developing today in all fields. We also owe great gratitude to our health workers because their efforts and struggles in these difficult times are of immense importance. The state is investing in building new hospitals, increasing salaries and new jobs for healthcare professionals. Also, our economy records the best results in Europe. Serbia has the slightest drop in GDP. All this stuff I mentioned didn't happen overnight. This is the work of President Aleksandr Vukic, the wise and courageous decisions of the reform implemented, investment in infrastructure, and the result is new jobs, and in these difficult times investors continue to invest in our country. It's the best indicator of how much someone believes in the future of our country. Through a package of support measures for businesses and citizens, our country has shown its readiness to help both businesses and citizens and to continue to develop. There's a very important law on today's agenda, business secret law. This law concerns all economic operators, journalists, marketing agencies, and compliance with all relevant EU regulations. Through this law, it will clearly define which information is enjoyed by the protection of business secrets. Business secret is information that allows a competitive market advantage that creates a commercial value. Through business secrets, different types of information are protected, from production processes to financial plans, intellectual property rights, as well as findings during the patent application phase. The purpose of protecting business secrets is to legally sanction any act of unauthorized disclosure, multiplication, acquisition and use of information by a third party. The method of sanctioning a breach of business secrets by an economic operator will be sanctioned as a commercial offence, and by a natural person, i.e. by an entrepreneur, will be considered a violation. The seriousness of the business world is seen precisely in keeping business secrets. The provisions of this law will clearly define measures to keep business secrets that employers will apply through contracts with their workers in practice. Our country has shown that it can and wants to preserve what is most important, in addition to health, which is jobs and investment in infrastructure. Not only to build and invest in Belgrade, it is also an indicator of the economy of the Forest Management District, which records Serbia's largest foreign trade surplus of more than 339m euros for the first seven months of 2020. The main export products are cars, furniture, parts of rail vehicles. Today, the forest is being built and developed thanks to President Alexander Vukic. It invests in infrastructure, wastewater treatment plants, energy efficiency, new jobs. The forest today is becoming a modern district and believe me, there is no place in our Shumadia where it is not being built today. Last week, in the municipality of Lapovo from which I come, a cornerstone was laid for the construction of a logistics distribution centre called Lidl, which will employ 250 workers in the coming period and the value of the investment is 70m euros. Also, I want to mention capital investments that will be realised in 2021 with the support of our country in the town of Kragujevac. One of the most important investments is certainly the replacement of boilers in energy, i.e. from coal to gas. Also, a palace of justice was built, invested in wastewater treatment plants, reconstruction of the clinical center, building apartments for security forces. Believe me, this is just one part of the investment that's being made in the town of Kragujevac. I can't help but remind you that at the time of the former regime's rule, the valley was a famine. Thanks to our President Alexander Vucic, the Shumadi is becoming a modern region today. To those who today draw targets at the head of President Alexander Vukic and his son Daniel, we, from the Forest, recommend that we believe in our country and believe in our president. President Alexander Vukic's results are visible at every turn and our citizens see it. Serbia today is strong and strong to resist all hardships and to bear the title both for the number of vaccinated citizens and for the development of the economy and for the development of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7161	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7162	The President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, a very significant law, a law on business secrecy, and this law, which was written new, did not change the existing law, just to give answers to all the questions that this economic environment and this economic environment is currently setting up both the state and the ministry and all those dealing with the economy. Why this law, why at this point? Well, just the new investors, new jobs, new contracts and the situation where the crown as a global problem and the biggest problem since World War II that has served everyone in the world as some kind of excuse for the problems that both state and economy are in, I think we are one of the few, but we are not the only ones who gave the right answer to the crisis and that answer has turned Alexander Vukic into a new opportunity and a realisation of all those projects that were impossible missions and acted like a fairy tale, but at the time of Alexander Vukic they are a reality. These projects and contracts that are already being implemented and which are in the plan to be realized are looking to protect the business secret. The question is how and where is the measure between a business secret and where is the line between a business secret and a secret that can be presented and, if we want to be fair and fair, we are in the Assembly, we are here because we were elected by citizens of Serbia, a business secret that connects to Dragan Gilas, and that's no longer a business secret, that's stealing. And when someone finds out that the former Democratic Party's first man, someone who claims to lead Serbia doesn't know where or when, wants to take her to the past, which is so clear and who is so unattractive to him who talks, let alone the citizens of Serbia, in that past Gilas wants to bring citizens, where these business secrets are no longer business secrets, they show that it's about ordinary theft, misuse of budgets, both state and Belgrade, and abuse of all possible institutions in the state of Serbia. When someone abuses the state, that someone should answer. If there was not enough evidence for the court, there was enough evidence for the citizens, the citizens ruled briefly, clearly, with one big "no" and that big "no" is a permanent verdict, possibly a life sentence for Dragan Gilas and that thief's crew. We had yesterday in this high house meeting of the Friendship Group with Hungary, His Excellency Ambassador has just confirmed that never in the history of Hungary and Serbia's relations have these relations been on a higher level than they are now. At a friendly group meeting with Cyprus, the ambassador also said that never better relations between Cyprus and Serbia. Any ambassador, not to mention, all those who were in this Assembly, and also those who were not, agree that relations between the state of Serbia and any other country in Europe and the world have never been better, and have never been better, and only thanks to Alexander Vukic. While just mentioning Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, former mayor of unhappy Zelenovic, Bosko Obradovic, that I don't skip someone, the list of happiness is not so long, they go to foreign embassies and through their media try to place lies and lies, someone else visits Serbia's state, visits Serbia's citizens and asks precisely what the state of Serbia can do to them and how to help them. He was president in Prepolje, he was in Ub, he was in Šapec, he was in Nis, he was in Subotica and last week he was in Dobric, he was also in Radovašnica, but the only question he had for the citizens who welcomed him in all these places is – respected citizens, how can we help you, what is it you need? Of course, no one has a magic wand and no one can do anything in 20 days or two months or two years. Everything has its own order and everything has its priority. But the answer to all the questions is that the president comes to every citizen and asks him – people, what you need, I'm here as president to ask you and help you with that. Project 2021-2025 will now provide answers to all these questions and realize all that is promised. What I am proud of, and that is simply so, is that I am a member of a party whose president, and at the same time the president of Serbia said a few days ago that he is willing to sacrifice himself and his head -- I am giving my head, I am not giving Serbia. That's what Alexander Vukitch said, and that's certainly how it is. I'm proud to stand behind a man like that. What others couldn't, and that's exactly what they were doing, and they were doing everything that wasn't good and that's not in the interest of Serbian citizens. What is very important for today's session is that absolute support not only for this law, but for all those laws that continue to provide answers to questions on how to move forward, in which justice goes this Serbia. Of course this law is in line with the laws of the European Union, because we are a people, we are a country that is on the European path. It's just like that, and we're not gonna give up that trip. But we will not give up our journey to protect the state of Serbia, it is the highest interest of both this law and any other law. It's no secret that they were buying votes, here, right from my town where I came from, the former mayor was buying votes, and it's not a business secret. When he was caught in 2016 buying votes, when an activist who bought votes and bought cash, for former Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, in 2020 could not buy votes and could not win more than 18,000, and remind me, SNS received 30,200 votes in Šapac, which is 12,000 more than Nebojja Zelenovic, Dusan Petrovic and the entire team. The business secret is how and at which price it purchases material to build a bridge across the Sava River, but it is not a business secret that the bridge across the Sava River, a highway from Ruma to Sapac, a new traffic station from Sapac to Loznica, will cost 480m euros. It is not a business secret that will work the highway from Novi Sad to Šapac, i.e. from Novi Sad to Ruma, then from Ruma to Šapac, and that this is exactly the road with tunnels through Fruska Mountain that will cost from Ruma to Novi Sad about 600m euros. Everything that needs to be a business secret and it needs to be a business secret will provide this law. But if people in “Cola-Cola” have the right to protect their recipe and the way they produce “Cola-Cola”, even some of ours who make burgers in the STR “Pera Zdra”, let them protect the way he made that burger and how he bakes the barbecue. But what's true, and that's what I'm going to end up with, is that at this point Serbia is giving answers to all the necessary questions. At this point, Serbia is the most prospective country of this part of Europe, if not the whole of Europe. The future of Serbian citizens is clear, the future of all projects currently in realisation and those promised is certain and the future of our children is secure. In the day for voting support and this law and set of laws that we just voted in last session, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7163	Thank you. The word is "Milica Dacic."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7164	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Respected Serbian citizens, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister. Today we're talking about protecting business secrets. The purpose of adopting this law is to legally sanction any act of unauthorized disclosure, multiplication, acquisition or use by third parties of confidential information that is legally controlled by the holder of a business secret, which subsequently regulates situations where the acquisition of a business secret is considered legal, and in which cases it is illegal, this law also defines us. With Serbia on the European path, the bill is also the result of harmonising the system of security of business secrets with relevant EU regulations. The amendment of the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets and the adoption of a new legal act is necessary because without an amendment to the existing regime for the protection of business secrets there will be no adequate protection of investment by economic operators with the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information which provides an advantage over competition. Also, the lack of such a legal act could pose an obstacle to participation in joint research projects with the institutions of EU member states. Much has been done in the field of improving the business environment and creating a favourable business environment in Serbia in the last eight years, which is why we have investors today who do not give up investment in Serbia despite the pandemic. This is a way to contribute more to legal security and the rule of law in Serbia and show that Serbia is ready to change daily, in which this assembly of parliament also provides a clear, precise, system-based legal act like this. As Serbia has attracted numerous foreign investments since 2014, but has also created conditions to encourage domestic economic operators to invest more in new production processes and different studies, development and application of knowledge and experience, this law is so much more important. Investors who come to Serbia bring new knowledge, new technologies, different models and production processes, and another contribution from these investments to create a domestic new business industry encourages innovation, take over initiative and create healthy competition and promote external trade. When we talk about foreign trade, let's say the economy of the city of Cačka. The Chacan economy in 2020 grew 5.4% in exports, with a surplus in foreign trade doing precisely with Germany, as well as with the surrounding countries. I will remind you that in Serbia, about 400 German companies employ about 67,000 of our workers. Thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic in Cačak, just like many other parts of the country, the investment of Germany's Forverka has arrived, which already employs about 600 workers, and the plan is to make them 1,000. I will remind her, of course, that from two hours ago, we have a German company to do business in Serbia, which is in Valjevo, Bizerba. The clause that regulates the protection of business secrets has become almost an inescapable part of the work contract that is currently being concluded. What is another positive effect of this bill is that the proposed solutions will not affect the rights, obligations and responsibilities of workers. To remind ourselves, Serbia had 1,850,000 jobs in 2012. Today, thanks to the responsible SNS policy, the number is higher by about 400,000 new ones. And many of these jobs belong to actions where business operators take great care of their competitiveness and performance in the market through the protection of business secrets. Also, what is important and should know that respected citizens of Serbia are the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets, positively affecting the fair distribution of social wealth. But there are some secrets that don't. There are secret accounts by exotic destinations containing the money of Serbian citizens, just brought out of Serbia. We have recently been informed of them thanks to investigative journalism, learning that they belong to a specific former politician who, indeed, should become a political past because in many situations, he has received such a message from citizens of Serbia. But let's get back to modern times. Serbia had 3,015 billion euros in foreign investment in 2020, and Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia and Albania totalled 1.7 billion euros in the same period. Let us remember that the minimum wage eight years ago was 15,000 dinars, today it amounts to 32,000 dinars. The average salary in 2014 was 330 euros, today it is 560 euros, and hopefully we firmly believe, by the end of the year we will be able to reach a 600-euro figure, just as I believe Serbian citizens will be able to account for an average salary of 900 euros by 2025. We continue to fight for Serbia's future and take a firm step forward with a leader such as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7165	Thank you. There's a word, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7166	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic and her associates, distinguished fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, happiness is ours, it is the happiness of all Serbian citizens that President Aleksandar Vukic is at the head of our country, because we now have the time to keep both business secrets and state secrets and military secrets. We remember not so long ago from 2000 to 2012 when secrets were sold to both foreigners and tycoons and criminals. It was also in Belgrade until 2013, not to mention how SBB was spreading to the detriment of Telekom, by giving away certain business secrets, certain state secrets, both through the Gilas portals and through the media, how the contracts with the mark of confidentiality to the public were not in this way some of the companies controlled or owned by these companies were tycoons or foreigners or criminals or together criminals and tycoons, were not achieving their business interest at the expense of Serbian citizens. Not to mention how it was when military secrets were handed down by 2012, how the military industry of the Republic of Serbia was destroyed, what was the situation with the export of our military weapons and equipment, how tanks were destroyed, and how both foreign forces and foreign armies from Serbia provided information on all military secrets by 2012. Fortunately, that time has passed, but we must not forget that time, because such things happen when they occur, when state secrets, military secrets, business secrets, it leads to the destruction of the state. In the newer period, after 2012, we had, unfortunately, the situation that certain individuals were giving out state and business secrets and I hope that all those who participated in this, who worked both against the President of the Republic and against the state of Serbia, against the Constitution and the law, will answer in accordance with the law and that this will be the best message to all those who are not the world of Serbia, who are not the world of the Constitution, who just want to realize their business interest. And in what way all those who participated in both state and military and business secrets have achieved their million-dollar interest, all of this confirms what we can see in the public of the previous months. We all saw the secret accounts of Dragan Gilas in over 15 countries around the world, it seems to me 17, and how he made no profit of a million, no profit of tens of millions, but it was hundreds of millions of euros. The same situation with Dragan Solak and SBB is the same situation with Vuk Jeremic. Let us remember what Vuk Jeremic was doing with individual world tycoons and how he put millions of dollars or euros in his pockets, and he did all this to the harm not only of Serbia, but also of some other countries. The question is, what if she were the government, the yellow government, led by Dragan Gilas and Boris Tadic and their associates now in power, last and this year, at the time of the virus's corona? The question is how to get respirators. Most likely, Gilas and his comrades would set up a keg company, through which they would get respirators and put millions in their pockets, because their health wasn't sacred either. We know how they and their ministers destroyed the health care until 2012. The question is how would Serbia succeed and would it be able to obtain enough vaccines if the yellow power was in Serbia today? I do not believe that Dragan Gilas would allow us to obtain vaccines in this way, both from Russia and from China and from the United States and from the United Kingdom, and to start building our own coves of hospitals and vaccine factories. They wouldn't let that happen. Or they would allow themselves to achieve huge balances, by having serious profits and by both respirators and coviding hospitals through their burazer companies and through various foreign accounts, and when it comes to the purchase and manufacture of vaccines, and that's where they would put millions in their pockets. But fortunately for the health of all Serbian citizens, primarily the health of all Serbian citizens, we today have in power the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, belong to, and we have President Aleksandr Vukic at the head of our country. But that doesn't mean we need to relax. We should support all these good laws that are in line with the EU's assets, as is this law regarding the protection of business secrets, because today in Serbia we have those in power, and the government of Serbia and President Vukic, who are also protecting business secrets, but they protect and protect the health of all Serbian citizens. We're lucky that the first guard of Serbia is Alexander Vukic. As long as Alexander Wolf is our president, we don't have to worry. And I hope that for a long, long time, he will be the president of our country and that our country will continue to take this safe path to a better future. Because we don't have an alternative today. We can't risk it as a state. We must not risk the return to power of those who have kidnapped Serbian citizens, who only concern secrecy, it was the secrecy of their money in their secret accounts in the world. For them, it was a formulation of secrets, and they were hiding from Serbian citizens how much they got at the expense of Serbian citizens. Nothing was sacred to them, nor was the health of the Serbian citizens, and that they lied to the people. Today, we not only have a government that doesn't lie to the people, but that protects the people, which also takes care of the health of the citizens and about the fight against the crown of the virus, but also about the investment in health. So that I don't repeat myself with my fellow MPs from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", we have a serious investment today. Here, and today, our Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic in Valjevo, with our friends from the German company Bizerba, has announced the opening of 305, and only for the beginning of new jobs. A colleague, Birmancevic, spoke about investments in Šapec, a colleague of Dacic's, as far as Cačka is concerned. And so across Serbia, regardless of whether it's business, military industry, traffic, infrastructure, mining, energy, is being invested. He's investing in Serbia. Someone today takes care of the interests of Serbian citizens. Someone today also makes sure that secrets are kept and that Serbia is kept. And that's why we should continue on that path. All this fighting against the mafia, we are witnessing this fight, this fight against the mafia is being fought because it has appeared among the tycoons and their associates in the world of organised and economic crime by those who are troubled by strong Serbia, and are bothered by strong Serbia because it does not allow them to make millions, to kill citizens, to steal, to kidnap, to earn their sick ambitions and financial interests. That is why we must always give full support to the fight against the mafia and the Serbian government and President Aleksandr Vukic. Therefore, Serbian citizens, of course, that in the day of voting, I will vote for this bill, which concerns the protection of business secrets, because I believe that this law is also, and those laws we discussed yesterday and those we will discuss last week, lead to Serbia being stronger, even more stable, and I repeat, Serbia is even stronger and even more stable when it is guarded and led by our President Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7167	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. The word is Rajka Matovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7168	I thank the esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, as a law of exceptional importance. This law protects investment, and any unauthorized disclosure of business secrets is punishable. This is very important for the manufacturing sector because this is how producers are protected. The law on the protection of business secrets protects economic operators from unfair competition. A business secret must have commercial value in order to be characterized as such. The aim of this law is to protect investment, and to protect economic operators that are in production precisely from unfair competition. This law also protects small producers, but also our large companies and improves the business environment in Serbia, making us an attractive place for foreign direct investment. The law itself has defined which form represents a business secret, precise cases of telling and revealing business secrets. Cases of illegal disclosure of business secrets are specified, but the scope of the disclosure of business secrets is expanded, which is not punishable, when the business secret reveals the alarmer or journalist. This is very important to emphasize, precisely because of the so-called. investigative journalists, but more and more often the appearance of false alarmers. The point of this law is to define business secrets, and protect the economy, from any unauthorized betrayal, copying, multiplying business secrets as such. We are passing this law to improve the business environment in Serbia, which directly affects the standard of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, creating better and better-looking Serbia, as its citizens deserve. The former regime used business secrets as an ideal cover for all their robbery privatisations, under business secrets, made harmful contracts and privatised to dozens of public enterprises, told citizens it was ideal to say that the business secret obliges them not to disclose certain information from the contract, and the people were out of work, state without factories, and they were making no sense at that time. We don't know for sure if Dragan Gilas is the richest representative of the former regime, but that he's the mostgramable, we can confirm with certainty. It was not enough that during his time as mayor he increased his profits and capital by 619 million, which on the projects of the Bridge on Ada, but also the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, but also on many other projects that were paid a few times as much as their real price became unfeelingly rich. While the debt in the city's register was twice its capital, over 1.2 billion euros in that time, today it is only important that its private televisions serving exclusively as its public ballots receive a national frequency, probably to make it richer. Unlike the former tycoon regime, which devastated this country and used every opportunity to pour state money into its pockets, Aleksandra Vukic and SNS, the priority is a strong and stable Serbia standing clearly on the European path, but which also has friends in both the east and the west, which is the headquarters of the region. In the previous period, we showed excellent crisis marketing and our country did not stop during the difficult 2020, although our economy was locked up for 45 days, but rather, we managed to reduce unemployment, we increased the average profit in Serbia, direct foreign investment did not stop, but rather, we had much more than expected, we had a total of twice as much direct foreign investment as all countries and countries in the region combined. We ended up a very difficult year and exhausted, which paralysed the whole world with a pandemic of the coronary virus with the slightest drop in GDP. As I said, the trust of the citizens who have shown us, which shows us in every election, obliges us to do even more and even better to make Serbia a better place to live. Trust of the citizens is a great reward, but also a great punishment. Today they are representatives of the yellow tycoon regime at the political junkyard of citizens' will, and I personally believe that they belong there. In the voting day along with his colleagues to propose, a proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7169	Thank you, Mrs. Matovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7170	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, after more than 30 fellow Members of the People's Parliaments who discussed this topic, little to say about the proposed law on business secrecy, and I think that all the discussions that could be heard today from the plenary have clearly shown how important this law is. However, they have shown something else that anyone who could follow this transmission clearly indicates how much this term and at all that business secret was misused, exploited, and why people rightly worry when they hear someone hiding behind that statement -- I can't say, it's a business secret. What's good is the fact that this will protect the intellectual property of certain people, companies and businesses and what's going on in that plan. I think it's repeatedly highlighted. However, everyone who discussed it today, I listened carefully, almost every discussion, cited at least one example when it was abused or when he hid behind it with the desire to profit or conceal something of his own doing. Considering that many colleagues before me have discussed, somehow when you are at the end of the list of speakers, so you are changing the topics you want to talk about. But I certainly think that everything we've heard here today clearly shows that as much as we're talking about some subject being abused, that there's been some kind of malfeasance, it's still showing us how much we've had in the previous period of such examples, that there's always something left to say, some additional information, to explain something further. What is very important to the citizens who are watching this transmission, who from their point of view the laws that we are making is the fact that the business secret as a business secret serves the benefit of the company or individual to protect its interest, but unfortunately until 2012 or 2013, it was only used to conceal and hide some sort of manifestluk financial malversion, or to conceal some sort of illegal business. I think that counterpart Risticevic was the first to start the topic over the abuse of former mayor Dragan Gilas in Belgrade and he only cited everything that happened during the period while the opposition's representative was able to cheer, dress and act as sheriff in our capital. While he, along with his diaphragms from the Democratic Party, not only Belgrade, was destroying Serbia, he viewed Belgrade as his own private company, but not as that private company he enriched and whose finances he increased by more than 619m euros, but as a company that needs to pump money out and pump it into those private accounts. If this isn't some empty story or something we're talking about just because we hate Dragan Gilas, I just want to share with the citizens of Serbia something that will be very clear to them both to facts and evidence convincingly. Talking about business secrets with this example I met for the first time in 2011, as a committee in the City Assembly when we were in a position to ask any question that seemed suspicious to us or if we passed on any criticism to the citizens of Belgrade, the competent institutions at the time were always hiding representatives of the Democratic Party behind how they couldn't quite answer us, because it was a business secret. Now all I want with the citizens of Serbia is to go through three exact examples of where it was being violated. Also, here several colleagues mentioned examples of whether of King Alexander's boulevard or the underground containers, including those illegally multiple times, i.e. twice as many times, so somewhere in some situations twice as many examples of an exact violation of the law. What's this about? According to some decisions that Dragan Gilas made in my opinion, and according to the testimony of his other associates who indicated that this was not good and that it was not in accordance with the law, Dragan Gilas damaged 15,000 families by double-charging their kindergartens. As many times as he has spoken to the public, stating that this is a lie, that it is not true, the first basic court has made it clear that this is the truth and the best evidence for this is the verdicts that come to you from year to year and so far the city of Belgrade has paid 3.6 billion dinars to damaged families. This only shows you that because of the boast of a man who, in this way, is still not sure what he wanted to achieve, except that he increased his own conto, damaged the city of Belgrade, i.e. Citizens of Belgrade for more than 30m euros, which is about 15 kindergartens, depending on the squares. This is not what I'm talking about as Alexander Mirkovic, nor is this what someone as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party is talking about, this is a clear verdict given by the court. You can ask these families if the city pays them off. We're not done paying off yet. By the end of the year, we will have to allocate more money to pay off everything that Dragan Gilas left behind. When we asked why this was done, we did not get an answer, but in unmistakable answers, it was often said that it was still up to the competent services and that these documents were not public. Read: Business secret. If this example isn't enough, we'll move on to the next one. The famous Bulevar affair of King Alexander, anyone who lives in Belgrade, or who comes to Belgrade for business or tourism, must at least go through this Boulevard once. It is a project that also boasts today, although it tries in every way to undermine the situation that eight highways will be built in our country by the end of this year. He says that the reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevard is more successful than anything we do today. The reconstruction as a reconstruction of anything is absolutely desirable in our country and it is good to do so, but what is the problem? The problem is when you have people who in every reconstruction or any renovation or construction of any new project, as it was in their case and in their time, at the time of the Democratic Party regime, you see it as a source of extra income for yourself and your comrades. A strange situation occurred when a tender of two companies was called. So "Swittleski" and "Paul" made their offer and said, in plastic terms, that they could do the reconstruction by 1.1 billion dinars. They expected people to get a job because their offer was the most favourable. They met all the conditions, as they were then said. However, there is a major trade, and the job is obtained by "Balkan Construction", whose bid was 1.7 billion dinars. So over 600 million dinars were their bids higher. No one could believe that the commission would pass and that the procurement would still get this more expensive offer, i.e. "Balkan Construction". It was clear to all of us that it was a trend and that it was some sort of setup, but to one who was not clear by then everything became clear when, imagine now what happened, a notice about who got the job, who got that public procurement, was sent to these companies on December 31st 2009. People would think, well, the tendency is that on December 31st, the last day of the year, the greater the holiday mood, someone doesn't work that day or someone works part-time, but usually it's a more relaxed atmosphere, so why are you just waiting for that day? But it's not even the end of the paradox. The contract with "Balkan Construction", so the firm that offered the highest price, was signed eight days earlier. So on December 23rd, the contract was signed with them, it was all over, and the notice was sent only eight days later. When we asked why it was so done and if there was an abuse here, the answer was – it was a business secret. When you see how this termology has been misused during that period, it is right that citizens today wonder what this law is about, and what is it covering up? When you think it might be one in a series of examples, and here, we've already listed two, it doesn't stop everything, and it doesn't stop the rule of Dragan Gilas just because he's damaged 15,000 families because of kindergartens, it's not just because he's got extra profits for himself and his associates in the King Alexander affair, but you have an example of famous underground containers. The underground containers in Belgrade cost citizens of Belgrade more than sixm euros. So 1,800 underground containers cost sixm euros. The economic viability does not exist at all, but what is particularly suspicious and which we have talked about several times, and they have been hiding behind business secrets is the fact that the project itself, the delivery itself, the construction and installation of these underground containers, has passed without the decision of the Management Board of Urban Cleanness, which was in charge of this project. So the whole job is done without the board of directors giving consent, nor have they made any decision. Not to mention that no definitive project was done for the simple reason that they planned to make these underground containers only in downtown Belgrade, but since it was a small amount of money, then they expanded the supply, so the underground containers ended up in suburban settlements, where they absolutely failed to meet their purpose. When we asked the question on this subject, the answer was - it was a business secret and then you see how many times the citizens were denied for some answer of some essential importance to their finances, for their lives only because it was seen as an opportunity to hide and mask all their financial manifestations. For the very end, something that remains most impressive to all of us, something that we talked about long before this information came public -- the fact that Dragan Gilas is his position as director of some office, a official at Boris Tadic's, and then he also used the office of mayor of Belgrade to pump state resources into his private company. So imagine the situation, he was the mayor of Belgrade at the time, and his firm directly dealt not only with Serbia's Radio Television but also with Studio B, which is the city's television and advertising space has charged on both of these TVs even though he was a state official. When we finally asked the question and on that subject, we looked for an answer, you assume, and then on his side it was all a bit of a business secret. I just want to draw the public's attention once again to the fact that everything that we're talking about today and these concrete examples that I've presented today have allowed Dragan Gilas to become one of the richest people in this part of Europe and have allowed him to have more than 68m euros from Mauritius to Hong Kong through Switzerland, 17 different countries over 53 accounts. They also made it possible for him to have his own and printed media today, to have his own televisions through which he targets and satanizes Alexander Vukic and his family, and most of the time, his son Danilo Vukic is on the run in that dirty campaign. I'd like to tell them one more thing from this place. No matter how hard we try to create a situation where Alexander Vukic will slow down or kneel before them and before their lies, he will not succeed. Family is sacred, and we as responsible people, I am confident, in this assembly we will pass laws that are, above all, of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. Dear Minister, since you are here today in front of us, I wish you a lot of success, and I want you as someone who represents our government, along with the prime minister, to follow the path that is being followed by President Aleksandar Vukic, and to continue to create a better and better place for all our children and generations to come from Serbia together. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7171	Thank you. The word is Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7172	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, which was submitted by the Government, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, proposed to the MPs to accept the bill. This law regulates the legal protection of business secrets against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. The proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets carries out the harmonisation of the system of protection of business secrets with relevant EU rules. The protection of business secrets protects the investment of operators in the acquisition, development and application of knowledge and experience and other information that gives them priority over competition. Investment in the creation and application of intellectual capital protects the right to intellectual property by patent, design or copyright, as well as the protection of access to knowledge that is valuable to the economic operator and is not generally known. Is such valuable knowledge and experience, as well as business information that is undiscovered and intended to remain confidential, make business secrets. Business secret protects different types of information such as production process, business plans, financial plans, advertising strategies, market survey results, list of suppliers and customers, projects etc. The purpose of protecting business secrets is to legally sanction any act of unauthorised disclosure, multiplication, acquisition or use by third parties, confidential information legally controlled by the holder of a business secret, physical or legal person. The basic preconditions for providing such a type of protection of some confidential information are that this information is a secret, because it is not in general or in terms of the precise structure and set of its components of general knowledge or easily accessible to the persons in the circles normally engaged in that type of information, that it has commercial value because it is a secret and that it is subject to reasonable measures that a person who controls information legally in order to keep it in secret. The draft law gives the definition of business secrets, i.e. specify which information and under which conditions they enjoy protection as a business secret. It is also arranged under which conditions the acquisition, use and disclosure of information representing a business secret is considered legal and under which conditions it is considered illegal. The provisions contained in the proposed law constitute a legal basis for civil and legal protection in the event of a breach of business secrets. It is also proposed that the breach of business secrets be sanctioned as a commercial offence if it is committed by a company or a responsible person in that company, and as an offence if committed by a natural person or entrepreneurs. In order for one information to be considered a business secret, it must be confidential, or secret. Generally known information or information that is normally available to persons who, within their activities, come into contact with such a type of information cannot be protected by business secrecy. In order for one information to be considered a business secret not to require absolute secrecy, it is important that that information is not generally known or easily accessible to relevant public circles. For example, it is possible to make certain information known to other persons that it does not endanger its status as a business secret provided that persons to whom information is disclosed are bound by certain legal means that it will not reveal it to other, third parties. Generally known facts that are not a business secret, and I must stress them, is that the tycoons have invested over a billion euros to try to bring down Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. And what are these tycoons? Many outside and many within the state, by investing money in the media, organizations that support and whatever analysts. They are also trying to blackmail President Alexander Vukic and emotionally hurt him by telling notorious lies about his son Daniel, about Brother Andrey and the entire Vukic family. We will fight with the arguments and facts behind our work. Serbia, led by President Vukic, will not allow anyone to crush and kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. They know that Serbia is not the one from 1998 and is not weak and poor as it was from 2008, while the yellow exotic tycoon octopus Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and others were headed. And they want to come back to power, but they won't succeed because they don't have any ideas, they would just tear down the president and violently take over the government, as they tried in July 2020 by breaking into the National Assembly. Serbia steps forward with strong steps, among the fastest in Europe, on the one hand are values, and on the other hand, the pragmatic policy of preserving ties with all friends, but the most important is the economy. Since 2012, Serbia has built up 315km of highways without talking about miles of highways and local roads. These are all the paths our citizens have been able to dream of for more than half a century, and now these dreams come true thanks to you, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because without your support we couldn't do any of this. In the end, I appeal and pray to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have not been vaccinated, to vaccinate and protect their health and health of their loved ones and thus reach collective immunity. I come from the Municipality of Negotin, where there are many of our people who have gone to temporary work in Western European countries and they are now returning to Serbia, they want to start businesses in Serbia, they are returning to their homeland and they are starting agricultural production, they are vaccinated in Serbia, because they have to wait there for three to six months to vaccinate, because there is no vaccine. Here they immediately go to the vaccine point and can choose between four vaccines they want to receive thanks to President Alexander Vukic and the entire health team, who would commend this time and thank them for everything they do for our health. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7173	Thank you. National MP Dusan Radojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7174	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I, when I analyse the laws, like to enter into their essence and talk with fellow Members and citizens, want to see what the benefits and interests of citizens are and get the state of Serbia through their implementation and implementation of those laws. As a state, we have committed to establishing co-operation with the EU's law and this Law on the Protection of Business Secrets, that we will take another step on this path, which is a very good and quality step, because although this law is European, it is largely protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia, our economy, and yet also our citizens. Why do I say that? Well, two-thirds of all the products and services we export are aimed at the EU area and our biggest partners are just coming from the EU area. A colleague, Milica Dacic, mentioned the Forverk factory, which is one of the largest foreign investments that has come to Cačak in the last 30 years. It's a factory that currently employs 600 of our fellow citizens, with a further trend in employee growth. It is the right way that we can take advantage of co-operation and all European laws and bring our laws into line in the area of economy and rights when it comes to the creation of new jobs. It's something citizens are interested in. That's why I think this law is good. We must not forget that from 2000 to 2012 there was one poor government in Serbia, and the result of that government in 2012 was 27% of our citizens' unemployed, and that from 2012, after fiscal consolidation and public finance arrangements, by planning a clear strategy, and by forming and voting such quality laws, we created conditions to create new jobs and thus to employ so many citizens that today unemployment is somewhere between 7% and 9%, varying because of the crown, but we have also shown that in all these challenges that the Crown has brought, that we have managed well, that we have preserved our national and national interests, that we have preserved the economy and what is most important, which President Aleksandar Vukic pointed out, preserved the lives of our citizens. The greatest contribution that we citizens now and as individuals can bring at this point, to respond to the call for vaccination, especially for us young people, who remain on this. The older citizens made their contribution. It's just that we're in the wrong place to make a contribution now, to vaccinate, and to bring life back to normal. It's a waste of all investment in infrastructure, wastes all the factories if we have to continue to suffer all these consequences that the Crown brings us. We as a serious state, which has clearly shown that our country's path is to the EU, but also to show in many fields independence and independence, has proved to be good, because we have provided enough vaccines thanks to this policy and managed to cope with all these difficulties. I would just like to take the opportunity now to address an organization within the Dvora, I don't know what their movement is called, about women, because the previous weekend was criticised by the MPs from Cačka that they didn't really understand what we were bringing here, the laws regarding discrimination and what was achieved and the protection of families and every form of violence in the family, that it surprised me that there was such a thing, because I expected them in their previous life to at least condemn the behaviour of their leader Boška Obradovic when it comes to violence directed towards Maja Gojkovic, the then president of the National Assembly, and today's minister, or perhaps even condemn violence and attack against journalist Maru Dragovic and Gordana Zelek. It's all sort of gone wrong, so I thought it was their policy, that they wouldn't judge their leader, but today I definitely see in their statements that they don't understand and fight for the needs and rights of the family, they don't mind any form of discrimination, they don't mind violence against women, and they simply don't advocate equality between women and men in this society. I can tell them that if they wanted to get familiar with these laws or make some of their own contributions to making those laws, they could respond to a public call and make some of their remarks. So, we will not deal with this and frankly, we will not teach them what they need to know and what their programme should be and the fight in Serbia's normal, modern and modern state. So, if they can do what they can, let them get involved and invite the citizens to vaccination. If they can't, let them leave us alone, because their coalition accomplices have shown concern and what they know when they've been in power for 12 years. What did counterpart Mrdic say - how would Serbia today look if they were in power due to this crown? Far be it from us that we have experienced, that the DS is today leading us politics at the time of these greatest challenges facing the whole world and Europe. We are fortunate that the people have chosen President Alexander Vukic. We follow this policy clearly, we clearly represent it, and we pass quality laws that protect the interests and health of our citizens, but we protect the economy and these laws defend our businessmen, because not only do we bring our laws in line with European laws, when it comes to economics, but we also create new conditions and quality protection for our businessmen when it comes to protecting intellectual property or business secrets, preventing unfair competition and creating conditions for them to be carefree, because we know that there have been many examples that some people have been more abused, stealing other people's ideas, creating large capital. Today, the state takes care of these businessmen with a series of laws shows it, a series of measures that support the economy and everything we do, I say again, we do in the interest of the people of this country, and I call on one more young and all my generationally close young people to respond to the call for vaccination, to make their contribution to return to normal as soon as possible and to celebrate our victories again and to continue to do what we did before the crown, to create new jobs and to build a safe future for us, but also for all of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7175	Thank you. The word is Nevenko Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7176	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a debate on the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets. This law allows legal protection of business secrets from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure. The protection of business secrets was governed by the 2011 Business Secret Protection Act. This proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets carries out the harmonisation of the system of protection of business secrets with EU regulations and regulations. The protection of business secrets protects the investment of economic operators in the development, acquisition and application of knowledge and other information, which gives them an advantage over competition. Business secret protects information relating to production processes, financial, development and business plans, marketing strategies, market research and the like. Also, this law protects intellectual property, patents, design and copyright, as well as access to knowledge that is valuable to economic operators. This law will put order in keeping and exchange information and ensure guarantee and security for both large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. This will create an opportunity for even greater investment in new technologies and innovative development in Serbia's market, which will further accelerate economic growth, create opportunities to strengthen and strengthen the real sector, as well as the innovation sector, which will further create conditions for the employment of young people and quality personnel and their stay in our country. This will further strengthen our economy that has seen remarkable results and progress in the period behind us despite very difficult conditions. Bringing large investors at the state level will create conditions for investing in smaller areas such as southern and southeast Serbia and what my Bosilegrad municipality is like, where I come from. Why am I bringing this up? Because on Sunday, March 23rd, in Dimitrovgrad, which was mostly inhabited by members of the Bulgarian national minority, two presidents met -- the President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic and the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Rumen Radev, and discovered together the monument of the brothers Cyril and Methodius to the creators of our letter that we are using today. The two presidents confirmed once again that Serbs and Bulgarians are brotherly people, that relations between the two countries are high-level and that the Bulgarian minority, which I belong to, should be a bridge of co-operation and integration. Bulgarian President Rumen Radev told the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia to be proud that they are Bulgarians, to guard their roots, to guard their culture and tradition, to guard their language, to be loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to respect its laws. The Bulgarian national minority living in Serbia is just like that. To the satisfaction of members of Bulgaria's national minority, President Aleksandar Vucic announced investments precisely in areas where the Bulgarian minority lives, because they are concentrated in the poorest part of southern and Southeast Serbia. My Bosilegrad municipality is in a very invisible position on this issue, because because of the distance and lack of infrastructure for years ago there is no interest in investment investors in my municipality, so migration is so pronounced that it threatens to devastate my end, because Bosilegrad has been abandoned for years back as a appendix, out there somewhere at the end of the world. According to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we can develop good relations in the future between Serbia and Bulgaria to the joy of people living here, so close to the border, and who share love for the two states, which are precisely members of the Bulgarian minority and they can, according to the president, count on the extended hands of the Serbian state. The two presidents agreed to work together to bring investors to the parts of Serbia where my countrymen live, to give these people a chance to stay on their centuries-old hearths, to live and work within the Serbian state, to build a future for themselves and their children. This confirms that the state of Serbia is a state that cares for all its citizens regardless of their religious, national or any other belonging, regardless of what part of the Serbian state they live in. To conclude, in voting day, I will support the law that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7177	Thank you. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7178	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have had opportunities to discuss my distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliaments to hear much about the results we have achieved in the field of development of our economy, making it clear that, from the country before 2012, which was not at all interesting to investors, we have become the country that is champion of attracting foreign direct investment, but also the state in which it invests in the development of knowledge and which develops its knowledge-based economy. It's been a long time since we've managed to build this environment, but certainly we won't stop there, that we'll continue to work on its upgrade, so from the activities of raising the infrastructure itself, by harmonising the law with European directives and accepting examples of good practice, to the process of digitisation that I talked about yesterday, we've done quite a lot, and which has led to the effect that we are really highly placed on the Duing Business List in a number of segments where reforms have been carried out. If we look at just that from a country where we almost didn't have any construction sites we became a state where by the end of the year we'll have eight highways to build, there's a lot of talk about our development. I'm very proud of the Moravia corridor that's being built. In addition to being the most modern highway, not only in Serbia, but in this part of Europe, there will be a highway that will bring with it new economic zones, i.e. industrial zones that will significantly help further improve the business environment in the West Morava Basin where around 500,000 of our citizens live, which will help to improve life and the quality of life. When we talk about investments, of course, they are not small, we have a large number of new companies that have come and we have passed a phase from a country that was interesting for investments that were mostly based on work-intense activities, we have now become a country that attracts investment that will benefit our people's knowledge, our students, which we can, of course, and how we can praise, or investment that will invest a lot in this research and development sector, which is what we will actually improve our intellectual segment when we talk about our economy. In addition, we have also seen that the state invests a lot of resources in the development of science, in the development of institutes. Especially when we are talking about the Institute, yesterday, as we know, is the laid stone for building a new building called Biosens Institute in Novi Sad that we can and can be proud of, that it is an institute that, as we know, develops products that will help further improve agricultural production in Serbia because it is working to implement modern technologies and digitisation in the agricultural process. But, in addition, when we talk about the dream that our economy is also contributing to the development of space exploration, well, the Biosens Institute is the one dealing with the development of technology that will tomorrow be an integral part of the satellite that will fly to Jupiter in 2022 and explore this largest planet in our solar system. Otherwise, 4.5 million for the construction of this institute has been allocated for the construction itself, while 9.5m euros will be invested in the purchase of the most modern equipment and if we say that support has been given by the European Investment Bank, this is proof of how far Serbia has progressed and as an area for investment and support of investments not only foreign, but also domestic, to say, domestic businessmen and domestic institutions. So this law that we are talking about today, which is the Law on the Protection of Business Secret, is one additional step that will help the business environment in Serbia improve, because, as we know, someone would be interested in doing business at all, and it requires that it has a stable business environment. We have done on a macroeconomic plan to have a stable exchange rate, we have low stable inflation, the state is there that helps both its subsidies and its programmes to form, that companies that operate can improve their business, we stimulate young people to deal with entrepreneurship, and this law will also significantly improve the rise in levels of competitive combat on the market itself because on our way to the EU, on our way to the development of the market economy we are indeed determined not only on words but on concrete parts. So this law will ensure that, in addition to the protection of natural intellectual property, business secrets are carried out and, as we know, include production processes, business plans, financial plans, advertising strategies, market examination results, supplier lists and clients, drawings, architectural projects, construction plans and the like. All that can significantly affect the business of a particular company, and whose acquisition can in a non-competitive way affect the change in the business environment itself. In addition, any creative creation that protects the right intellectual property that can contain elements of business secrets within it will also be protected by this law. What is also important to say is that the procedures in the protection of business secrets are also precise, but also in the conduct of protection proceedings, and it is important to note that unlike the previous ones that were in force, the deadlines that would, of course, be allowed to take appropriate legal steps in case of illegal acquisition of business secrets and their outflows from the firm can be taken to protect companies. So this is another set of laws that further confirms our determination on the way to the EU, given that it is in line with all European directives, and that in this way we make it clear that we are really a country that, as I say, is not only on the words, but also in parts going towards the EU, and otherwise all of this thanks to the policy led by our President Alexander Vukic, which is a policy of constant improvement of our country and as I say, this is an important segment that will raise our economy that will address the development of a knowledge-based economy, and the knowledge-based economy is what the future of all countries and all those countries that are going to implement this concept of developing their economy can and successfully deal with a number of problems as well as with which, as we can see by the results, we are successfully fighting. So by realising the "Serbia 2025" Plan, we will be able to develop our knowledge-based economy and thanks to that we are champions and attract investment, which is why in March the average salary was 555 euros, as I said, we have low inflation, we have never had more construction sites in Serbia, we develop our railway infrastructure, we invest in the development of scientific and technological parks, we invest in the development of our scientific institutes, and we will indeed have a real GDP growth rate of 6% at the end of this year. It's not something only we claim. It is something that international institutions like the IMF and other institutions, based on their forecasts and research, confirm that this will happen. Because of this and what President Vukic asks both ministers and representatives of local self-government and ourselves, which is that we are constantly learning, that we are constantly perfecting ourselves and that we are constantly doing because this is what the characteristics and economies based on knowledge and what I can finally say that the results that we have achieved in the time of the pandemic and in the fight against the crown and on the economic plan and whatever else is something that everyone in the world recognises and in their research, as I say, and the forecasts prove that what is the prognosis of these 6% is something that will happen, and all thanks to the policies that President Aleksandar Vukic has made for us, and which we need to implement until the end and in the implementation of this policy, no one will stop us on this path, so that in the day of voting with satisfaction with fellow Members of the Legisandar Vukic – For our children, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7179	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic. You have 14 and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7180	Thank you, Mr. President. That's enough time to say things. You can say that in a few seconds, but I'll try to be as short as possible. Namely, respected colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, are here today before us a new legislative proposal. A lot of it is written in the very explanation of this law and it may have been defined for the first time in a proper way as a business secret, which is how it can be endangered, how it is kept etc. There is a lot of government representatives who were in the morning, Minister Atanaskovic, said in her oral explanation of this law, and the main things she said concern the protection and process of production and as she said protection of the production process, are protected by lists and architecture, information systems and various other information that follow the day-to-day business. The minister will say in her oral statement that it is a harmonisation or harmonisation of legislation with the EU's legal norm. However, what is important here in Serbia is that harmonisation is not only done for the sake of harmonisation and for the sake of EU accession. In Serbia, these things are primarily done to regulate the Serbian society itself, and the fact is that the principles on which the EU society as a community of the most developed people on the ground of Europe is a good example of how Serbian society should be regulated and certainly cannot be denied. I thought it was important to clarify that. However, it seems to me that the most important thing that Minister Atanaskovic said this morning is that this law in Serbia protects investment. In fact, investments are if we are to realistically what the resurrection and recovery of Serbia rests on. In 2020 alone, Serbia has close to 2.9 billion euros in foreign direct investment, which is more than in the sum of the four countries. In fact, it's exactly what it raises Serbia from the ashes and lifts it to its feet. But that's not the end of the story. It's not just about Serbia. In previous days, as chairman of the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, together with the assistant secretary-general, I visited our community in the region, especially in Mostar, where we spoke with people from Serbian associations and political representatives, in Trebinj where a number of Serb political leaders will gather, particularly those from municipalities in the Federation and BiH, then Podgorica, or the Serbian House, and all the organisations that the Serbian House gathers and the Serbian House itself, financed by the President of the Republic, i.e. Whose initiative it was founded as the roofing institution of the Serb people in Montenegro, followed by Tirana and Skadar, where they believed or did not continue to live by a small Serb community. If you ask me for an impression, it could split into two. The difficult position of our community wherever it lives, especially where there are no political representatives and direct policymakers and great pride and consideration in Serbia's success. This is what is unique and this pride and success and the perception of Serbia's progress is exactly what gives them hope and keeps them on their centuries-old hearths. It's not that glare without a foundation. In these environments, too, the Republic of Serbia feels what it is doing and what its president is doing. And what's basically that success, is that I'm returning you back to investment. That investment in Serbia is not difficult to feel success in both Serbia and the environment. Dear Minister, since this is exactly the legal proposal in the function of protection, primarily investment, as a small segment of the overall policy run by the president of the state and the government today, we SNS MPs will support this legislative proposal. Dear colleagues, Serbia, I am obliged to welcome you from our people in Mostar, Trebinj, Podgorica and Tirana. Five minutes enough. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7181	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. You left nine minutes of room for Dr. Mark Atlagic. I hope Marco can do it for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7182	Dear President of the National Assembly, as far as I'm concerned, we can stay for three hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7183	I didn't ask how long it could be, how short it could be.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7184	Thank you for your information. I know what you meant by saying, but I don't want to discuss it. Let me just say a few sentences since my esteemed colleagues and colleagues today have mostly said everything about these two laws. Let me stress that these laws are in fact harmonising the system of security of business secrets with certain EU regulations, the European Parliament and the Council of 16 June 2016. The definition of business secrets is given, the information is specified and under what conditions can be considered as a business secret and what is protected by business secrecy. However, let me say that our political opponents could have passed this law before and brought it into line with the EU, however, they did not care, especially those of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Gilas. He doesn't care about that. Dragan Gilas and his media are constantly boasting of objective information. That's more like them. These days, they presented economist Vladimir Vukkovic as a member of the Fiscal Council. And, behold, miracles are praised for being objectively informed, and Vukkovic left the Fiscal Council in 2020 and became a worker of a private local bank. So they lied and deceived their few viewers, and all in order for Dragan Gilas to raise the ratings to himself, but unsuccessfully. I've got an honorary president for a little while, but I'm still going to start. I'm gonna use this time, and if it doesn't end tomorrow, I'm gonna keep going. I will not give up saying that from time to time, from day to day, Dragan Gilas and his associates in the most ground floor insult President Vukic, and this time not only him, but all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believe or not the state of Serbia and its associates. One of them is Mr. Petricic. He insulted the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, insulted the president of the state, and he reported and criticised us in a highly primitive way that is not appropriate to a man when he said, quote: "This people are unenlightened and naive." Imagine what he's saying. "The first time we had a leader to make fun of. He's a joke. We have a leader I'm making fun of," finished the quote. Does this really have a level of culture and a cultural worker? Is this the bottom of that man, Dragan Gilas, and his closest associate, Mr. Petricic? Mr Petricic, it is not your fault that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, not the people, nor the citizens of Serbia, was the reason that the "Politicals" editor shot you because you took two to three thousand euros a month to the citizens, just because you made four to five cartoons a month. It's not President Vukic, or the citizens of Serbia, because you came back from Canada as a failed cartoonist, is it, Mr. Petricic, right, Mr. Gilas? Of course it is. I'd like you to deny it. That Mr. Petricic is operated on moral qualities also shows his statement when he said Serbia's president was one of the Fascism inspirers. Petricic literally said, I quote, "Vučić is one of the Fascism's inspirers," finished the quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic is a proven anti-fascist. What are the motives of Mr. Petrich your lies, the fiction from the bottom of the snake? That you may not have received a prize from Mr. Gilas or Jeremic or your motives are in your structure of personality. Maybe one thing, maybe the other. Your dictionary that you insult the President of the Republic is below the level of human dignity, when you say, quote: "Alexander Vukic is a lunatic and a maniac from the stadium," finished quote. Dear citizens, do you recognize these words whose are, who have spoken them these days? No one else but Dragan Gilas, you heard that the other day. Here, you see the alliances of Petricic and Gilas, their insults. When did we, the President of the National Assembly, insult anyone in this high house or outside this high house? They think we insult them if we quote them these words. Now, you're going to have to read a lot and remember, respected political opponents, what you say, because I'm going to quote you over and over and over again for 12 to 15 years what you said, not in this high house, but in this country of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia. There's someone who's following it, and I'm going to keep reminding you, especially when you're working against the state's interest today when you're making statements. Let me say it further. Imagine what Mr. Petricic said: "Serbia is a country where stupid blind slaves live, there is nothing good in it", finished quote. Dear citizens of Serbia, imagine who insults you, Dragan Djilas and Petricic. That you are blind slaves, that we are all blind slaves, that there is nothing good. There are, Mr. Petricic and Mr. Gilas, a lot of good and beautiful - good citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who work tirelessly from today until tomorrow, where they build and work constantly, highways, roads, hospitals, schools, homes of health, waterways, sewers still do not count. Why are you saying that, Mr. Petrich and Mr. Gilas? Why don't you say this was built during the SNS? And what was built for your authorities? Well, the citizens know, you brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy, you destroyed our past, you destroyed our present, and if you had stayed in power just another year after 2012, you would have destroyed our future. While Aleksandar Vukic daily returns our country's international reputation, fighting for peace, not only in the region but throughout the world, leads the battle for our country's economic prosperity, leads the policy of peace, solidarity policy, not only in Europe, but throughout the world and modernization policy, as long as you, Mr. Gilas and Petricic, are putting the money you pumped out of our pockets in 67, at least so far known accounts, in 17 countries, starting with Serbia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Hong Kong, Mauricias, Holland and God knows everything. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will defeat the mafia, let Serbia live.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-26-0.u7185	Thank you, Mr. Professor. You were right. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. I just want to remind you that tomorrow we have a debate in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID card, and in the afternoon parliamentary questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and finally, after 19.00 hours, we have a day to vote. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 13th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 86 registered deputies. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 114 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Since Mr. Bakarec checked in, I'm asking if there's anyone before him, since he's always picking up Millie? Here you go, Milly.
