ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that, at this time, 175 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? National MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3968	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to ask Mr. Alexander Vulin, and the particular question concerns hunters. Since Serbia has a large number of hunters, hunting people. Serbia's Hunting Union is very active now and when... situations related to the prevention of large numbers of infectious diseases not to spread from animal to human. The specific question is whether to enter into the process of changing the Law on Arms and Ammunition precisely because under that law it gives authority to police officers that, in any case, if a problem arises, whether a verbal conflict, whether or not someone falsely reports someone who is a hunter, that police officers are coming to him at the same time, taking arms, in all of his household, so it doesn't matter whether his son is a third or fourth-grade high school student, had some verbal conflict together with someone else in the department, someone reported it to the police, there are arms and hunting weapons and all his father and his grandfather's weapons and grandfather's grandfather. Until the process is over these people can't go hunting, and we all know that many of our Serbian citizens love money very much, go hunting, and we have nearly 80,000 hunters in Serbia. It doesn't matter if he's a Srlig hunter, whether he's from Prepolje, whether he's from Tutin, whether he's from Subotica. All those people who go hunting, and this is what happens to some unkind event that someone deliberately wants to frame him, and it happens, because now it's everyday. It happens that a friend or friend of a friend of his enemy reports a hunter threatening him, at the same time comes into his house, into the household, takes all the weapons, and thus this hunter and his perhaps father, his grandfather, can no longer go hunting, and we have situations that only someone has a gun because it's a memory of his ancestors, so my question is whether that law will soon change. I have information that Minister Vulin has also created a task force that will enter into the process of changing this law precisely because it will be defined in the law that in certain particular situations a weapon can be taken away from whoever committed some kind of offence or in addition to a violation in an attempt without it being for his family. It is a big problem for a large number of Serbian hunters, and I would like it to be resolved as soon as possible. We have a situation, also similar, and that's what the police minister Mr. Vulin said, that when someone comes to attack someone in their household, let's say Jankovic Janko comes into the household of Petrovic Petra, attacks, this use of weapons to defend his house, his people, his householders, he can answer for it. We had the same case when the migrants entered the private property pay and attacked the owner. He defended himself and shot himself, and now that man has a responsibility and he's on his way to criminal charges and he can be arrested. I expect that this law will be changed so that all of us who are in danger of being attacked tomorrow, and we have weapons in the house that we can defend our own threshold. Once again, I would like to thank our General Bratislava Dikic, who was arrested four years and four months ago in Montenegro. He was in prison and now he's been released. This man defended our people whether they were in Kosovo, whether they were in any part of our country of Serbia, he was a fighter and will remain a fighter for every citizen and he is the man who is now here in Serbia. He came free and I would welcome him and wish him a lot of health, because these people were for us and they were defending our country of Serbia and we must always have respect for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3969	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3970	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Chapter 35 in the case of EU negotiations with Serbia is specific and contains mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the agreements reached under the Belgrade and Pristina dialogue. This has been established by the EU's negotiating framework for the conduct of accession negotiations with Serbia, which says the issue of normalisation of relations between Serbia and Kosovo will be discussed under Chapter 35 - other issues, as a specific item to be dealt with at an early stage of the negotiations, as well as throughout the negotiation process, and in particular in justified cases in other relevant chapters. The normalisation of relations with Kosovo should mean the launch of a reconciliation process in which the past is faced, as well as the demand for forgiveness for what has been done. Certainly, the process of normalisation and reconciliation would also contribute to a complete clarification of missing persons issues, as well as all those cases where victims are civilians. One such case is the one that happened at the Panda cafe in Peca in 1998. On December 14, 1998, five students at the Ivan (14), Zoran (18), Svetislav, Dragan and Vukosav (17) and November Ivan (25) sat in the cafe "Panda" located across the street from the school. Two masked armed men and rapals cut off young men and then fled. It was a time when Slobodan Milosevic wanted to deal with the Albanian issue in Kosovo with weapons. The crime committed at the Panda cafe in Peća, which was immediately attributed to Albanian terrorists, has led to mass arrest. At least 150 Albanians from Kapišnica village on 17 December 1998 were brought to the soup in Peća. In search of Albanian houses and beatings of Albanians, 200 police and military members participated, media reported later. Four or five Albanians were arrested and after several months of detention in Leskovac were released because there was no evidence that they participated in the crime. Meanwhile, a priest from Pecka Patriarchia, Ranko Jovic, told the list "Kurr" that perpetrators are known, but that their names are hidden, especially nationality. By 2013, families were convinced that the crime was committed by Albanians, but then as head of the Bureau for Security Coordination on 28 December 2013, President Aleksandar Vucic said on the show "Tough Word" that the crime in "Panda" was not committed by Albanians, as we believed so far, and that the public would be appalled when the truth was revealed. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic later said he also had information and knowledge of the murder of six young Serbs in 1998 in Peća, for which no one has yet answered. I have information and knowledge, I quote -- but our competent authorities are looking for complete evidence that this terrible crime could be lit up. As for Serbia and me personally, the parents of the victims can be absolutely confident that we will not hide the truth regardless of who participated in this terrible and serious crime, whether it is Albanians or Serbs, which I suppose would surprise many, President Vukic said in an interview with TV First. President Vukic also said he was the first to collect the courage to talk about it and not worry about the risk he took. The former prosecutor, also for war crimes, Vladimir Vukcevic told the newspaper "Today" for the anniversary of the massacre that the prosecutor's office had come up with in time in support of the fact that there were no Albanians in the area near the Panda cafe, but only Serbian military and police forces. The investigation into this case was launched in 2016, and as far as I know, 36 witnesses have been investigated. Now, 23 years after the crime at the Panda cafe in Peća and several years after President Alexander Vukic's statement that he was almost sure who was responsible for this terrible crime, the public still expects the truth about who killed six men and wounded 15 young people on 14 December 1998. I think the state has a duty to the entire public, and especially to the families of the murdered young men, to tell the truth to this disgusting crime. So my question for the Minister of Police and the Minister of Justice is, have the perpetrators of this crime been identified and will the indictment be filed? Why is it dangerous even the president of the state to talk about this crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3971	Thank you. National MP Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3972	Dear Chairman, I ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic and the Office for Public Investment Management. On 20 May 2013, a contract was signed on the construction of an institution of special scientific and technological importance, on the construction of the Centre of Excellence. The contract was signed by the then Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, then the Rector of the University of Kragujevac, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Arsenijević, then Mayor Veroljub Stevanović and Director of the project management unit in the public sector. The Centre for Excellence would cover an area of 11,500 square meters, and the implementation of the project was planned by the end of 2015. Since then, 32% of the plans have been built to this day. The rest of the work isn't on the dock. The project management unit in the public sector, shortened the JUP, responded that only a year had been waiting for the European Investment Bank to agree on the change in the way the Republic of Serbia sought, and when it gave consent to the contractor who got the job at the end of 2015, he had major business problems. Meanwhile, JUP has issued another international call for public procurement of contractors to continue work. The call was sent in October 2020 to continue in January 2021, but the deadline had passed. Now I'd like to brief you on the role and importance of the Centre of Excellence. The centre is defined as a priority site for biomedicine research, molecular and cell research, as well as a place to store stem cells and their functional research and use in the treatment of various diseases. Kragujevac biomedicines would have a place to work, young scientists would have a space for professional training, and patients from all over Serbia would have an adequate place to store stem cells, as well as for serious therapy and treatment of diseases such as various tumour, diabetes, multiple sclerosis and some genetic diseases. It could be designed specialized therapy adapted to any immune system so that our citizens wouldn't have to go abroad for treatment and therapy. We are witnessing that unfortunately, more and more children whose lives depend on their parents' financial opportunities, because their lives are given to them by fantastically expensive medicines for gene therapy. Just thanks to the incredible energy and solidarity of the citizens, who in this crazy pandemic time managed to raise millions of dollars, these little beings won battles. Now you understand what a loss it is to the state that the building of the center still doesn't have, and also to the banks of the stem cells. I believe this is a question, not only of national importance, but also of national interest. So I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Public Investment Office, when will works to build the Centre of Excellence be continued and what is the jurisdiction of the JUP and what is their responsibility for failing to meet the agreed obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3973	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3974	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning, before I ask a question, just one dyspression. It is interesting that individual MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are pushing for the supposed normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations, and are doing the opposite. On the other hand, such tragedies that took place in Peca are not to be used for political purposes at the Panda cafe. I want, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to apologize first and foremost to the families of the victims for being abused in this way by this tragedy for political populism and political marketing. I don't want to talk about it today. It's just dyspression. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, a while ago, I asked, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, for the President of Parliament to deliver a draft to us, to try through the secretariats to deliver a draft and a proposal for a European Parliament report, bearing in mind the fact that during the last week, a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs chaired by Mr David McCallister, where they were to be among other things and the amendment, because I felt that there were many open issues when it came to amendments that, I was then convinced that they would be adopted, so unfortunately it happened. I thank you, Mr President, for what we have, it seems to me that all the parliamentary groups have received a report from the European Parliament and that document of the European Parliament, which was drawn up on the basis of the report by Vladimir Bilchik, was delivered to the Government a few days ago, was also delivered to the National Assembly. About that document, I'd like to comment on a few things first. First of all, the resolution is highly harsh and I would say inappropriately that there are views on Serbia in a large number of areas, and above all it is expressed doubts about the legitimacy of the new parliament, because there is no opposition even though we are on the Stabilisation and Association Committee, Mr Orlic is here, from Mrs Tanja Fajon very clearly heard that Parliament, right, has legitimacy and legality and talked as representatives of parliament, which means that they accept parliament and the assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, they also criticise the fact that the electoral threshold has been reduced before the elections themselves, and we have just done so as a result of an inter-party dialogue and it is not the only one. You know, we're being criticised for changing the laws regarding electoral legislation in the election year, and they forced us through inter-party dialogue to amend a number of laws directly concerning electoral legislation. They say parliament doesn't control enough executive power which is absolutely not true. It is simply amazing that the European Parliament in this report is dealing with, and I have asked for this reason to get a draft, bearing in mind that a European Parliament report will be adopted at the end of the month and that it will definitely be adopted in this form as it has been done, in fact on the basis of amendments adopted at the Stabilisation Committee meetings, or the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee. What is also a rough assessment, which is that in the National Assembly we have a hate speech against MEPs. No one has ever expressed or spoken in this National Assembly... First, they don't know what hate speech is, they need to see the legal formulation, there's Mr. Fila, if they don't know, there's also Mr. Martinovic, so they can deliver a question, so they can explain to them what hate speech means. The fact that the MPs present the facts that offend them is something else. Mr. President, one question for you. How, Mr. President, a few days ago did you say that the National Assembly could bring its resolution as a pandemic of the European Parliament resolution in Serbia, can we expect a debate on the document submitted by the rapporteur for Serbia, Vladimir Bilchik, so that we, as the national representatives, would also express our views and perhaps, in an argument, deny several views expressed in the report in the motion for a resolution? Another short question, which I think is important these days, is the issue of vaccines, which is the EU announcement of the introduction of whaling passports, which has caused great panic among citizens. Making this decision would be contrary to the highest European standards that the EU has just advocated and asks for respect for such standards from its members, as well as from those we apply for EU membership. Just the top officials of one EU Member State have received a Chinese vaccine, so I wonder what will the EU do in this case? Tomorrow we'll know what the outcome will be. If a decision like this is really made, I don't want to believe it will, but if a decision like this is made, it would be scandalous in international terms. The question is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia - what will be the response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3975	Thank you. As far as this first part of your question is concerned, since you asked me that question, I also told you last time that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the one who has the authority to bring and determine its views on all issues, including this issue of the report on Serbia in the European Parliament. However, the report has not yet been adopted, it will be March 24th. When it is adopted and in what form, the Committee on European Integration will declare that, and if necessary, we will hold a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3976	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while the state of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic is fighting for the development of the economy, state and national interests, against the crown of the virus and against the mafia, we have panic in certain tycoons that stole the state and its citizens. With this in mind, I ask two questions, and it concerns tycoon Dragan Gilas, one of the leaders of the opposition, who stole our country, who illegally acquired over 600m euros, in particular 619m euros. I ask the competent state institutions and the finance ministry, I mean the Tax Administration, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Serbian Prosecutor's Office, to find out and to announce to the public everything regarding Gilas' accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland and other exotic countries, for which we still have no knowledge. The fact is that Dragan Gilas is on accounts in some of the paradise islands, for him are tax havens, removing millions and millions of euros stolen from Serbian citizens. The people in Serbia must know the answers to these questions, and the competent institutions, since the Republic of Serbia is a country of order and law, must examine all this, as well as when it comes to our fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia, to establish and origin the money of Dragan Gilas, to establish the financial flows of his money, who from his family has these accounts, has these accounts from his associates, what about Gilas' companies, which are Gilas' companies, where all have accounts, in Switzerland, Mauritius or in some third countries, and in this respect, I ask another question, as regards the threats. Whoever talked about Gilas' accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland and other accounts these days was exposed to the worst possible threats. Is this about President Aleksandr Vukic, whether it is about my dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament or whether it is about a member of the presidency of our Serbian Progressive Party, Ms. Vladanka Malovic. Whoever's talking about Gilas, whoever points to his accounts, the worst threats possible. Shame on them! Therefore, I urge and ask both the police and the prosecution to respond to these threats, because it is simply amazing that in Serbia and today, individual supporters of Dragan Gilas threaten to cut a lady's hair. They're threatening every way they can, threatening families. This is not normal and therefore competent institutions must quickly answer these questions and respond. As for Gilas's millions and his accounts, I just need to remind the citizens of Serbia, imagine how many hospitals, kindergartens, schools, factories and roads could be built in the Republic of Serbia by Gilas's millions he stole from Serbian citizens. Every day we should talk, because in these moments, the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic, are doing everything to help our pensioners and health workers who are heroes of this era and to help and pay more to the citizens of Serbia, but it would have been much easier if it hadn't been for people like Dragan Gilas. Therefore, both the prosecution and the police and all the competent institutions must answer these questions, in order for Serbian citizens to see, learn and determine who it is that criticises the state policy of the Republic of Serbia. It is Dragan Gilas, his associates, his associates in business and organised crime who only want to return to power so they can steal again, so the state can't build hospitals, kindergartens and schools, factories and roads again, because he has Dragan Gilas. Therefore, I believe in both the prosecution and the police and the tax administration and that they will answer these questions and that the truth about Gilas's millions will be established and I believe that this money will be returned to the citizens of Serbia, because, once again, I remind you, what could be done and built in Serbia by Gilas's millions that he stole from all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3977	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic and Aco Petrovic. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure proposed a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the correction submitted by the Parliamentary Group "Alexandar Vukic - For our children", the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group "The Party of Justice and Reconciliation - the United Peasant Party". Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 191 for – 180, no vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 for – 183 abstention – one, no vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. The proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the composition of the Permanent Delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the International Parliamentary Institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the correction submitted by the Parliamentary Group ‘Alexandar Vučić - for our children’, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Group OF SOCIAL PARTY (SPS), the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been adopted by the National Assembly of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Sanja Eminovski, Head of the Office of Ministers, Sara Pavkov, Special Advisor in the Office of Ministers, Dragana Radulović and Sandra Lazic, Head of Department of Ministry and Nevena Dragojlović and Alexei Stepanov, advisers at the Ministry of Environment Protection. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for climate change laws. I also welcome Minister Irene Vujovic and her associates. I assume the Minister will speak to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3978	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, for the first time I have the honour and obligation to present to you, in the capacity of the Minister for Environmental Protection in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a bill of exceptional importance for the future of the country of all citizens and future generations, a law on climate change. This law has been announced for more than three years, since the first draft was prepared with the support of the European Union. The reason why he had not previously found himself in the congregation procedure is, above all, in the complexity of the subject and in the need to bring all the sectors that this act is touching into line. This is also the main prerequisite – to apply in practice after the adoption of the law and to implement it. That we have recognised the importance of adapting to changing climate conditions and establishing a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the fact that Serbia will be among the first Western Balkan countries to adopt the climate change law. We hereby confirm that environmental and climate change issues have finally been given the right place in the Serbian government and are high on the priority scale. We also show that Serbia is strongly defined to base its future economic growth and development on innovation, green energy and the creation of new, green jobs. I'd like to draw attention to a few important facts. Climate change is a global topic and a challenge that we already face with enormous consequences. It is the human factor that affects the growing climate change, while their impact is not only on the environment and biodiversity, but also on human health, quality of life and economy. Because of its geographical position, the Republic of Serbia belongs to one of the world's most endangered regions, in terms of the impact of climate change. In this region, these changes are the most pronounced. Estimates show that Serbia's medium-year temperature growth trend is higher than the global trend in medium-temperature growth, especially after 1980. We ourselves are witnessing these changes. If we just compare the climate today with the climate we remember from childhood, the real snow winters are gone, and the season is hard to distinguish. It often seems to us that in the middle of winter it is actually spring or autumn. Also, we are all witnessing that the problems Serbia has in the area of climate change, environmental protection, and especially with regard to air quality are decades old. The Serbian Progressive Party has inherited huge environmental problems by coming to power, in addition to severe economic problems. No one's ever dealt with these problems before. We are proud that we have managed to recover economically in the face of bankruptcy and that in the year when the world has hit a huge scale crisis due to the Kovid-19 pandemic, we will be the best in Europe at the rate of growth and the number of people re-exploited to millions of citizens. As we have solved major problems, such as the two-digit unemployment rate, curbed the growth of public debt, recovered the economy and factories, so we will solve decades of problems in the field of environmental protection, so as not to leave them in the legacy of future generations. That is why this law, after adoption, will be our first step in combating climate change, because other than being a global problem, it is a problem that affects every citizen of the country. Dear representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is an obligation to preserve the country for future generations and we have to work on it every day. By adopting this law, we will show the seriousness and determination to face today's greatest challenges and join the global fight against climate change. At the same time, we will show responsibility for our citizens and our children. Before I ask your support, I will explain in more detail why the adoption of the Climate Change Bill is important. The impact of climate change on our citizens and our economy can no longer be ignored. Extreme climate events such as floods, droughts, forest fires and heat waves are becoming more intense and more frequent. The damages and losses in Serbia that have caused natural disasters and natural disasters since 2000 are estimated at around seven billion euros to date. Analysis has shown that the negative impacts of climate change on GDP are rising with the rise of medium global temperatures. More than 70% of the loss is associated with drought and high temperatures. Other major causes of significant losses were floods. The impact of the negative effects of climate change is the most affected sector of health, agriculture, forestry and water economy. This roof law will contribute to the fight against climate change through the establishment of a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and a system for increasing the resilience of the sector most affected by climate change. This will have a positive impact on economic growth and development, increased competitiveness of the economy, attract investment, especially in line with European Union market standards and requirements. The bill prescribes the creation of important strategic documents that will be adopted within two years – the Climate Change Act, the Low Carbon Development Strategy above all, the Action Plan for implementation of the Strategy and the Climate Change Programme. These documents aim to establish guidelines for economic development followed by low greenhouse gas emissions in the sectors of energy, industry, agriculture, transport, construction and waste management, i.e. to contribute to the adaptation of sectors most vulnerable to climate change, namely: the health, agriculture, water and forestry sectors. Given the European Union's ambition to make Europe the first climate neutral continent by the middle of the 21st century, law enforcement and will further bring us closer to membership in the European Union through harmonisation with European legislation requirements, which will also confirm Serbia's position as regional leaders. Law enforcement will provide a basis for planning development, innovation and modernisation of the greenhouse gas emissions sectors, such as energy, infrastructure, industrial processes, traffic, waste management, agriculture. This will also contribute to improving the state of the environment, better air quality and citizens' health. The implementation of this law does not require funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. By adopting the draft law, we will establish a mechanism for timely, transparent, accurate and consistent, comparable and full reporting and verification of information on meeting obligations towards the international community, more specifically the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement. Law enforcement will, in agreement with other system laws, contribute to ensuring energy security, resource efficiency, new and green jobs, attracting investment, increasing competitiveness and fostering economic green growth, while reducing vulnerability to climate change and quality life in a climate-wide society. The law will affect raising awareness and the importance of fighting climate change and putting first systemic steps into gathering information of importance for this process. In short, I will present to you the chapters of the law. In the first chapter of the law they give the following goals. The establishment of a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient way, which contributes to achieving levels of emissions that are scientifically considered necessary to avoid dangerous changes in climate at global level. Then, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changed climate conditions by adopting and implementing sectoral policies, measures, strategies and action plans. Establishment of reporting and verification mechanisms for meeting obligations under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto Protocol, Doha amendment to Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, as well as monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. The second chapter sets out strategies and plans. The law prescribes instruments, policies and planning in the area of climate change, low-carbon development strategy, adaptation to changed climate conditions and action plans. In addition, the content and strategies of the programme and the action plan as well as the requirement for the coherence of other national strategies, general and sectoral plans and policies affecting greenhouse gas emissions with the Low Carbon Development Strategy have been prescribed. In addition, the National Council for Climate Change is being established as the advisory body of the Serbian government and its affairs are being defined. The Council is a body of exceptional importance to be chaired by the Minister for Environmental Protection, and the aim is to bring together representatives of other ministries, professional and scientific public, as well as representatives of all environmentalists and organisations, including the civil sector and the Commissioner for Gender Equality. The role of the Council is to propose topics of importance for society in general, to give an opinion on policies and strategies, given the broadest social interest when it comes to climate change. The third chapter sets out policies and measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The Chapter contains two sub-chapter, a clean development mechanism and the availability of data on fuel efficiency and carbon dioxide emissions in relation to the sale of new passenger vehicles. Under the Sub-chapter of the Clean Development Mechanism it is possible to implement programmes and projects that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse emissions for which the Government prescribes criteria and method of approval. The Sub-chapter on the availability of data on the economics of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions aims to establish a transport emission reduction system through an increase in the information of new passenger vehicle customers on specific fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. This may affect consumer choice to buy less fuel-fueled passenger vehicles and thus emit less carbon dioxide. Chapter 4, prescribes monitoring of reporting and verification of gas emissions with a greenhouse effect from the plant and aviation activities. The importance of this chapter in obtaining relevant information on gas emissions with a greenhouse effect from the plant or on air transport and goods and passengers. More quality reporting will provide operators with the basis for potential investment planning and measures to reduce emissions, thereby increasing competitiveness in the EU market. In the fifth, sixth and seventh chapters of the law, the European regulations governing the monitoring, reporting, verification of greenhouse gas emissions have been transposed. The system includes a national gas inventory system with a greenhouse effect, a policy reporting system, measurements and gas projections with a greenhouse effect. This part of the law also lays down the contents, deadlines and how the report is made, the preparation of gas emissions projections with the effect of the glass garden and the competence over the preparation of inventory. The eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh chapters prescribed administrative fees, supervision of the application of laws, criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions. I would like to point out that inspection supervision is divided into three institutions, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Market Inspectorate. Control and control are important, in order to ensure the enforcement and application of laws to all concerned, including plant operators, as well as air traffic operators. It is also important to monitor the availability of information for consumers in the economics of fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger vehicles. It is important to stress that the deadline for the adoption of sub-legislative regulations is one year from the date of adoption of the law, while the deadline for adopting a low-carbon development strategy and the adjustment programme for changed climate conditions is two years from the adoption of the law. Finally, I would like to point out once again the key benefits of the law, first of all, the new law will contribute to establishing a system for limiting greenhouse gas emissions, which will increase society's resilience in general to the negative effects of climate change, and in particular certain sectors, such as health, water, forestry and water production, provide a basis for the planning of all relevant sectors to changing climate conditions. It establishes mechanisms for reporting and verification of information in compliance with obligations towards the international community, i.e. the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement, which is very significant, the application of the law will have a positive impact on economic growth and development, increased competitiveness of the economy, attract investment, particularly in line with EU market standards and requirements. Dear People's MPs and MPs, I would like to conclude my presentation on the basis of the proposal for a law on climate change. I am certainly at your disposal for all your questions, and given all the above, I hope you will make a positive statement in the voting day and vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3979	Thank you. We're going to report to the board of directors now. Before we move on to further work, I'd just like to draw attention to my friend and former minister in my government, Ivan Tasovac, to take off his hat while he's in the National Assembly. We're moving on. The word is Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3980	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, wish you happy work and successful work today at today's session. You have the support of the Assembly's leadership, you have the support of the entire Committee and all the MPs. I will only briefly report on what the Committee on the Protection of the Environment has decided and discussed, so that I will meet the MPs with it, and the esteemed minister has talked about the reasons, objectives, content and damages if this law is not passed, as well as the obligations. I must say that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has conducted a very extensive public debate on the draft climate change law, that it has presented the draft law in six cities. It was Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Nis, Piroth and Prepolje. Also, a large number of representatives of the civil sector, NGOs, scientific institutions, as well as the economy took part. On this basis, on the basis of the debate held at the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, on 15 March at 12:00, here at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee discussed this bill in principle and I am pleased to conclude that it unanimously adopted it. I must express my satisfaction because today we have the Minister, Mrs Vujovic. She has already announced intensive legislative activity which, by this bill today, confirms because it seems to me that there have been no laws in the field of environmental protection for a long time and we have been waiting for this law and it is good that it is on the agenda today. I should also say that in the next job, the following draft laws, draft laws, you will also have the support of me and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment of all Members of the Parliament here in the Assembly, because these are the paths that we are all taking together and we are going towards a cleaner Serbia. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the need to establish a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changed climate conditions. This is particularly important because we are increasingly witnessing the occurrence of floods and droughts, as well as unexpected heat waves, which are all unfavorably reflected in agricultural crops, the drying of forests, but also the availability of drinking water, as well as increasingly frequent fires. We all still remember the catastrophic floods in 2014, when in the worst form we could see the devastating forces of natural forces caused by climate change, etc., not to mention the floods that occurred in the coming years, where local self-government declared emergency situations. Unfortunately, in addition to that, our economy and economy suffer very much from climate change. The crop of corn was halved in 2019, when eastern and southern Serbia and Vojvodina were hit. In November 2020, it was recorded as the fourth most dry November since 1951. By passing this law, the Republic of Serbia will fulfil the obligations set out in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, as well as the Paris Agreement, but thus bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation and legal provisions. What is particularly important to us is that during the construction of Chapter 27 Serbia, as soon as it reaches the level of quality of the environment of citizens in the EU. Economic growth, followed by a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, is one of the five EU strategic objectives declared in 2009 and is one of the main tasks of the green and circular economy. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to establish a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting adaptation to modified climate conditions at the level of each Member State of the Convention and of the Agreement. The Republic of Serbia is a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change from 10 June 2001 and the Paris Agreement of 24 August 2017. In her presentation, the Minister spoke of all the documents to be passed under this law and I would not repeat it, but I would refer to an important provision of this law which is particularly important and concerning both our Assembly and our Committee on Environmental Protection, which concerns public participation. It is envisaged that the ministry will inform the public in a draft strategy of the Action Plan and the adjustment programme and allow for opinions and objections. I point out this aspect of the bill because for years the Committee on Environmental Protection has been fostering an important mechanism for improving the communication of citizens and associations of citizens with legislative authorities, in order to affect the improvement of environmental laws, which is a "green chair". This unique mechanism enables continuous and coordinated participation of civil society representatives in the work of the Committee and is one of the most important mechanisms for involving citizens in the work of the Assembly committees, and has been established in accordance with the Archus Convention. I must say, the Minister has shown great openness to the public in the past few months or times. On the basis of this, I can conclude that the adoption of this law is necessary, so the Committee on Environmental Protection decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for a law on climate change in principle. I thank you for letting me finish the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3981	Thank you. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3982	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as we have heard, the proposal for a climate change law regulates issues of importance for limiting greenhouse gas emissions and what is extremely significant, and for adapting to climate change, changed climate conditions. The ultimate goal of passing this law that is indeed finally in front of us after announcements from a few years ago and from the last one is to achieve a reduction in the level of gas considered necessary from the point of view of science to avoid changes in the climate that we face at global level. The establishment of this system is also a prerequisite for the introduction of a emission trading system which is a key EU instrument in the fight against climate change, which allows the reduction of emissions to be achieved, not only to be achieved but to be achieved in a cost-effective and economically efficient way. The proposed solutions are also an expression of the need to comply with EU climate change requirements, as we heard and as established by the European Integrations Committee when we discussed this proposal in principle at Friday's session. The concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere was caused by human activity, resulting in more intense and extreme changes in the climate than those naturally expected. In order to reduce these impacts on climate change and to adapt and survive the life of the country in order to do so, it is necessary to reduce gas emissions with a global greenhouse effect, if we are talking about the world, the EU, and Serbia. Here, a respected minister, in the opening statement, as well as a respected colleague, the Committee President, mentioned the Paris Agreement. Therefore, by adopting this Agreement from Paris, along with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2015, as well as by implementing this Agreement the following year 2016, the international community, including the Member States of the Convention, confirmed its commitment to economic growth, followed by the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The entry into force of this Agreement confirmed that economic growth, investment, followed by the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, will very quickly become one of the requirements of the international market, i.e. one of the conditions of product placement and the competitiveness of the economy itself. This development has been one of the five strategic objectives of the EU itself since 2009 and one of the fundamentals of the green and circular economy. Achieving those objectives requires adaptation to changing climate conditions at the level of each Member State of the Convention and of the Agreement, which is also the subject of the establishment of this proposal for a law that lies before us. The Republic of Serbia, as we heard in the previous presentation, has been a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change since 2001, since 10 June 2001, and when we talk about the Paris Agreement, it has been a member since August 2017. The establishment of a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changing climate conditions, in addition to meeting obligations towards the international community, is one of the conditions of sustainable economic development of the country and risk reduction, damage and loss of natural and natural disasters and disasters. It is significant to point out that this law was created just as a result of work on two twinning projects funded by the EU. One of the main reasons for the adoption of this Climate Change Law proposal is to finally set up a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changed climate conditions, but also to meeting our obligations towards the international community, therefore, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement and bringing domestic legislation into line with EU law. In this respect, it is important, firstly, to stress that the adoption of this law and of the envisaged sublegislative acts, is done to bring our domestic legislation in line with EU law. Of course, in line with the provisions of European legislation relating to EU Member States, it is not possible to achieve fully before the very accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. In addition, certain provisions will be part of the membership negotiations that are yet to come, thus full compliance with EU legal assets will be achieved only after the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3983	Thank you, Mrs. Elvira. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3984	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is before us a very important law, which in its title, in fact, reflects only one aspect of its importance, and with its content, in fact, shows a very rich layer of topics, but also of exceptional importance to citizens, to the country and to our near and further future. That is why the theme of this law obliges us to approach the debate with the highest degree of responsibility and attention. The relationship to nature is one of four key relationships that makes man’s role a success on earth and thus fulfills a general purpose of his life. The first is a relationship with God, the second is a relationship with himself, the third is a relationship with other people, and the fourth is a relationship with nature or with its own environment. Man, by definition of his role, is a master on earth. The earth, or nature, is subordinated to it. Since it is an extraordinary wealth, great grace, submission or trust of nature to man, as well as in the sense of any legality of the relationship of grace and of the one to whom it is given, it must be consistent with the degree of his responsibility. So, you can't master these benefits, you can't have such wealth, and you can't have responsibility and actually what we have today in terms of certain disorders in our environment, or in nature is the result of a man's irresponsibility toward nature. That is why this law deserves attention, but also the support it will receive from the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the day of the vote. True, the issue of climate change from a scientific point of view does not fall within those issues that are fully consensual about the real range of man's role in climate change. However, regardless of the difference, today we are not in a position to talk about it, but what, in fact, fascinates me about this law is the ability and willingness of the state and the competent ministry to effectively, in good time, before the rest and independently of others, actually access the improvement of our own responsibility, primarily legislatively, and after that, hopefully, operationally and executively, and thus, in fact, not only do we meet one of the international obligations, I am in favour of all international obligations being fulfilled, but I am not in favour of imposing myself on us. I'm not into it, although we're not in a position to choose whether to impose ourselves on us, but the only way to not actually be in the position of bad students who are forced by international obligations is to be faster in their realisation and not just because they're forced on us or to avoid being imposed on us, but to be faster and more efficient, which shows that we can, here, through this law and through some other activity, actually with the belief that we need to do it for us. So, the issue of environmental regulation is on a specific UN agenda, it is on a specific agenda of the EU and at a certain point, given our commitment to European integration, it comes as an obligation, but before that and what should be our definition is that we show our ability, our capacity, our orientation, our consciousness individual, collective and, ultimately, state-based, to confirm to our own activities that the issue of cleanness, the question of health, the question of the environment, is not a question of the quality of our own task, but what should be, above all, an integral part of our consciousness and our culture. True, legislation is a framework in which a culture is formed or promoted, and that is why we will give the maximum to make this law as high as possible, but we must work on it more intensively and not only from the National Assembly and not only from the position of the Government, but also from the position of all factors of influence, above all media, and above all – education, because consciousness is formed, truth, and before education in education, truth, first of all in the family, and therefore there must be a broad front. There must be a definition that what are real values for adults should not be imposed. For adults, smart people and normal people, it shouldn't be imposed. Otherwise, only underage persons, only incomplete persons, only persons with certain shortcomings need to be imposed. Most people should be the ones who, through their own consciousness, will build a certain attitude. That's why I look forward to this efficiency and this determination, but we need to further work on that consciousness that I'm talking about and we can't stand on top of the law. We must show the ability to enforce these laws. Even without this law, however, we have had a solid regulation on environmental protection so far, but we have to get down to the bottom. We have to go to the periphery. We cannot allow there in some peripheral municipality or city of this country, because they are 300 kilometers away, to allow someone who is a tycoon, who is in contact with certain local structures of government, politics, inspections or who, that they can install beside the university a particular production structure, a factory, which smokes so much, which so pollutes the environment, the environment. I don't know how far he can throw into the sky, towards the ozone envelope, but I know what the students are telling us. I know that the cars that stay in that university's backyard the next day need to wipe out his glass with some rag to see through it. So that's something that has to be our first task, and that's something where the power of both this law and other legal norms has to be shown right now. It's something that can't be delayed, because we need to have a grip between what's international, which is global, because the country has to be part of the international community. Through the closer and further past, we've seen how difficult it is when you're on the opposite side, when everyone's against you. Sometimes you have to catch that step, even if it's a step up with some of our attitudes, the truth, not principles. For principles I'm not about to make compromises. The man's principles make him a man. The moment you give up your principles, and for me, principles are not caprices, not what I decided at that point was principle. For me, principles are what are set out by God, confirmed through the entire human history of ethical, spiritual, and human values. There are no compromises on such principles, but certain views that are particularly formulated must sometimes be sewn up or inserted into, let me say, the system of the international community. This law, among other things, is one of those. But the real effects are what's important to us every day. What concerns the health of our air that we breathe, the health of our environment, how we treat garbage, what about our rivers. And yet, logically, energy is always the strongest energy where it is produced. It is logical that the capital of every country, including our country, is the centre of all energy in the country. And it's logical that energy spreads outside the capital cyclically, but you know, the earth is like a body, like a human body. You can't say -- well, you know, this finger, my toe is far from the heart, away from the brain, there's some problem with it, something's blue, it's black, I don't care what I care, it's one finger, one nail. Well, that's not the way it is. So whoever treats his periphery like that will get gangrene on that finger, but that gangrene will never stop. So she'll slowly spread towards her foot, so God forbid. Therefore, those who are responsible differ from those who are irresponsible. The responsible take care of every fingernail, every part of the body, no matter how close that part of the body was to the heart or brain, more specifically central, metropolis, or capital city. So that's the kind of relationship we need. We show therefore certain abilities, mostly through infrastructure projects, investments that we have talked about and which are commendable, but also in these fields it must be shown. Of course, we heard last week when my colleague Samir Tandir spoke and thanked the minister about solving a really difficult issue. I remember, and I was trying in the past term to act here with certain structures of government so that this wild dump at Prepolje, which not only was an ecological disaster, but there was one mockery on an important roadway, so north-South towards the sea, which really made a very ugly impression on the municipality of Prepolje, but also on the whole country. Unfortunately, we have something similar to Priboj, something similar near Sjenica. We've got something else, a subject that's old, but it's also going to wait for the Ministry and hopefully we'll work together on it. The question of the naked hill dump. It's supposed to have been done by standards some 25 years ago, but no one can explain how and who decided to build the dump at an altitude of 1,100 meters. So I don't know if there's any other example in this country that just found the almost highest point in that space between New Pazar and Tutin and that huge money was invested. This is really about large concrete structures. But what no one can explain, which was a smart idea to simply pick a point so high above sea level, and it's not a high-rise, it's a mountain, a hill, so where we have slopes from all sides. Now, imagine all these poisons and all those harmful substances that come from rain and winter rain, actually flow, and then all those gases, etc., because often they happen to dump and burn, etc. So these are the burning topics that we bring from the experience of our own environment. We look forward to showing this will, and besides will, efficiency, especially as it has been said many times that this dump next to Prepolje is indecisive, but it has proved to be decisive when we have responsible people and the government's determination and the common position on this issue. That's great, and that's an indication that we can and should actually continue to solve those other topics. Definitely, the question of the environment is, above all, important for people's health. We see when there's a health crisis, how much other things become less important. Here, you see now how some of the things that we were beaten up a year and a half ago, how now they become irrelevant, how a man so quickly turns to saving his head, his children, his family, as some things in finesse, in shades that mattered to us, are not so important to us, but simply that danger becomes very important to us, yes, in those certain moments. However, the issue of the environment, the issue of cleanliness of the environment, the issue of messy dumps, the issue of waste disposal, etc., is a health issue, but it is a deep cultural issue. So it is man to whom God has given reason, God has given him the ability to know and thus gave him a vertical on earth and has given him responsibility. However, simplified to observe, the animal should be at a lower level than man in relation to the relationship with nature. But when you look at an animal that has no reason, has no knowledge, has no culture, has nothing to do with man. When we look at an animal, we can conclude that it is much better than we are in nature. You won't find that the animal produces harmful substances. You won't find the animal producing plastic bags, making wild dumps. So whatever herds of animals, wherever they live, you won't find them doing the damage that a man does. That's a very serious question. Wait, so are we going to learn from animal relations with nature? Well, it looks like we have to study. Why an animal doesn't have a problem with nature. It's not a problem because it works instinctively and it doesn't abuse the knowledge it doesn't have and can't abuse it, to harm its nature, out of grampity, out of the greed that a man most often does. Even though it's not a subject, it's not the only advantage of an animal. The animal also has advantages in the matter of nutritionism. They don't have any nutritionists, they don't have TV shows every day how to lose weight, how to feed healthy, and you see, especially wild animals where a man doesn't get involved too much, don't have a problem with obesity, not with the line, everything works for them. So, a man can learn a little from nature, learn from living beings that are considered lower than humans, but are better equipped. Therefore, the lesson of nature is natural. So not artificial, not toxic, not plastic, not harmful. That's what a man should actually reduce to himself, to align himself with nature, to realize that nature was given to him, that he was not given to experience, that he wasn't allowed to be selfishly abused and hurt her, because by harming nature, we're actually hurting ourselves. Of course, in the context of this subject, we must also take care of the forests. I hope we can talk about it to someone else. But unfortunately, over the past years, especially in the Sandzak area, we've noticed a mass, non-selective and very often corrupt cutting through the forest. This is where we have to devote ourselves more strongly, because the disappearance of the forest actually endangers the quality of air, the quality of air. And that's something that must also be on our responsibility agenda. Anyway, congratulations to the ministry, congratulations to the government on the quality text. It is an opportunity to pass through amendments and through these discussions on quality, but definitely after the adoption of the implementing act, the act of realisation, the accent on the elimination of all those who abuse certain cracks in the system to satisfy their own personal interests and needs, and very often to the harm of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3985	Thanks, buddy. Before we move on to the next reported, one announcement of today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has an authorised representative of the SDPS, National MP Jasmina Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3986	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. Dear Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't think there are any or very few of those who don't see that the last few decades of the Earth's planet face ever more pronounced climate change. They are not only a plague of nature, and the impact of man on climate change is evident, or human negligence that contributes to their acceleration, so there is a great responsibility on us. This is why two basic guidelines - reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming and adaptation. adapting to climate change that is our reality. The result of climate change is no longer an abstract phenomenon that is spoken of when other topics run out, they are tangible and can be seen with a naked eye and we witness almost daily and the consequences of them and they live and there is no country in the world that is spared. That the climate on the planet Earth has changed compared to what it looked like in the mid-20th century, shows us the flash floods that happened to Serbia in 2014, droughts that decimate the crop of agricultural cultures. We have a much lighter winter than just a few decades ago, a warmer summer with much more heat waves, then a more frequent and extreme amount of rainfall in some parts of the world in which the rains were not a characteristic phenomenon, droughts in the Middle East the most difficult in the last 1,000 years, snow in Spain and weather during this winter that hasn't been recorded since the 1970s. The reason for climate change is to increase the concentration of greenhouse gases, in the first place carbon dioxide, and because of the use of fossil fuels as primary sources of energy. Climate change directly reflects people's lives, people's health, their safety, their economic progress, and if you want to invest. Perhaps even a greater threat to mankind's terrorism. They affect the quality of the air, even many of our cities are very often at the top of a list of pollution, water quality, we are approaching the moment when the need for water will exceed the supply, after which the fight for health begins drinking water. Because of the growing droughts, climate change threatens agriculture, floods, storms, fires destroy infrastructure. If climate change didn't stop, it also showed us in 2020, when the pandemics of the coronal virus made the whole world stop, only climate change happened at an unaltered rate in the way scientists have warned us for years. We remember the terrible forest fires in Australia when over 10 million acres of forest burned down, thousands of buildings destroyed, and more than half a billion animals died. In addition to Australia, the fires struck Siberia, then the Amazon, the western coast of the United States, then the catastrophic floods in Vietnam, the devastating tropical storms in Central and North America, as a result of the warming of our planet, which scientists have been warning for years. It remains to be seen whether the hottest year of 2020 will ever be measured, but what certainly marked it is record-high temperatures measured in the Arctic. Climate change at global level is expected to be increasingly significant and adaptation to climate conditions is expected. the adaptation is possible only in the event of reaching the main objective of the Paris Agreement, i.e. the limit of medium global temperature growth to two degrees Celsius by the end of the 21st century with a tendency to reach 1.5 degrees already over the next 10 years. This indicates that it is necessary for all countries to unite in the fight against climate change and to contribute to their slowdown by their actions. After all, this was committed five years ago by all the states of the Paris Agreement's signatories. The governments of the signatories countries will have to come up with clear targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the next World Climate Summit. The United Nations warns that it is necessary for all countries to make additional efforts to reduce global carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 by 45% compared to 2010. Serbia has made a promise that it is ready to improve the results more than three times by 2030 so that, with additional support, it can improve even more than five times. In addition to improving energy efficiency and using a larger share of renewable energy sources in electricity production, heating of households and transport. We need to consider the fact that coal is our primary energy and that 70% of our electricity is produced in thermal power plants. So we need to gradually move on to renewable energy sources, such as the sun, wind, even hydro energy, making sure we don't destroy the plant and animal world, because then we didn't get anywhere. The fundamentals of the fight against climate change are the laws that regulate this area, as well as their consistent implementation. These days, when Serbia adopts its Climate Change Act, the French government has presented to citizens a proposal for climate legislation that should introduce ecology into all areas of public life, schools, public services, justice, urbanism, traffic. The law aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. As well as a large number of countries that align their way of development with reducing the impact on climate change, Serbia will set up a system for reducing emissions of harmful gases, as well as a programme for adapting to changed climate conditions. The law also implies preparing a domestic economy that will have to be adapted very quickly to a new type of emission limit for harmful gas to be competitive on the international market. What's important is that all sectors are adapting and you, Minister, have explained here how this will work. From the EU candidate position, but also because of a large share of exports to EU countries, Serbia must take care that the EU's objective is to achieve climate neutrality at the latest in 2050. This is important for us because the EU is preparing measures to limit absolute emissions through imports from other countries, announcing a tax or CO2 tax by 2023 on imports of steel, cement, chemicals and artificial fertilisers based on coal. The bill stipulates that large plants will have to be allowed to release CO2 into the atmosphere. Without these permits, they will not be able to start work, and the issue of permits is subject to existing facilities. It should be borne in mind that this law will not solve all the problems that bring climate change, and it is unrealistic to expect. Law-making is just the beginning of a fight to reduce the negative impacts that cause climate change. Our society and economy must adapt to a new reality, i.e. to adapt to changing climate conditions. For example, when it comes to rainfall, we need to look at projections for the future that point to an ever-increasing occurrence of heavy rainfall. increasing their intensity as a result of global warming. Therefore, it is not enough to restore dams made by some standards 50 years ago, but we must also take into account new data and projections and therefore plan and build flood defense systems. Minister, I don't know if you're familiar with this, but I have another problem here, and that's an uncontrollable cutting of the forest. deforestation without permission and without any order or plan. This is what happens to us both in Vojvodina and in Shumadia and in all parts of the country. This tree mostly ends up being a warm-up in individual sheds that are in line with the largest air pollutants. Science says that forests are being restored by screening, and I support it, but prodding is not a devastation behind which they remain naked as an ideal ground for streams that can, in short, lead to the spilling of riverbeds and thus endanger entire settlements and cities. One of the ways in which these consequences are mitigated are more severe punishments and controls, as well as shaming. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that it is very important that, after the adoption of the law, we immediately start to create national and local adaptation plans for climate change, because the forecasts are that floods, slides, droughts, fires, extreme weather disasters that local communities in Serbia face over the past decade will become even more intense in the years to come. The adaptation measures to climate change are essential because they preserve human lives, private property and public infrastructure. These measures would reduce the cost of recovery and allow smart planning in the economy and agriculture in line with the UN's sustainable development objectives, which in the future will affect both competition between local communities in attracting foreign investment and the countries themselves and have a positive impact not only on the environment, but also on reducing poverty and inequality. Our responsibility is to prepare ourselves for new events by adopting regulatory policies that will allow us to act more quickly and more easily both in the direction of emission reductions and in the direction of adaptation to climate change. That's why we're going to need more professional personnel, more field inspectors, and we need to pay special attention to capacity building, both at national and local level. In view of the above, not only is the adoption of the Climate Change Act important, but it is necessary to adopt all sublaws and strategic acts provided for in this law within the deadline provided for. The Green Parliamentary Group, which makes up a large number of lawmakers interested in environmental and environmental issues, will monitor further processes to produce and adopt all sublegal acts that follow this law and give full support to Serbia's transformation into a low-carbon environmental society. We have also submitted amendments that, we believe, could improve some parts of the law and we will discuss them in particular. The SDPS parliamentary group will strongly support this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3987	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3988	We are today discussing the Law on Climate Change, a law that creates a legal framework for the creation of a system that will lead to the reduction of gas emissions with the effect of the "glass garden" that will lead to the creation of planning and strategic documents that will treat this topic and the topic of adaptation to climate change, a law which, in the end, respects the international obligations that Serbia has made by ratifying the Paris Agreement, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and Kyoto Protocols. We're talking about a law that will change the philosophy of our business in the future, of our country, of a law that opens up a wide space for development, for the strong development of so-called. "Green Business." Since one of the strategic political principles that we of JS are running, which is to create a strong foundation for the good and quality future of our generations, this good and quality future will not exist, unless we take care of it and what kind of environment and quality of the environment we will leave to these future generations. Since this particular topic is being treated by this law, we will support this law in the voting day. Since the existence of planet Earth, climate change has existed, so there have been times of very warm climate, say Mesozoics trias jura chalk there have also been periods of cold climate so-called. "ice age" as it was in Pleistocene, but all these climate changes were primarily caused by astronomical and natural factors and these climate change were very long, measured by millions, tens and hundreds of millions of years, and these changes were certainly not visible from the perspective of a human life, a human century. However, we older people who are a little over the age of today often want to compare and make differences and see the differences between climates as we were when we were young and today's climate, so we often say, "In our time, during our childhood, winters were with much more snow, they were much colder." Today winters are much lighter, with much less snow. Today there are much more frequent floods, much longer and more frequent periods of drought, and these comparisons actually tell us that we have climate change present today that can be seen for the human century. These changes are certainly not caused by natural processes and astronomical factors, but are solely caused by human activity. It has been this human activity for the last 140 years since the First Industrial Revolution, since the beginning of the mass application of the James Wat steam machine in industry, in traffic and further industrial and traffic development, that the Earth's temperature has increased in the last 140 years by a degree of Celsius. This increase is in certain parts of the country and higher, in the second lower, but if nothing changes and if the planet continues, or the emissions of gases with the effect of the "glass garden" continued at this rate, without restrictive policies in that sense, the forecasts are to welcome the end of this century with a temperature that would be four degrees higher than the temperature in the Pre-Industrian era. It's average, again I say some parts of the planet would be more heated, another less. What would be the result of this process is certainly, among other things, the melting of ice in polar areas and ice on glaciers, high in the mountains. In the polar areas of ice melting, for example in Greenland, could result from the inflows of a large amount of sweet and cold water to stop hot Golf electricity, which would lead to major disturbances in the Atlantic, in the European part of the Atlantic, and we know that air masses across Europe come from there and affect the climate of all Europe. Of course, melting glaciers and glaciers would lead to rising sea levels. The fourth Report and the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says there is also an optimistic and pessimistic forecast, and this optimistic one says that by the end of the century the temperature on the planet will rise by 1.8 degrees Celsius, i.e. from 1.1 to 2.9% of Celsius, and it pessimistically says that it will be four degrees, that it will range from 2.4 to 6.4 degrees depending on the individual parts of the planet. What is very important to say is that the emissions of gases with the effect of the "glass garden", i.e. carbon dioxide emissions, which are the most important of these gases over the last 250 years, have increased by 35%. Only in the period from 10 years, from 1995 to 2005 has increased by almost 7% and this is the unrecorded rise in carbon dioxide levels ever. This naturally united the planet and hence these strategic documents that we discussed both the UN Framework Convention and Kyoto Protocols, the Paris Agreement, that united the whole world in the fight to reduce the emissions of gases with the effect of the "glass garden". Where's Serbia? The forecasts say Serbia will continuously in the coming years, that Serbia will continuously increase its temperature by 0.04 degrees Celsius annually, i.e. at the end of the century there will be an increase of nearly four degrees Celsius. This increase would be quite uniform throughout Serbia, perhaps slightly more in Podunavlje and eastern Serbia, and less in the rest. However, these climate change would lead to great changes. The forecasts, of course, are for scientific forecasts to lead to major rainfall disturbances, in order to say Vojvodina, by some forecasts, to have a slightly higher amount of rainfall, but to reduce rainfall in the rest of Serbia, especially in southwestern Serbia as much as 10% to 15%. What we're talking about, of course, has implications for both people and the natural system, and that's why this law and we're talking today, not only about the tendency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also about adaptation to climate change. Adaptation to climate change is a kind of reduction in the sensitivity of the natural community and of the human community to climate change. What is important is to say that we are witnesses of frequent weather problems due to these climate change caused by human factors, including in Serbia and you yourself told the minister that from 2000 to today Serbia has suffered from droughts, but also from floods, it is worth about seven billion dollars. It is very important that we today have before us to discuss a law that will try to contribute to this global phenomenon. In fact, you know about that ecological exchange -- it works locally, it thinks globally. Each country individually will add up one positive result. Of course, Serbia is not even the biggest cause of climate change, that there are countries that have much more impact on it, but simply everyone can make a contribution and we will have a situation to improve air quality, reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Of course, if the whole world were able to contain at this point, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we would not see any improvement at the moment, because earlier emissions of these gases would still affect continuing climate change. But, of course, once this process of restoring the situation, that is, the situation in nature in its original state must begin. The sooner the better. This law also said, as I said, it creates a legal framework for the construction of a greenhouse gas emission reduction system. This law also defines construction, given that it takes time and that this is all a process and when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also when it comes to adaptation to climate change. It is very important that this law also defines the planning documents that will lead to the desired objectives, to define a strategy that we will work on to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also includes an action plan and a climate adjustment programme, etc. This law also foresees and this is very important, predicting that all other sectoral policies must be in line with this objective that declares this law, which is to reduce gases with the greenhouse effect. I think that all sectoral policies in the coming period will have to make their own legal solutions, but also their own planning acts, so to speak, that would treat this matter. This law also provides monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, which is good and will be done by the Environment Protection Agency and we will, of course, support it as an activity. The law, of course, also includes one overall, total struggle to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This law, once again I said, treats a series of activities that will be implemented to improve the quality of the environment, to improve the quality of life, not today's, but future generations, and because this law is such that it treats matter that will affect the future of our children, generations, etc. We will support this law in the voting day, as a representative group of JS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3989	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3990	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that we share the view that the proposal for a law on climate change is important. For SVM, one of the most important legal proposals, not only because it regulates reduced gas emissions mechanisms with the greenhouse effect and not just because it concerns the quality of life of our generation, but because it is the law we leave to future generations a healthy environment, clean air, healthy land and clean water streams. It is a law that will affect the health of the population, the long lifetime of our citizens and protect future generations from the negative consequences of climate change. The bill on climate change is a matter of responsibility of our generation to the generation of our children, and therefore the SVM parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal. The proposal for a climate change law is a roof law setting up a legal framework for the establishment of a system of monitoring, reporting and verification of data. For the adoption of planning documents in the area of climate change, as well as adequate measures and policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as adapt to changing climate conditions, which is one of the EU's five strategic objectives and basic green and circular economies. Since the key mechanism for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the system of trade in emission units, it is necessary to improve the reliability and accessibility of gas emissions data with a greenhouse effect and to strengthen public communication and participation in the creation of sustainable climate policy. Why is that important accurate data? I'll set an example. Because the second report by the Republic of Serbia according to the 2017 UN Framework Convention shows an inventory of greenhouse gases, stating that it is only estimates due to lack of data. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law is a commitment that we have made not only in the process of European integration through the negotiating Chapter 27 – the environment and climate change and as a member of the Energy Community, but also an international commitment that we have made through the accession of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 2015 Paris Agreement. What importance the EU attaches to this area is also seen in the new methodology of negotiations as a special cluster, the Fourth, under the name "Green Agenda and Infrastructure". Since the process of preparing this law lasted several years, the European Commission's report of 6 October 2020 reiterated the recommendation on the need to adopt a comprehensive climate change strategy and the Climate Change Act that would be in line with the EU climate and energy policy frameworks by 2030. The data suggests that Serbia contributes globally to greenhouse gas emissions by 0.18%. However, despite the fact that there is an increase in emissions in certain sectors, for example Energy and agriculture, by the time this bill was laid down, the government had no legal basis to prescribe a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by sectors. The bill aims to reduce Serbia's greenhouse gas emissions by at least 10% compared to 1990 levels by 2030. By passing laws in the framework of a revision of the nationally established contributions, Serbia will work to adapt key sectors, expected climate change, primarily in agriculture, water management, forests, as well as natural resources and protection of the health of the population, in areas where the most visible adverse impacts of climate change are seen. Dear fellow Members of the People, I point out the area of agriculture, water management and forests, as research conducted in Vojvodina in 2040 makes it possible to expect an increase in the average annual temperature of 1 to 1.5 Celsius compared to the reference period from 1985 to 2005. The transition to low carbon economy is caused by the process because large investments in renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, sustainable forest management are needed. The estimates will suggest that Serbia will need between 12 billion and 15 billion euros to bring environmental protection into line with EU standards. These are huge amounts. I would like to remind you that the total amount of material damage caused by extreme climate and weather conditions in Serbia amounted to more than 5 billion euros between 2000 and 2015. The World Health Organization's report on the impact of air pollution on Serbia's population, estimated that 6,592 people died in 2016 and that health costs related to air pollution are around 33% of our GDP. It raises the question of how, specifically, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions affects climate change and pollution of land, water and air. Why is it important to limit the emissions of these gases in thermal power plants, cement plants, foundries, heat, ceramic factories, paper production, sugars, refineries, glassware and, of course, in the aviation activities and the production of passenger cars? Because if the level of carbon dioxide, methane or azotsuboxide emissions from thermal power plants, heat, foundries, sugar factories, refineries, ceramic or brewery production remains at today's level, a drop in corn yield of up to 6% may be expected by 2030. The second report by the Republic of Serbia under the 2017 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change also discusses changes in soy yield, ranging from 37% to 47% for the period 2001 to 2030. I quote corn and soy in light of last week's adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the long-term effects of extreme weather conditions can reduce the fertility of the land and disrupt its functions significantly. Erosion has been estimated to affect approximately 80% of Serbia's total agricultural land. In Vojvodina, where 75% of the surface is covered with two types of land, Chernozem and a risky black woman, we face two problems. One is erosion, and the other is the decline of organic matter, hummus. Certainly the introduction of a system of protective belts especially in areas with baskets is one of the key measures. The union of the Duke Hungarians is constantly reminded of the problem of polluting the Vernai word. Without windscreens, the wind carries dust from fields containing nitrogen and phosphorus and it is stored in the river. Therefore, in a coalition agreement with the SNS, we have indicated that it is important to free the eight-metre belt around Krinaya and build an amphitheater from the trees in that space, and to stop the spread of harmful substances from the fields. It is also important to control the direct polluting words of Krinaya. Most of them are in Backo Topoli. In this regard, I also asked you a parliamentary question at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but the answer states that some companies that are the largest polluters still have time to build their purifiers. Unfortunately for citizens who suffer the unpleasant smell and for a river that is completely destroyed, this response means nothing. I invite you, dear Minister, to visit our municipality, the Municipality of Backo Topol, and you can help us solve this great problem. In order for the Duke's land to be cured, it takes up to 16% of the territory to be forested. Today, about 6% has been noised, with it being, for example, noise in some local self-governments, e.g. in Srbobran, and in Temerino, beneath a spring. Experts say a layer of 2.5 cm or a ton of black per ha disappears from the Duke's soil annually. Natural processes restore land, but much slower. It takes 20 years to restore what the wind takes for a year. At such a pace, 40% of the now fertile duchy land will be turned into dessert in three decades. We are ahead of us, we can freely say revolutionary lifestyle changes because in the last 100 years, the average annual temperature has increased by 1 degree, as much as it has increased over the history of the country by two thousand and five hundred years. So there are also changes in the way we process land and produce food, because food production is the third largest source of greenhouse gases and the total emissions are 19%. Dear fellow MPs, the EU's climate change adaptation strategy of 2013 suggests, among other things, the importance of coordinated activities at national and local level. For the SVM parliamentary group, the bill is also important because it puts emphasis on communication and co-operation between the central and local levels of government, because it is our view that the lack of horizontal and vertical communication in the long term leads to a deterioration of the administrative capacities of local self-government and the centralisation of energy and climate policy. The SVM parliamentary group particularly underlines the importance of including local self-government authorities, such as Subotica, Bačka Topola, Kanjiža, Senta, Kula, Vrbas, Vienna in the reporting and monitoring system. When it comes to facilities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the development of analyses assessing the effects of emission reductions in the specific local community, the analysis of floods, extreme temperatures, droughts, the analysis of the consequences, as well as the preparation of a proposal for adaptation measures. The bill stresses what the SVM has been up to for decades, that climate change problems need to be addressed and the establishment of agricultural, research and advisory services and the strengthening of their capacities. In view of the importance of advisory services, the regulation laying down a medium-term programme for the development of advisory jobs in agriculture for the period from 2021 to 2025, which the government has just adopted on 4 March this year, stressing that the work of advisory services is being achieved among other things and supporting the reduction of the impact of climate change on agricultural production, as one of the specific objectives of medium-term development. Also, reducing the impact on climate change will contribute to the digitisation of the monitoring system and early warning system for agricultural needs. Simply put, there is no green transformation without digitization. I cite as an example, within a project supported by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Co-operation and Development, more than 18,000 farmers from Somboro, Vrbasa, Indjije, Bačka Topola and Subotica can follow through the meteoric cell announcement of disasters, cold, rain, high temperatures, wind-enhancing, disease and insects. There is no doubt that this project is important, but it will only get its full sense when the work on the project of automation of the anti-building system for the Baš and Samos radar centres is completed. What do we do? I would once again like to confirm that the SVM parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. However, we are aware that it is not enough just to support the law and to prevent climate change, we need to take a proactive stance and at the same time create green and intersectoral networks, connect green areas and create ecological networks, but also work on intersectoral cooperation in the field of nature protection, forestry, water industry, agriculture, spatial planning. One thing that guarantees success, with all due respect for proactive attitude and cross-sectoral integration, is strengthening horizontal and vertical communication from the republican across the province to the level of all units of local self-government. The only thing guaranteeing success is decentralisation of climate policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3991	I thank my colleague. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Ljubinko Rakonjac, an authorised representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3992	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Vujovic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am an authorised representative of the SPS, and I belong to the political party Green Serbia on the SPS list and this is the trust that the SPS has shown me to speak of this law at today's session as an authorised representative. I'd have started with one piece of information if I'd seen the other day that Mrs. Minister was in Koseric. There was talk of replacing the boiler from the mule to the gas. I do imitate these initiatives and the actions of the minister, that he is always on the spot, where there are problems and where these problems should be solved. The damages and risks caused by climate change by Serbia's natural and economic development are unequivocally obvious. It is alarming that risks and threats in the future can endanger infrastructure, agricultural production, clean water access and, most importantly, may endanger the public health of our citizens and citizens. Due to this concern, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and I as an MP for Green Serbia, the only ecological party in the National Assembly, I wish there were more, but that's not the case, we decided to support the proposal for climate change laws in the voting day. Climate change is happening globally. Now no one can question that. The last decade has been the hottest one in 150 years. In Serbia, an increase in extreme weather opportunities and their devastating effects has been observed. After 2000, 10 warmest years have been recorded since meteorological measurements began in Serbia. The main features of these changes are extremes, so the number of days with strong and abundant rainfalls is higher, and they are also increasing over a long period without rainfall. Serbia suffered damage due to climate change and extreme weather conditions estimated at a minimum of 6.8 billion euros from around 2000 to 2020. In 2014 alone, floods caused huge damage, and it is estimated to take 1.35 billion euros to compensate for these damages. The special story we very regret is the destroyed homes and people's lives in Obrenovac, Valjevo, Ub, Sremski Mitrovica, Šid, Koceljevi and other cities, which we particularly regret. Since 2012, Green in the National Assembly has been fighting for cleaner and healthier Serbia, and we are now particularly encouraged in this struggle for ecological values by passing this law. The Socialist Party of Serbia and Serbia's Green Serbia parliamentary group stressed that the latest data show an average temperature rise of 0.36 degrees per decade, starting from 1961 to 2017, while the average drop of 10% at the same time. According to some climate scenarios, a rise in temperature by 2010 between 2 and 4.3 degrees is projected. This is indeed a huge increase in the temperature that is predicted, which can bring inexplicable negative effects on biodiversity, on the state of the environment, on the state of the plant and animal ecosystems. Preventing dangerous climate change is the key priority of this bill and our parliamentary group is convinced that after the adoption of this law we will all work hard together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and that we will find ways to encourage and business to do the same in respect of the economy of the EU and the companies that operate there, respecting the principles of green and circular economies. In this part of the exhibition, I looked back on some of the past times, and I feel free to say that Serbia has worked hard in the area of shaming. As you know, the forests accumulate carbon dioxide and thus reduce the effects of the glass garden. Since the 1960s, large-scale noises have been made to protect against floods and erosions, as well as to accumulate greenhouse gases. Forest and water organizations at the time have done a number of anti-erosive deforestations in almost all parts. This is particularly important, once again to point out, if 1,000 kilograms of wood has 500 kilograms of carbon, how much is the fact that the forest reduces these negative effects of pollution? I'm going to say something that I've been researching in my practice and I've been involved in a part of these events, that the highlight of these concerns has been tossing on large surfaces, youth work actions, on the Cave, the Ibar ravine, the Vlasini, where numerous nakeds have been turned into real forests. The period from 1974, from 1978 to 1988, when youth action was organised at the Cave High, Vlassini and Ibra, is considered one of the best periods in Serbia's forestry, where large areas and degrees of Serbia's noises have increased from 19% to 30%. After all, I'm a man who was born at the cave high, in Stavlje, and as a boy, I participated in a youthful work. I'm proud of the fact that I've contributed to the humbling and the increasing degree of noise, at least for a hectare. With respect, we now remember this period and it is known with the foresters that the support of such grandiose works was the greatest contribution given, I must mention the name, despite all the participants of the others in those actions, Dusan Škrebić, who was then, I think, president of the Executive Council. I think Comrade Scrabble is in good health. I welcome him. Then and these generations won't forget him. It's 31% forest Serbia now, and it's optimally 41%. So we need to work on increasing the degree of noise, and there is space to protect against erosion, wind protection belts, woodwork, and especially in Vojvodina where the degree of noise is low. Projects for all past plantings for plantings that were done during the summer period, plantings that were made really during the summer period before extremely high temperatures, but that the success of the shale was over 80% astounding, was worked by the Institute of Forestry and also produced fruit material. So now I would like to welcome the programme of the Minister and the Ministry, to allocate funds to local self-governments for deforestation of unprocessed surfaces and to give the idea that this is done with mandatory project documentation, because then the success of shaming is greater and more guaranteed. Also, I must say that the current and past efforts of President Vukic, the Government, the President of the Dacic Assembly, give hope to the inhabitants of the high mountain areas, the Caver-sension highlands and other Serbian edges for a better life, and it is particularly important to build a highway from Požega to Bolar, which goes through Golia, Duga Poljana and Brnjica, to Montenegro. It is a hope for the development of this region and for the return of all those who have gone into the white world. Dear Minister, you have a great responsibility and a huge burden, because environmental protection is not only one sector, it is made up of all sectors and makes it the whole life of our society. Therefore, each and every little shift in this part is a major contribution to improving the state of the environment. In addition to the obligations that other ministries and institutions need to fulfil, it is also necessary to raise the awareness of all citizens of Serbia, because we cannot forget that what we need to do now that many other European countries have done a hundred and many years ago. I'm just going to say one plastic example of life. What do villages look like in some other countries? They're a tight, row house, then a sidewalk, then a canal, then a road. These are the civilization achievements of those countries that we still need to achieve. This is a long-term process and requires huge resources, but you are not waiting, but with these potentials, as well as with government support, you solve problems, and that is why we see you very often in the field where you solve problems in the past. The government of the Republic of Serbia and your ministry are not waiting suddenly for huge money to come from somewhere, but you are doing everything in your power in the field. That's why I'd say to a people, not waiting for something just to fall out of the sky, we have to rely on ourselves and our beaks. That's why it's good for the Ministry's representatives to see more in the field, like the other day in Koserić, where problems are and where problems should be solved. Dear Members of Parliament and MPs, I would like to point out in particular one moment, in addition to the ideal solution to the issue of emissions of harmful gases in Serbia. Climate change is a global problem, at least regionally, which is why it is an important initiative of our Mini Schengen leadership, because connecting and co-operation between countries in the region and joint action in solving the problem, and the problems of greenhouse gas emissions are a guarantee that what we do will not be included with major emissions in the region. That's why Mini Shengen is a big deal. The area of climate change is a huge area in the negotiating process for Chapter 27 – the environment and climate change. We expect around nine legal acts to be considered in the context of Serbia's climate change negotiations process regarding Chapter 27. As I have already mentioned Chapter 27, I must express my special satisfaction that the state of Serbia has sent a negotiating position to Brussels and has shown that it is ready to open ecological negotiations with the European Union. In fact, Chapter 27 was set up in January, so to speak prosely, in Brussels, and this creates conditions for opening another very important chapter in this year in the context of the accession process of the European Union and, unfortunately, it is now no longer up to us, but to officials in Brussels. I particularly point out, on behalf of the SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary group, that we have been very active and engaged in writing and creating this chapter as part of the government of the Republic of Serbia and that we have affected the quality of this document and that it is at a better level. Our experts and members were key to the part of the team that built the negotiating position. The negotiating position is a very complex document involving 150 representatives from the 28 institutions and state bodies of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the text, the negotiating position contains a total of 14 contributions, i.e. 1,650 pages, I repeat, 1,650 pages of text, and explains the financial framework for activities in the coming period, in order for the Republic of Serbia to reach the European Union's standard in the field of environmental protection and enable its citizens to have a quality life, such as the citizens of the European Union. This law is designed to contain 11 chapters. I will not talk about it, the minister and the honourable representatives of the parliamentary groups in the assembly spoke of it. But he is a particularly interesting and important member of 43. The proposal for a law laying down a provision on historical emissions – the operator of the plant has an obligation to supply emission data and its historical levels of activity for the reference period from 1 January to 31 December 2005, from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 and from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017, in accordance with the provisions and directives of the European Union. The SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary groups support the ministry's view that the regulation of the provisions is in the general interest of the Republic of Serbia. This is a very important provision in negotiations with the European Union. This is of particular importance in order to ensure a healthy environment at the same time, with optimal economic and economic development. Green Serbia sees investment in environmental protection as not cost, but investment in the future, in green development, in the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, you should know that Serbia has reached an advanced level in implementing a regulation on substances that damage the ozone layer, greenhouse gases, and the aim of this law is to create a legal basis for establishing a reporting monitoring system. As you already know, Serbia ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on 12 March 2001 and the Paris Agreement on 25 July 2017. Under the Paris Agreement, Serbia planned to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 9.8% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The ultimate objective of this law in accordance with the Convention is to achieve a reduction in the level of emissions considered necessary from the point of view of science to avoid changes in climate at global level. So far, the government, as well as the resolution ministry, did not have the legal basis to prescribe the obligation to reduce emissions to sectors, a key prerequisite for achieving the identified target. In order to achieve the set emission reduction targets within the planned deadline, so by 2030, it is necessary to adopt laws and set up a system for monitoring, reporting and verification. On the other hand, unless this law was passed, and I have no doubt that it would be passed, the Climate Change Act, according to some budgets and the cost of such inaction and inaction between 2020 and 2050, would amount to 113 billion euros. Imagine Serbia a country that would lose more than 100 billion euros for that period, to reflect on our population, our youth. Surely our children and many other children, we citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia may not want to live on such a land. Absolutely, respected Minister Vujovic, the SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary club will support and vote in favour of the Climate Change Act in the voting day. Also make sure you have full support for efforts to build cleaner and greener Serbia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3993	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children”. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3994	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today of the Climate Change Act, a law that is probably one of the most important that we have adopted in the last period and certainly the law that is causing the public's greatest attention in the last few years. For this reason, I appeal to my esteemed fellow Members of the People to accept such a defined law. I will certainly do it in the voting day, along with my parliamentary group. We all remember very well the stories of older people crossing frozen rivers. Today, the situation in Serbia is absolutely incredible, from this point of view, because there has been an increase in average air temperature in both Serbia and globally. There is one study that says that the average air temperature in the Republic of Serbia increased from 0.5 to 1.5 degrees Celsius in the period 1998 to 2017, depending on what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia to observe. The anthropogenic impacts are certainly great, so this leads to a number of climate change, there is often a change in a certain amount of rainfall, there is a phenomenon of drought, floods, forest fires and all of this destroys forest ecosystems, destroys agricultural areas, and this generally affects economic growth and development in the Republic of Serbia, because, you will agree with me, the share of agriculture in the overall structure of gross domestic product is very high in Serbia. We are aware of the fact that all these climate change has a very big impact on people's everyday lives. For that very reason, as such, we must no longer neglect them. This is why the Law on Climate Change is before us today, so we are discussing it today in the tide, because its importance is extremely great. Since 2000, the share of six gases covered by this law, gases called GHG gases, which are actually greenhouse gases, has increased by 7.8% and the largest share of these gases actually comes from the energy field, about 80%, then from agriculture, from forestry and many other branches of the economy. The Climate Change Act should represent, in fact, a certain legal basis, to bring in planning documents, above all, to define certain measures, activities and policies to be implemented in order to reduce the share of GHG gases, actually gases that cause the effects of the glass garden in the atmosphere, and on the other hand to ensure monitoring and reporting. The Climate Change Act primarily has one final objective, which is to ensure that the conditions defined by the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change are met, and on the other hand, it should ensure that these legal assets are brought closer to the EU. I remind you, esteemed colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the basic strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia is to join the EU. We are certainly on our way to the EU with Chapter 27, which deals exclusively with environmental protection. Serbia is a signator of the Paris Agreement, which has pledged to reduce the share of GHG gases in the atmosphere by as much as 9.8% by 2030. Of course, Europe is the one who wants to be the first continent in the world to actually be climate neutral, so that from our point of view we need to secure that GHG gas level in the atmosphere, which from the point of view of the profession will be climaticly neutral, which will not lead to certain climate change. In order for this climate change law to be implemented, we need to adopt three planning documents, which are certainly a strategy for low-carbon development, which should define certain strategic directions of action, the Action Plan for implementation of the Strategy, as well as the Agenda for adaptation to changed climate conditions. All these planning documents need to be brought in in the next two years, so the law can have an effect. Why this law is so important, it best tells the fact that climate change is primarily caused by a number of elemental disasters. We are witnessing that almost every year floods and droughts and fires appear and that material damages from natural disasters are estimated at over five billion euros, if we look at the period from 2000 to 2017, and if we look at the period to today, the damage is estimated at around seven billion euros. By passing this law and reducing GHG emissions, we actually provide productivity acceleration, we also provide economic growth, by actually opening up so-called. "green jobs" and on the other hand we provide additional investor attraction, because all investors want to invest in those climates that take care of appropriate environmental standards. That way, as I said, economic growth is being accelerated and the standard of living of our citizens is being accelerated, which is actually the ultimate instance that we are seeking. I will certainly take the opportunity to commend Mrs. Minister Irena Vujovic, to thank her for being present today in front of the MPs along with my associates and to commend her for all those activities she has managed to realise in a very short period of time. It seems to me that only now have we reached that economic maturity, economic strength that we can deal more seriously with environmental problems. Of course, environmental problems have been around for decades and decades. It's nothing new. To solve these problems, huge investments are needed primarily, and on the other hand a longer period of time is needed. I will take the opportunity to inform the citizens what it is that the Ministry has done in the past period in the field of environmental protection. A contract was signed with the municipality of Trstenik to finance the second phase of the “Osanica” recovery. Also, what I would like to point out in particular is that in Mionica the first heat was opened that instead of coal and mules as dirty energy uses was mass as pure energy. What is certainly significant is that the Ministry takes care of both aero-contamination and, for this very reason, the use of so-called "supply". the eco-vehicle, i.e. the subsidisation of the purchase of the so-called so-called eco-vehicle. electrical or hybrid vehicles. In this way, the aero-contamination is drastically reduced. To encourage the use of these so-called so-called. The eco-vehicle, at the Belgrade gas station, is installed on the highway, or installed a charger for electric vehicles, in order to define that, instead of standard vehicles, they buy so-called vehicles. ecological vehicles. It is assumed that by 2050 all the vehicle standards we use today will be replaced by so-called. ecological vehicles. How much does the Ministry really care about aero-pollution best we can see based on three competitions that are called and worth as much as 400 million dinars. Of these 400 million, 200 million refer to the replacement of boiler rooms in certain local self-governments, a hundred million refer to the replacement of individual bars and 100 million refers to shaming. This is extremely important, because first of all, we raise the environmental awareness of people, and on the other hand we provide for the restoration of those eco-systems, forest eco systems that represent natural air purifiers. When we talk about protecting the environment, we can't leave out the gasification process in our country. Thanks to the good, responsible and effective policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, we have managed to obtain gas from our friends at far more affordable prices and remains a challenge to encourage households to join this built pipeline. For this reason, the price of an individual connection has been reduced by as much as 50%, from about 200,000 dinars to 100,000 dinars. It affected local self-governments to eliminate all unnecessary taxes, to ensure that citizens’ own pipeline connection was as cheap as possible and that, on the one hand, they provided cheaper energy, and on the other hand, to protect the environment. What is certainly significant is that I point out when I talk about aero pollution is the fact that most of the pollution comes from the field of energy. For this reason, in the future, we need to define ourselves more in terms of renewable energy sources. If it were really functional in practice, we can best see it based on one solar field located near Panchev and it is the largest solar field in Southeast Europe. Thanks to solar energy, or the energy of the sun, this sanitary hot water is provided for citizens, and on the other hand, it is also very important from the essence of the environment. The Ministry of Environment really does take a lot of care when we talk about water protection, so I'm going to commend Mrs. Minister for cleaning up the Potpec Lake, for which we have been criticised for a longer period of time. Of course, thanks to the rapid reactions, in a very short period of time, we managed to extract, as much as 10,000 cc's of municipal waste, you correct me if I'm wrong, and in this way we showed, we can really take care of the waters. The ministry also announced a competition for the construction of a wastewater processing plant, so that as many as 28 local self-governments received funds to build plants and sewerage networks. What is important to stress is that, as I mentioned earlier, the ministry has only just now gained strength, that Serbia has gained strength and power to deal more seriously with the problem of environmental protection. The moment the Serbian Progressive Party came to power, we found a country that was completely devastated, completely destroyed, completely destroyed, a country on which the government could not provide citizens with either the basic existential conditions, let alone provide them with a healthy environment. You remember all of those wild dumps that came all over the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you remember those unsettled parks, those unsettled banks of the river, and that told us that the government absolutely didn't take care of the environment. You then had the power to take care of only how to fill your pockets with suspicious privatisations, how to fill your bank accounts, and how to leave half a million people on the street so that their children couldn't afford a piece of bread. Here, today we're all facing a situation where some secret accounts appear, secret accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland and many other exotic destinations, so my question is as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and as someone interested in what's actually going on with this, whose money is on secret accounts in Mauritius? Is that money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and if it isn't, as they say, why is it hiding? Many economic experts, in recent days, say that when secret accounts appear, hiding from the citizens of a country, it is mostly money that stems from different malfeasances. We can see exactly how the growth of panic in the ranks of the former regime, the leader of the former regime, is approaching the moment of truth, that is how President Vukic announced that he would go public and tell all the information about where the secret accounts are, whose accounts are and how much funds are on them. We all know very well that when President Aleksandar Vukic says he's going to go public with some information that it's not empty stories and that he really has information about it. It is those who did not have the strength, had no will, or the ability to manage the economy in that period that we are respected today that as many as 90% of Serbian citizens do not live Vukic's decent life, as promised in the elections. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to remind you of your esteemed colleagues, MPs, that the people are the court on whether living a decent life brought about recently, just a few months ago in the elections, when Aleksandar Vukic received 60% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and when those same people, who respect us, did not get the strength to go to those elections, because they were afraid of the full debacle. I will remind you, esteemed citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia today is the first at the rate of economic growth across Europe, therefore, not in football, not in basketball, not in tennis, but in the rate of economic growth, and this has never happened, and in letters never. Unlike that period when the unemployment rate was even 25%, when half a million people remained on the streets, we reduced the unemployment rate to an incredible 7.3% and this is a record low level when we talk about the Republic of Serbia, therefore, it is at the level of Europe's most developed countries. We have brought in almost every city a new factory, hired people, and as an example of good practice, I will indeed quote the recently opened plant "Continental" in Novi Sad, where the average salaries are extremely high, as well as in the factory "Brose", as well as in many other factories, and thus we have encouraged young people, as many as 20 experts, young experts from abroad to return to Serbia and to apply their skills right here, their experiences and to contribute to a better standard of living for all our citizens. If it were really a policy that was applicable in practice, I could best see for myself when I visited a family head in Kniæ a few days ago, along with my esteemed colleagues, the MPs, where we met young people who had prepared money to go abroad and start their business abroad. Afterwards, they decided to stay in Serbia and develop their business on their family land. Today it's a family that lives very well and decently and it's this decent life that the Serbian Progressive Party is fighting for, which we can see in practice, and it's not just stories that are loose. Certainly, I must not leave out the fact that the epidemic war continues from the position of the economy, which is fifth by number of people vaccinated, and recently President Aleksandar Vucic said that a brand new factory will be built in Serbia to produce a Chinese, or "Sinofarm" vaccine, thanks to our friends from the UAE, and friends from China. So, in this factory, not only will certain components that we get from abroad be packed, but we will by our own strength, by our ability to produce certain components ourselves and I can freely say that by the end of this year we will have a vaccine, produced by a vaccine that, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be called - a Serbian vaccine. Hence, various attacks from the region, hence the protest note from Croatia, hence attacks from Montenegro, because they simply want lies to fight against the economic progress of the Republic of Serbia. We will return new highways, new railways, new investments and jobs, new friendships with many countries in the world, and we will outrun them in every possible field when we talk about economics. That's what hurts a lot. In 2014, we addressed our citizens with a slogan: "The future we believe in! "We truly believed that we could achieve a better and better future for our citizens, and today, it seems to me that this better future and we live. However, we have had the strength to keep working and to fight for the best conditions for our children, the best future for our children, because only what is best for Serbia is good enough. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3995	Thank you. Since there are no more registered representatives, or president of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of registered Members of Parliament. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3996	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry of Ecology, today is a very important law ahead of us, but at first I want to speak as a citizen of the municipality of Prepolje. I've talked here many times about the problems of the community I come from. I spoke last week on the tide. I would really like to take advantage of Minister Irena Vujovic's presence to thank her personally on behalf of all citizens and citizens of the municipality of Prepolje, on behalf of our children and all generations who will be standing in the municipality because the eternal problem of the non-sanitary dump "Stvanina" has been solved. When we voted here for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I honestly believed and believe that all those points of exposure can be fulfilled. However, what I was skeptical about at that point is the question of environmentalism, because if you have a problem that has not been resolved since 1950, 1960, it means it lasts for 50, 60 years, dating back to the last century, you realize that there is a certain doubt in the way and speed of how it will be realized. When someone manages to solve that problem in five, six months, they need to take their hat off. Indeed, this is something that we should all do and I call on other MPs who come from municipalities and Prepolje and Priboj and Nova Varosh and other Sanjak municipalities to look back at the solution of this problem today, to get away from the day policy, from the partying and to say, one huge generation thing has been done. The hat should be removed, congratulated on Minister Vujovic, her team, of course, the president of the state who supported, Prime Minister, who is indeed the leader of this team, and indeed the one great thing has been done for both citizens and citizens of Prepolje that will never be forgotten. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to point out that the Justice and Reconciliation Party Party will vote in favour of this law and give full support to all other processes and actions carried out by the Ministry and when it comes to "Stavine" and when it comes to Banjaca, and when it comes to "Deep" and when it comes to cleaning our rivers and when it comes to the Lim River, and Drina, and Morava, and the Raška River in Novi Pazar. The law is very important, because it follows some global tendencies. We heard today, and when we analyze the world's media, we will see that there is no important global forum that does not treat the issue of climate change, the agenda of President Biden. We'll see that at the top is the issue of climate change, the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement. All of this certainly concerns climate change and this is evidence that this government and this Parliament are moving forward with some of the world's challenges, that we are not running away from them and that we are responding adequately. This law has been spoken of for four, five years and evidence of both human resources and commitment and this government and this Ministry is what it is now that four, five years have been said, but today this law is before us and it is a huge success that this law will not be a dead letter on paper, but that it will be implemented. And there's evidence of these actions that I've been talking about. Indeed, I have absolutely no doubt that we will have even better results in the future. What I'm saying is when we talk about climate change, the first thing that comes to mind is the rise of the world's sea level, the problem of polar bears in the North Pole, and that's simply proof that global media, world media, are doing their job. However, it is also the responsibility of our media to support the ministry and government in these positive processes, in these actions and concrete results, but what is essential is education and education. We're witnessing that a lot of our people live in the diaspora. Unfortunately, I have to notice that they have one pattern of behavior when they live in Western Europe, and when Horgos and Batrovci pass, they behave differently here. So it is up to us to strengthen this restrictive policy and thus to influence both through education and through education on our children, but, for God's sake, grow up to change our habits a little bit. This law, I want to address citizens, is not just about some sublime global policy, the initiative of world philanthropy. It concerns our rivers, that our Lim be clean and Drina and Morava, that the Raška River is never red again in Novi Pazar and that Novi Pazar is no longer the third on the scale of the most polluted cities in the world, after Beijing and New Delhi, to reduce the number of malignancies, because, unfortunately, we are among the first in the world. As for the vote itself, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak parties in Serbia, will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3997	Thank you. Minister Irena Vujovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3998	Dear MP, first of all, I am extremely pleased that you are coming from Prepolje and that you can tell us from your personal corner and the corner of the people of Prepolje what a big problem the wild dump "Stvanina" was, and thank you for turning your attention to that from Sunday to Sunday. By the way, we raise our citizens' awareness of not doing anything like that again. So, at the moment we took over the environmental buffer, each of us received at least a few dozen messages, just like the painting of the "Stavin" dump in Prepolje and one of the first meetings was with the management of municipalities from the region. Of course, right after the dump was closed, we made a plan and dynamics, as you said, of taking the waste to Preboy. On this occasion, I also thank the management of the Municipality of Prytoy and all the citizens of Prytoy for their understanding, but also to assure them that we are working very quickly to solve this whole problem. So, apart from the fact that the work on Stanovina dump is under way, it is extremely important to say that the tendering of the transfer station for the works in Novi Varosha is ongoing. So, by the end of the year, the transfer of cells will be built, which will significantly relieve the region and that's what we're working on intensively. Those papers can't be solved in two, three weeks. So these are works that are also larger. As long as the transfer of cells is a transitional solution to some next dump and regional centre, it certainly takes time, because it is construction work with the technology required for waste management. So, Nova Varosh, the transfer of cells in the process is the choice of performers. As far as I'm aware, we expect the most recent period of time, when the legal procedures order it, to begin the work. What is also extremely important, and it is parallel processes, is the expansion of the Deep" Užice dump. So it's a regional dump. I had a chance to talk to the Mayor of Užica yesterday, who told me that the redesigns were over in a few days and that the work was going on afterwards. She'll be done by August of this year. So, when we expand the capacity to Uzica and resuscitate the rink, we will certainly unload both the Priboj and Prepolje from the waste. I thank you once again for drawing attention to this problem. As you said yourself, we also have the full support of the Prime Minister, but it also points out for this decades-long problem that we have managed to solve and close the deposit, as well as the President of the Republic. I would only appeal once again to the municipality leadership to strengthen control, not to let anything like that happen to us again not only when we talk about a dump in Prijepolje, but when we talk about both wild and smaller dumps on the tributaries, on Lima, on Drina and all that has led us to the Potpeč Lake, among other things. So, we're going to try to clean up everything we can together, and as Minister, I'm going to make an effort to focus our resources in the best possible way, so we're all really working together to raise the quality of life of citizens exactly and to focus our budget on that, and that's definitely the issue of aero-pollution, waste management, wastewater. Also, when I mentioned Užice and Duboko deposit, in addition to the Ministry's funds, 96 million dinars transferred at the end of 2020, it is also planned through a major project of the IBRD, therefore, for the regional deposit, so that even after this recovery and expansion of capacity, it will be working to improve this entire regional centre in the next two or three years. So, the work will start much faster, and this year it's projecting and, of course, all the loan negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u3999	Thank you. She didn't call you, pal. She said, "Dear People's Messenger," but here's a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4000	Thank you. Dear Minister, thank you. I, when I talk about Prepolje, about the problem of the non-sanitary dump of the State, pointed out, I don't speak as an MP, as a member and official of a party, not as a coalition partner, I speak as a citizen. I, unlike some colleagues, haven't changed my address. I live in Prijela. I came from Prepolje this morning and I'll be back every Thursday afternoon. I don't think the distinguished colleagues who didn't go through that magistrate's route can have any idea how big a problem that was. So I said, the problem started in the mid 20th century, you solved it and this government in five months, and that's something really that is a generational project and something where every well-intentioned man and politician and anyone, regardless of their belongings, should take off his hat and say every honor, because our children, my son, his peers, the generations that come, don't have to look at not that hill of garbage, but the mountain of garbage or mountain range that has spread and the end of that problem is not seen. So thank you. I think, as far as solving this problem is concerned, you need to be more public, because it's really one big success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4001	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4002	I would like to point out at the very beginning that the SDPS parliamentary group is pleased to vote in favour of this law. Why? Because it's a good law, because it's made under UN conventions, then, Kyoto agreements, then EU fluids. It is a sign that we continue to send a message, that Serbia is committed to European integration, that Serbia is the one who wants to join the EU and keeps its word, adapting its laws to EU assets. One more thing. One of each individual's greatest interests is living in a healthy environment. Nature should be respected, loved, but preserved, because healthy nature, a healthy environment, means the health of Serbian citizens, and that is the greatest value we can have. After all, this pandemic has shown what it means to fight for health and what it means to be a healthy environment. But clean rivers and lakes, clear streams, clean air is not made by political decrees, nor by laws, no matter how much they are a framework and a tool to do so, but by long persevering work, by changing the consciousness of each individual, our culture, and by requiring considerable material resources. You know, we've come to this situation precisely because of the greed of a man for a greater profit, and we've come to a great imbalance in nature. The biggest consequences of this are the very poor countries that do not have enough resources. To paraphrase, nature does not belong to man, man belongs to nature. And just when we don't respect it, when we create imbalances, then we come up with great consequences, and one of these are climate change and these pandemics that have been happening to us and that are going to happen to us. When I say we're changing citizens' minds, it's hard, but we have to start from kindergarten, from primary school, from high school, from college. We need to get used to respecting and loving our environment, to love nature, because that's the only way to keep it. If every founding father plants his tree, know that he will be respected and loved, and the tree is, as Uncle Jova the Dragon said, noblely, it will give much. That consciousness, that logic must be changed with us. You know, my colleague Rakonjac said, we've neglected one thing, and that's a volunteer question. I was in the U.S. by an impeccably clean river, but every morning I saw volunteers cleaning and what little garbage they had. So the state can't do everything. He has to understand that he has to change his dreams, his habits, because without it, we won't have a healthy environment. I can show you a lot of these places where there's been a lot of garbage, that's been cleaned up, after a month, two days of the same garbage again. Well, we can't keep cleaning up wild dumps, and we have a lot of them in our country. What I want to point out, and what I saw yesterday also said by the prime minister of our government, Ana Brnabic, is environmental protection is the first priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the SDPS as part of the ruling coalition will give you full support to make nature cleaner, better and better and to live better. I know it takes a lot of money. In the budget that will be in 2022, I expect your personal seal. I expect that much more resources will be sought, because we have time to wait for nature to change, for nature to give its results on its own, not if we don't do it right. I'd like to say next. This requires a single operation, not just an individual, not just one environment, not just a district, meaning, and neighbouring countries, the EU. Without uniform action, we won't have these results. I also stress that as a focus groups to achieve the objectives of sustainable development, and this law is one of those laws that implements the objectives of sustainable development, you will have full support, with the desire for you to have full support for funds, for Serbia's nature to be better, for better quality, and that will mean better development of our country. I stress in the end that we will vote with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4003	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4004	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with Associates, Honored Citizens, the Climate Change Act is a law that needs to be regulated by the system and that the framework restricting gas emissions with the effect of the glass garden and the adaptation system to the changed climate conditions. At the very beginning of my presentation, I'd like to say a few words about these gas emissions. Thus, greenhouse gases are those that retain the heat that the earth’s surface emits and thus make the earth warm. The gases that cause this effect are, above all, carbon dioxide, water steam, methane and other gases, and carbon dioxide represents 75% of all anthropogenic emissions of gases with a greenhouse effect, therefore, emissions caused by man. The concentration of carbon dioxide began to rise rapidly when people started using fossil fuels and compared to energy requirements, which in the last century and a half were growing, carbon dioxide emissions grew and now exceed the country's natural capacity for absorption. This leads to an increase in this gas in the atmosphere, which also leads to an increase in temperature. So, the main cause of the increase in our planet's temperature is greenhouse gases, and carbon dioxide is the most responsible as the dominant. The Paris Agreement, signed by all countries of the world, confirmed that the economic growth of investments will be monitored and reduced by emissions of these gases, and adapting to changed climate conditions is one of the conditions of sustainable economic development of the country and reducing risks and damages from natural and natural disasters. Serbia estimates that, due to extreme climate and weather conditions from 2000 to 2015, material damage was about five billion euros, and about 70% of these losses are related to drought and high temperature while others were linked to floods. As far as the bill itself is concerned, and in life is all a process, the time frame for the realization of technical and technological requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is such that a strategic i.e. is necessary. long-term planning followed by identification of concrete short- and medium-term measures. It is therefore also prescribed by this draft law to develop low carbon development strategies, action plan and adaptation programmes to changed climate conditions. This bill defines several important things. First of all, the biggest cause, i.e. The largest emitters of such gases that cause the greenhouse effect are identified and are located in the sectors of energy, agriculture, traffic, etc., and their growth should be limited. Secondly, the bill proposes limiting greenhouse gas emissions and the government prescribes emissions levels from sources at national level for installations and aviation activities, as well as for emissions from sectors and categories of fuel combustion and fugitative emissions from fuel, industrial processes and the use of products, agriculture and waste. Third, raising general awareness in the area of climate change and what role gas emissions from the industry, energy and aviation sectors play, as well as the availability of annual emissions data for these gases. So the transparency of the work of the ministry itself is increasing in this area. The largest share in the total emissions of these gases from the Republic of Serbia comes from the energy sector, including traffic. As production growth is predicted, this may lead to an uncontrolled increase in emissions of these gases, but at the same time, depending on how to plan and realise policies and measures, these sectors can be the greatest potential to reduce emissions, but therefore systematic and continuous monitoring of these emissions is required. Therefore, the proposal for this law establishes a national climate change council as the advisory body of the Government. The Council shall consist of representatives of the Ministry and of other bodies and organisations, representatives of the scientific and professional public, as well as representatives of civil society whose area of action is relevant for the identification and implementation of activities in the area of climate change. Therefore, in order to meet these objectives, the bill provides for the establishment of a systematic and continuous monitoring of the annual gas emissions reporting. Finally, the adoption of this bill will fulfil Serbia's obligations towards the international community, i.e. the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. For all the sake of the forwards of the JS parliamentary group, in the day the vote will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4005	I thank Parliamentarian Nenad Filipovic. The word has been authorised by the representative of the SVM Group Mr Akoš Ujhelji, i.e. since the time of the parliamentary group, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4006	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, such as the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Arpad Fremond has already stressed in his presentation, our parliamentary group will support the bill on climate change ahead of us, since we believe that the climate situation at global level is alarming and that we have very little time left to reverse the developments and preserve our planet for the next generations. Given that the draft law aims to meet the obligations towards the international community and to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law, as we have heard from the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Elvira Kovac, the question arises – how does the EU view the preservation of the environment and climate change? Dear People's MPs, the EU's environment policy aims to promote sustainable development and preserve the environment for the current and future generations. The direct benefits of this policy are general – better population health, conservation of natural resources, competitive economy, better quality of life. An important part of EU policy is also the fight against global climate change. EU environmental policy is based on the principles of preventive action, the principle of wage polluter, the fight against environmental disturbances at the very source of pollution, joint responsibility between the EU and Member States and including environmental protection in other EU policies. The EU environmental rules are extremely large and account for about one third of the total number of EU rules. The transposition of EU rules into the national legal system is only the first step in the process of adapting to European standards. The appropriate application and implementation of the rules at national and local level shall be understood. Significant investments are needed due to infrastructure investments, as well as the maintenance of the facility. A significant part of the cost of reaching EU standards will be financed right through EU funds. Dear People's MPs, our common goal is to establish a sustainable system of environmental protection in Serbia, as well as a significant involvement of this policy in other sectors. This will provide preconditions for better health, better quality of life for citizens and competitive economy. At the same time, negotiations in membership need to provide a sufficiently long transition period to adapt infrastructure and facilities in Serbia to high EU standards. Serbia will ensure high ecological standards, higher quality of air and water, conservation of biodiversity and integrated waste management systems following the harmonisation and application of the relevant standards. By investing in environmental protection, Serbia will also improve its position as a tourist destination, which will contribute to the development of tourism. In the past, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the government has made a number of decisions that are commendable. Perhaps the most important financial decision was to subsidize the purchase of electric cars and hybrids. In addition, a number of infrastructure projects have been achieved thanks to EU donations to reduce harmful gases. For example, 7.9 kilometers of cycling trail was built on the territory of the town of Subotica in the last year. Increasing the share of cycling traffic contributes to improving the quality of life, replacing certain forms of motorised traffic can reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality, and regular physical activity, thanks to daily cycling, contributes to the preservation of health. As part of the IPA project mentioned, a planned documentation for the construction of an additional 25km of cycling trails in Subotica and thanks to the good relations SVM with the SNS coalition partner was signed between the city of Subotica and the EU, as a donor of the project to continue the construction of a new cyclist path whose realisation is also started. We believe that it is extremely important and education and an increase in citizens' awareness of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, because with small changes and joint action we can achieve very good results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4007	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is exactly five minutes. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4008	The President-in-Office of the Republic of Serbia, we are today discussing an extremely important law whose application should prevent the fatal outcome of climate change both after the survival of our country and the planet Earth. We have before us a bill on climate change. Climate change is a global and systemic problem faced by all mankind. For decades, they have undoubtedly been the result of an industrial revolution and of human activity that changed the environment in order to achieve material values that had improved his life. Unfortunately, with the consequences of nature and living the world. In time, human activity, or anthropogenics, has led to an increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. As a result, there were more intense and extreme changes in climate than those naturally expected by our famous scientist Milutin Milanković. The man has disrupted the natural balance and ozone layer with his activities. That's why a man must stop the further process of destroying our only planet. Our reaction to climate change will be one of the biggest challenges humanity will face in this century, because if we don't do something, the world will be close to the point of no return. The key question is, what can we do to make sure it doesn't come to that? As a 21st-century civilization that is quite careless, and we can say quite irresponsiblely using natural resources and thus disrupting the ecological balance, we also have great responsibility for the future of our planet. No matter how difficult it may seem, and sometimes impossible for you to manage climate change, we are obliged to do everything as humanity to reduce the danger of catastrophic consequences. We have polluted the planet with waste, polluted many water streams, cut down the forests that the lungs of the planets and produce oxygen for the survival of the living world. Each country today is responsible for the reduction of waste, for the preservation of natural balance, and more responsibility has industrially developed countries that emit more harmful gases with the effect of the "glass garden". Every step is important. Serbia as a responsible society joins the world struggle for the survival of the planet, and above all to improve the state of the environment in our areas. We can start using renewable energy sources as soon as possible and stop using fossil fuels, sniffing even more surfaces, gradually moving on to means of transport that will pollute the environment and other activities. The rate of response is very important in this matter, because we no longer have time to wait for our planet to be saved. Climate change requires urgent action, which was agreed by almost all the states that signed the Paris Agreement, which undertakes to do everything in their power to keep the warming below two degrees. The Paris Agreement defines targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, adapting to changed climate conditions between 2021 and 2030. The signatories of this agreement are both the Republic of Serbia and as a responsible state have also created a legal framework for the implementation of global objectives. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has prepared the Law on Climate Change adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and today it is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Green Parliamentary Group, as an informal group of MPs, founded in 2009 with the goal of improving parliamentary work in the area of green policies, met 10. 3. In order to contribute to making this law even better and to propose four amendments which we will discuss during the debate in particular. The proposal for a climate change law will establish a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure adaptation to changing climate conditions, one of the EU's strategic objectives and the basis of the green and circular economy. This law fulfils obligations towards the international community, i.e. the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, and aligns domestic legislation with EU legal assets. Serbia reserves the right to create a legislative framework and sets development goals, taking into account all specificities of the economic and energy sector and other national socio-economic parameters. The estimates show that since 2000, the Republic of Serbia has faced several significant episodes of extreme climate and weather changes that have caused significant material and financial losses, as well as losses to the most important – human life. The proposal for a climate change law, in addition to the basic provisions, contains strategies and plans, policies and measures to limit gas emissions with the effect of "glass garden" from sources, monitoring reporting and verification of emissions from plants and aircraft activities, monitoring system, national gas emissions reporting, projections of the same sources and removal by means of a sink, policy reporting system and measures and projections, administrative fees, supervision, criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions. In order to make this law more effective, a list of facilities has also been built to monitor the reporting and verification of gas emissions with the effect of the "glass garden". The reminders work, the largest share in total gas emissions stems from the energy sector, then the agriculture, forestry and land use sectors. The main threat of climate change is not only an impact on biodiversity but also on human health. To understand the seriousness of climate change, I will mention only some of the consequences of human health, and these are many respiratory wards such as asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, many allergic diseases, and others. Then, cardiac disease. Also, the major impact of changes on the spread of insect infections such as Lyme disease, virus germs, and other so-called “insects”. "zonosis" and vector transmitted diseases. It is also a risk of food poisoning because the production and distribution of food is more susceptible to microbiological contamination of bacteria, increased ultraviolet radiation, skin impact, disease, and skin cancer. And that is not all, climate change affects not only physically but also the mental health of people, as well as the reduction of living and working ability, even mortality. All of these facts must be taken into account when public policies are adopted in the area of climate change and how serious the consequences we are already facing, because we did not respond in time. This pandemic of the coronary virus has shown us that when health is threatened at the world level, our economies and lifestyles change and weaken. That's why protecting human health is a priority that overcomes all barriers. Changes in public policies aimed at reducing gas emissions with the effect of the "glass garden" and at curbing climate change will also reduce air pollution, including disease and mortality. To conclude that from all above, the need to adapt, the unaltered climate conditions in the future are absolutely necessary. The concept of adaptation policy, unchanged climate conditions, which aim to reduce damage and losses due to natural disasters and natural disasters caused by climate change provide not only a healthy environment but also security of investment, as well as an impact on all segments of society. In other words, the adoption of this law would reduce the vulnerability of the Serbian economy, providing it with further development and sustainability, but above all impact on human health. That is why the law is a step further in bringing Serbia's legislation closer to EU environmental resources and will bring better health conditions and a healthy environment for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and help protect future generations from the negative consequences of climate change. So one appeal for public awareness of the need and necessity of moving from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources can no longer be a dead letter on paper, because another reserve state, if you want to, we don't have a planet. If we keep it, it's up to us. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4009	I thank the MP Dr. Vesni Ivkovic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4010	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with associates. Climate change is a wide range of global phenomena, such as an increase in earth's temperature, extreme weather opportunities, an increase in sea levels, melting of glaciers, both on poles and on high mountains and others. These changes are due to natural cycles, but also to an anthropogenic activity, that is to say, all of the human activity that leads to greenhouse gas emissions and an increase in their atmospheric concentration. This phenomenon is very important because climate change receptors are population, natural resources, environment, biodiversity, infrastructure, economy, etc. Efforts to address these problems at the world level since Kyoto Protocol signed by a large number of countries, which has set deadlines for emission reduction, through the Paris Agreement that promotes a voluntary approach with a view to maintaining an increase in global average temperature significantly below 2 degrees, reports on this by every state signatories every five years. Unfortunately, they haven't delivered any spectacular results yet. The impact of climate change does not bypass our Serbia either. Our country has ratified this agreement and it is up to us to show our willingness to deal with this big problem. As a positive example of this occasion, I would like to cite several projects that the town of Leskovac has implemented in the area of environmental protection. I'd say a few important environmental resources that fit perfectly in the fight against climate change. The town of Leskovac has a built and functional, regional, sanitary dump that accepts municipal waste from the territory of the Jablanic district, but also several municipalities outside. In the beginning, only waste disposal was done without any previous treatment. Today, a waste management plant, a technical unit for the treatment of waste, classification and storage of non-hazardous and hazardous waste from municipal waste, has been built and put into operation under a non-hazard waste dump. The whole process to deposit and self-deposit of municipal waste is in line with the standards applied in this area, and has been defined by the contract signed by the town of Leskovac with the company PVV Por Verner and Weber, now the company Por and the valid permits issued by the relevant ministries. As a kind of complement to this project, and in order to address the problem of waste in the territory of the town of Leskovec, I would mention the action of cleaning up, regular cleaning of wild dumps that have been carried out in Leskovic since 2013. The action implies that on the basis of data on locations of such waste dumps that have a negative impact on the environment and on human health, each, but every weekend, cleaning is done. All the institutions in the waste management system are involved, but they promote and actively involve public and volunteering locals, local communities on whose territory the dump is located. To date, more than 500 locations and dumps of about 5,500 tonnes of solid municipal waste have been cleaned in the regional sanitary dump of Željkovac, and most of the sites have been enriched with new seedlings and brought to their purposes. I would also mention two capital projects in the area of water management. It's two important resources, monumental, I'd say, for the Jablan County. These are the accumulation of “Barium” on the river Veternica, a plant for the processing and purification of surface water “Gorina” that regulate water management for drinking. And, second project, which we're especially proud of. It is a central wastewater treatment plant for wastewater management in the territory of the town of Leskovec. The accumulation of "Barija" is a multi-purpose water system that represents the most important part of the population water supply and the economy of the town of Leskovec and the municipalities of Lebana, but also an inevitable factor in flood protection, as a result of climate change in acceptance and retention of applications with open potential for the use of the hydroenergy potential of dam and accumulation. Water from the accumulation of “Baria” is taken to a plant for the processing and treatment of surface water “Gorina”, and then to a clean water tank “Radar hair” which ensures the uniformity of water use and the necessary reserves for unforeseen circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister. It is known that less than 10% of waste water is being processed in Serbia and that huge investments are needed to build a system for their processing. The project manages wastewaters of the town of Leskovec consists of three components – the construction of a 5.150-metre collector financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the Ministry of Environmental Protection of 460 million dinars, while the town of Leskovac allocated 27 million dinars for land expropriation. Then, construction of a central wastewater treatment plant that has a line of water and a line of mud and an expansion of a sewage network of about 90km for 16 settlements, which are gravitating around the central plant itself, which is part of the ORIO programme financed by the Kingdom of Holland government of eightm euros. The modern waste water treatment plant with a water line and partial oil treatment was completed in 2016 and financed by the EU delegation from the IPA programme of 10 million and 460,000 euros, while the city provided all the necessary conditions, of course, for smooth work. To realise the second phase, the construction of a line of mud of anerobic dyastia by the government of the Republic of Serbia and again by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, 4.2m euros were allocated. In this way, the City of Leskovac has circled the process of collecting and treating waste water, preventing waste water pressure on the environment and has become an example of solving all problems to other local self-governments in Serbia, and of course in the region. As additional activities, to protect against floods, the city intensively cleans the canals on its territory, building discharge channels at critical points. There's also an operational plan to resuscitate the canal. Recognizing the urgency and importance of taking measures to improve air quality, the City of Leskovac prepared a draft short-term air protection action plan on its territory for the period 2021-2023. This plan defines locations of increased pollution, a list of polluting substances, sources of pollution and measures and activities to reduce air pollution. Taking into account that it is the most efficient, cheapest measure to improve air quality, we all know this, shaming, in 2019 we applied and fully implemented the project “Shumping of public green area – Memories of park and zone of protective greenery”. The project was again implemented through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and based on the call for a competition for the award of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Of course, in this year 2021, the town of Leskovac applied for two projects, it's a hammock. The funds are defined and in the amount of one million and a half dinars, as well as another project, it is a replacement of 18 million dinars, as defined by the JKP "Toplani". I really thank the Ministry of Environmental Protection for this, especially Minister Vujovic. Finally, by respecting all the principles of environmental protection, and in particular the principle of sustainable development, which brings the interests of environmental protection and economic development into line, using European and world experience in this area, and especially through the adoption of this law, Serbia will set realistic goals which, I am convinced, will be achieved in the coming period. I wish the minister successful work and her ministry, and in the day of the vote, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law in a very warm way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4011	I thank the People's MP. Since the SPP-United Peasants' Party has no more time, we move on to the next speaker, it is a national MP, Samira Ćosovic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4012	Your Honor, climate change is one of the most serious environmental problems. It is caused by changes in the natural effect of a glass garden that retains heat from the surface of the earth and achieves a warm atmosphere suitable for life. The first thing I would like to mention is that when it comes to climate change, it is not about the natural cycles of warming and cooling described by our famous scientist Milutin Milankovic, but about the changes caused by human activity. Human activity has increased carbon dioxide emissions by unlimited burning of fossil fuels. So coal, oil, natural gas, which is also caused by carbon dioxide release in the atmosphere, which has increased temperature. Possible consequences include extreme weather conditions and melting of polar ice. Climate change is closely related to waste. Nearly two-thirds of people in Serbia, 73% more precisely delay waste on non-sanitary dumps, leaving the dump in the atmosphere as much as 27% of total methane emissions, a gas that is 21 times more powerful than carbon dioxide when it comes to climate change. Therefore, the plan is for all Serbian citizens to postpone waste to sanitary dumps by 2029 and for the recycling rate to reach 50% of the population by 2035. In Serbia, around 2.4 million tonnes of waste are produced annually, and wild dumps have more than 3.5 thousand on the entire country's territory. While sanitary dumps have a depositary gas collection system, wild methane goes into the atmosphere and has a major impact on climate change. The government of the Republic of Serbia is now working on concrete steps related to waste management. I will now speak as a folk MP who comes from the municipality of Prijepolje where thanks to the vigorous commitment of the municipality's management of the municipality of Prijepolje, the understanding of the management of neighbouring municipalities of Pribo and Nova Varoš, and primarily thanks to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and your personal engagement, Mrs Vujovic, after many years of exploitation of the site of the dump in Stanjevini, has been closed as a temporary pre-poly dump. Since then, municipal waste from the Prepolje municipality is being transported to a temporary location in Druglici. It is particularly important to say that the recovery and reculation of the temporary dump of the State is under way. Most of it is full of land, and the work will last until half of May at the latest. Disposal of municipal waste at the Deep Stream dump in Druglici will take at least two years to build a transfer station with recycling at the site of Banjica where the waste from all three municipalities will be transported to the Duboko dump in Užica where, as you said, they are already in the course of project activity at the expansion of the body of the dump. By closing the Stavina dump, as well as all other dumps, and from the media I have followed your engagement at the closure of the dump, the wild dump in Kovin, will contribute to the fight against climate change, improving human health and improving the quality of life of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Although two and a half years have passed since the public debate on the draft climate change law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the bill and we are talking about it in plenary today. The application of the Climate Change Act will establish a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure adaptation to changed climate conditions. In doing so, the bill fulfils the obligations towards the international community, i.e. the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, and brings domestic legislation into line with EU legal acts. The bill envisions the adoption of a low-carbon Republika Srpska strategy with an action plan within two years, which will be valid for 10 years from the entry into force of this law. The law constitutes a legal framework for further action with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting n climate change, one of the EU's five strategic objectives and the basis of the green and circulatory economies. As the most important thing to prevent climate change and build a society that will not be dependent on fossil fuels is to add changes to people's minds. The Climate Change Act is one of the most important laws to be adopted in the Republic of Serbia. It affects all segments of society, and our awareness of climate change and adaptation will affect the future of all mankind. For the end, I shall state the words of Charles Darwin – they do not survive the strongest species, nor the most intelligent ones, but those that adapt most to change. Serbia's Social Democratic Party, Rasim Ljajic, will support the law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4013	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. (The Chairman speaks in native language. ) The word is a folk letter from Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4014	Thank you very much, Vice President Kovac. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected minister with associates, the problem of climate change has been recognised worldwide. Europe, and the Republic of Serbia has decided to deal with this problem. The bill on climate change comes at a time when events, i.e. adverse impacts that support the emergence of climate change, are very intense. The SVM Group welcomes this proposal in particular, taking into account the fact that it has long been announced in the previous meeting. Sustainable development, which implies a harmonious economy, society and the environment, has just determined economic development that aims to reduce the effects caused by unwanted climate change, as well as to understand how to respond and behave in the perception of these impacts. By means of this law, we will actually try to limit and reduce the impact of the main factors that generate climate change. Sustainableness is aimed primarily at limiting greenhouse gas emissions, monitoring and reporting of the low-carbon development strategy, as well as the adaptation programme to changing climate conditions. The objectives of the bill are very clearly defined, driven by the use of alternative energy sources in line with UN and EU climate policies that SVM MPs certainly welcome. The bottom line is that human activity increases the production of gases that contribute to the creation of the greenhouse effect and that certain sectors are recognised as sectors that mainly lead to an increase in the transmission of these gases. The law is required, it introduces a way of monitoring the amount of transmission of these gases, as well as their choice. When Serbia has a comprehensive insight into the level of gas transmission, it will be able to take measures aimed at reducing emissions. The bill elaborates and regulates the establishment of a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in an operational way, as well as all issues of importance for limiting the emissions of these gases and adapting to changing climate conditions. The law points to adaptation guidelines, represents a synthesis of sectoral behaviour and requires the necessary tasks of territorial and administrative units. This is clearly highlighted in the light of the preparation and adoption of the adaptation programme to changing climate conditions, which should generate and implement sectoral documents including authorities and organisations of local self-government on applied adaptation measures, as well as phenomena such as floods, extreme temperatures, droughts and other and their consequences, which generate both roles and tasks for local self-government to define local problems, as well as the response to climate change. If this adds to the problems of natural disasters caused by climate change, the problems of the process of adequate preparation and adaptation are becoming even more complex to which local self-government within its competences must be prepared. The climate change adaptation programme with the associated action plan is being prepared and adopted to identify the impact of climate change on sectors and systems and to identify adaptation measures to changing climate conditions on those sectors and systems where adverse impacts need to be reduced. The analyses have shown that the existing capacities of competent institutions are not sufficient for timely and adequate implementation of the provisions of the law, given the size and complexity of those institutions, and it is necessary to strengthen capacity in the form of additional staffing of a specifically trained profile. The aim of this law is therefore to create a legal basis for the adoption of planning documents in the area of climate change and to establish a monitoring and reporting system for greenhouse gas emissions, all in order to combat climate change in the process of adapting to the same. The passing of the law is the first serious and necessary step on this extremely important path for all of us, for our future, which the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians certainly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4015	I thank the People's Parliament. The last pay phone, before lunch break, is Nina Pavivi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4016	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Climate Change Act is one of the important laws concerning the future of our country. The adoption of this law will fulfil the obligations towards the international community, will be in line with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement and will bring domestic legislation in line with the European Union's legal regulations. This law is very complex, and it goes into a number of sectors with its fact. The adoption of this law and implementation will establish a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure adaptation to changing climate conditions. Despite the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, for the Republic of Serbia, it is one of the priorities of just passing this law because of our further relationship with the issue of environmental pollution, essentially, depends on the future of all humanity. At the beginning of the coronation of the virus, when there was still a chance that the problem would not grow into a global crisis, most of humanity was incomprehensible that this virus could cause such a pandemic that changed the face of the world. Such an understanding has resulted in all the severe effects of the virus. I compare Kovid-19 to environmental issues, precisely because humanity, I think, is not yet aware of the possible global consequences of excessive air pollution, water, food and environmental imbalance. I believe that the appearance of the crown of the virus and the consequence of the health of our planet's population will warn us and make us aware that even nature can drastically take revenge on us. So I made a little comparison with the pandemic, because I also see all of these elements of global risk in the event of climate change. It may seem to all of us that the problem is abstract and far away, that all of this is happening out there and somewhere else, we view it most often as a local problem, as a problem that needs to be identified or solved by someone else. Therefore, to identify the depth of climate change problems, it is necessary to lead a serious campaign, educate the public and make people responsible for all actions and actions that threaten nature and natural resources. Otherwise, we have a great fight to preserve humanity. For years, nature has helped a man to survive and has been selfless toward him. Used to give nature itself, always unconditionally and unselfishly, considering itself to be a stronger, more powerful and important part of the system, a man declared himself an unhinged master of nature, and all for personal pleasure and a comfortable life. The moment has come when nature must be excused and we begin to return it. It's not always possible to go back, man has crossed the red line in many sectors, unfortunately, but the task of our generations is to stop further pollution. Nature, unfortunately, began to defend itself from us. It has also warned us of the consequences it has suffered in recent years, and all of this is manifested through various natural disorders, floods, rains, droughts, earthquakes, consequences such as the destruction of basic conditions for life, which are pollution of water and air, deforestation, devastation of land and damage to the ozone envelope. These natural consequences of our relationship to the planet are also referred to as climate change. As I have already said, climate change is most affected by the human factor, and the consequences will reflect the survival of many plant and animal species, which depends most on their speed of adaptation to new climate conditions. Their disappearance would lead to a food chain disorder, including the ecosystem itself. World experts and the international forum warn of the condition of the planet, as much as it is in bad shape and that there is a kind of war with nature, but we must be aware that only we, the people who have violated the ecological balance, have to save the planet, that we simply cannot lose that battle, because that would mean the disappearance of humanity. Climate change isn't the future, it's what's happening to us right now, here and everywhere around us. How threatened mankind’s survival is also the fact that the disappearance of an insect species, which is a bee, would quickly disappear food, the whole plant world, and then all of us. Serbia is also in a group of countries that will be very exposed to climate change in the near future. More and more talk is about the disappearance of forests in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a consequence of large cuts, droughts, fires and almost tropical heats. More noise is the condition of oxygen production, without whom, you'll agree, there is no life. To preserve natural resources, Serbia began protecting its nature 70 years ago. These are primarily national parks, reserves, nature parks and other protected areas. Today, it is under protection in Serbia about 7.65%, and the goal is to reach about 10% with the highest level of protection. Serbia's natural values have also been recognised by world protection organisations, such as UNESCO, which is doing so through the programme. The man and biosphere within which Đerdap was included in the global list of geoparks, which are only 161 in the world on July 10, 2020, with all its unique and natural and cultural features, which is a great recognition for institutions dealing with nature protection in Serbia, for a resolute ministry as a top state body implementing Serbia's environmental policy. This fact, unfortunately, has been very modestly published. The Đerdap National Park is also protected by the Carpathian Convention, which Serbia has ratified, as well as the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management under the mentioned Convention, which aims to protect Europe's most valuable forest complexes and increase the area under forests, as well as their protective function in preventing floods, slides, water flow regulation, as important measures to adapt to climate change. Therefore, we must not allow climate change manifested through the destruction of natural heritage to affect this natural treasure. Also, UNESCO has declared two of our areas for biosphere reserves, which are the Golia, Studenica and the Backo Podunavlje reserve. Serbia should meet various conditions by 2030 to adapt to climate change, including the expansion of forest territory, and mass shaming is the best prevention. It is evident that human activities make a significant contribution to climate change, i.e. we spend nature much more than nature can give us without suffering the consequences. So at one point comes the moment when the bills are to be charged, and some future generations will have to fill in the gaps that we consciously or unconsciously make. As we are obliged to preserve our historical heritage and cultural heritage, so we are obliged to preserve our nature. The only way to fight climate change is to understand as humanity that the fate of the planet depends on us and that we will preserve it if we realize that major changes are necessary in the way people live. I hope that by passing this law, we will first and foremost have cleaner and healthier air in Nis, Valjev and Cačka, as well as in all of Serbia. It is good that Serbia is passing this long-prepared law and we as the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group are ready to participate in this fight and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4017	I thank the MP Nina Pavicevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Next is MP Marko Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before further discussion, let me inform you. You have received the resignation of MP Milan Savic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Election of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Milan Savic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Marko Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4019	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Environment Minister, Mrs Vujovic, respected citizens and citizens across our beautiful country, today there is a law that I consider to be one of the most important laws in the field of environmental protection, a law by which the adoption of a small Serbia shows that it is part of Europe and that it is part of the world and that as such it equally participates in solving a major global problem. This law shows that Serbia is harmonising its legislation with EU legislation and that we are finally ready and able to discuss in this way such a serious topic as ecology, environmental protection and sustainable development. The purpose of this law is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by applying it. I mean, first of all, carbon dioxide and methane, but also those less present but equally harmful, such as azotsuboxide, hydrocarbon compounds with fluorine, as well as inorganic compounds containing fluorine. This law is proof that after a long time at the head of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also at the head of the government and at the head of our country, there are people who recognize the importance of investment in environmental protection. In a short time, they showed that some shifts can be seen through dedicated work. The shifts of citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be appreciated, Mrs Vujovic. I am particularly pleased with the attention you have given in your work to all segments of environmental protection. You worked evenly and solved the problems of surface and wastewater. Mrs Vujovic, I am particularly pleased with the announcement of investment in the construction of a wastewater processing facility across our country. This is how we protect surface water, protect groundwater, but also what we haven't talked about here today, protect land and work to improve quality and land. By investing in regional waste management centres, station transfer and sanitary dumps, we solve the problem so-called. The wild dumps that exist all over our country, the way it's done in the world's most developed countries. There is a famous flossula that says – there is a treasure in the waste, and we should think about it and strive for a system where only a small amount of waste will be put off and most of the waste will be recycled in appropriate ways, we should do their treatment and eventually return to use again. What may be most important and closely related to this law concerns the quality of air in our country. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we certainly need to work on modernising industrial plants throughout our country. It is also necessary to reduce the pollution arising from individual lodges, traffic pollution, and I will take this opportunity to praise the recently completed competition in your ministry, Mrs Vujovic, which involved modernising boilers in individual bars. Our economy should be so focused that it meets the principle of green jobs, to exploit all the benefits that green economy gives and to invest even more in an economy that will harm the environment less. You've really done a lot, Mrs. Vujovic, we're all aware of that here. But you and I and everyone here know that's not enough, that we need to work harder, even harder, because there's an area that's big, complex, hard and expensive. We have to admit that. But the more you do, Mrs. Vujovic, the more you will be attacked. They'll attack you when they can't find a reason for you in the work you're doing, because you're making some kind of a lapus. They'll attack you because you're a woman, because you're worthy and capable. They'll attack you, perhaps, because they don't like your shirt you've worn today, they'll attack you because you're a member of the SNS, because you support our President Alexander Vukic's policy in the fight for better, more advanced and more developed Serbia. You will be attacked by the same ones, Mrs Vujovic, who robbed this country. You will be attacked by the same ones who have bank accounts across Switzerland and Mauritius. You will be attacked by the same people who look only at their own interests. It will not attack only you, Mrs Vujovic, and our president, as they do, will attack Mrs Brnabic, Mr Martinovic, Mrs Christmas, me, all of us here, because we will not allow them to return to power and continue to steal as they did when they were part of the government in some previous period. They worked against the country's interest for their own personal interests, and based on their co-operation with some of their foreign sponsors, they can say so. And you will attack us. If those people are going to attack us, then I'm happy and proud to be part of the SNS. I'm proud to be here today and to be able to discuss the Climate Change Act, a law that I personally think should have been on the agenda a long time ago, but I must admit, better ever than never. When it comes to this law, we can freely say that here is the thesis – think globally and act locally. Because, right through the operation of local self-government, we can do much to help your resolution ministry, Mrs Vujovic. As one example, they can certainly cite their city, their Panchevo, which, even before this law came to order, applied certain projects covered by this law and which you, through the operation of your ministry, represent. Through a public-private partnership project, my Pančevo last year solved the problem of poor public transport - outdated buses that did not meet absolutely any conditions we replaced with new, modern, environmentally acceptable buses. All buses that can meet today on the street of Pancheva have a Euro 6 engine and a concentration of polluting matter that they release into the atmosphere is relatively low. In this way, we've reduced the share of polluting matter in the air, which stems from traffic. For the past five years, the local government of the town of Pancheva has issued a call for co-financing of projects to join the gas network. All interested citizens, who want their individual pads to be inserted into solid fuel with a gas connection, will be subsidized by our city administration. The number of interested citizens, year by year, is increasing. We, year by year, spend more and more resources. That the heat in Panchev is one of the most significant emitters of polluting matter in the air, we all know that, in Panchev, very well. However, with one major project, cross-border co-operation, between Romania and our city, within a project titled "Banatski Sun for All", we have built large solar panels, a large solar field, aimed at heating water, which is used in the thermal power plant process. In this way we also made sure that one part of the settlement, located next to the heat, had sanitary hot water, for use. I certainly call on Mrs Vujović to come to Pančevo to visit our city, to discuss these positive examples of our practice, but also to discuss other many issues, concerning environmental and environmental protection, in our city, because I believe that when we bring each other closer to all the positive examples we have, in our local self-government, that only together can we progress, even faster, in this field. I will certainly support this bill in the voting day, but I will take this opportunity and invite all my colleagues and colleagues to do the same, because that way we make a small contribution to the fight against climate change, in the fight that we all, on this planet we live on, is very important, we don't have another planet, and it's ours that we keep the one we have, the best we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4020	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Justin Pupin Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4021	I thank the esteemed chairman, the honourable minister, with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Climate Change Act, which is on the agenda today, is being arranged for a system to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The provisions of this law apply to greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activity. The aim of this law is to set up a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in a cost-effective way, and to avoid climate change on a global scale. We live in a time of great challenges and security threats. Climate change represents a modern security problem and everything they carry directly and indirectly affects every country's national security. Climate change is being imposed as a key topic of international relations today due to a security connotation. In the past, climate change has been very slow and it has been easy to adapt to them, but the accelerated development of human civilization in particular in the 19th and 20th centuries has resulted in the acceleration of climate change due to the emergence of a new anthropogenic factor. Every day, nature tells us that it is not satisfied with the way we treat it with ever more frequent floods, tsunamis, hurricanes, melting of glaciers, earthquakes, global increase in rainfall and acid rain, extinction of plant and animal species. Environmental change as a security threat could cause changes such as rising sea levels, food and water shortages, increased pollution, natural disasters, international and internal conflicts, environmental migration and so on. All these environmental threats pose a significant threat to the environment and their consequences reflect on the safety of human, state and entire planets, as the issue of environmental security is a significant segment of the internal security of every country, as well as the security of all humanity because air pollution, rivers, seas and land knows no borders. Because of its innate urge to acquire, man treats the planet as if it were his private property and therefore has every right to destroy nature and exploit personal needs. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines the right of citizens to a healthy environment but also determines the duty of citizens to protect and improve the environment. I would like to take this opportunity and appeal to each and every one of us every day ask what I can do to make my city, my country, our planet a better place to live, how I can contribute. Mahatma Gandhi said -- be the change you want to see in the world. As I prepare for today's topic in the book National Security from Professor Sasa Mijalković, I found data on water shortages caused by climate change. In fact, UN estimates suggest that in 2025, about two billion people will most likely face water shortages. It is estimated that around a billion and 100 million people today have no access to drinking water at all, that two and a half billion people do not have adequate plumbing and sewerage, that every year between eight and 15 million people die from maligned water diseases, which is ten times the number of victims in wars around the world. Some six thousand children die daily because of diseases caused by the use of polluted water. Now maybe someone will say, well, it happens to someone else, it's not our country's problem, but it's just like that. There is an illustration that perfectly depicts today’s society. Namely, two men sit in a boat and at one end of the boat there is a hole and water enters through that hole. The man in that part of the boat is trying to flush the water out of the boat while the man on the other end of the boat says, sits down and says – thank God, the hole is not in my part of the boat. We need to live in harmony with nature, and the best example of it is Indians who have lived for centuries listening to nature. Accordingly, I would end my exposure today with the words of the chief of an Indian tribe who says – only when they cut down the last tree, catch the last fish and poison and the last river will the white man realize that he cannot eat money. In the end, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4022	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4023	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Madam Minister with my associates, all I have to do is rely on this last exhibit I've heard. There are some in Serbia who really think they can eat all the money, even if they live off what they're going to eat, and they have it so much that they might eat for life. Still, let me get back to the subject. Dear Minister, it is my great pleasure to hear today's proposal for climate change laws. I'm very aware of how complex this is a law that required a lot of effort and a lot of work, but by coming to the head of the ministry really knowing you, I knew you weren't just going to be dealing with little problems, you were going to be bravely dealing with the biggest problems of this complex ministry whose head you are. You have done so in the previous period, I say, very briefly, in fact, proved, dealing with the biggest environmental problems, practically making a strategy compared to further development of the environment and everything that is a problem for your ministry in the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you on this and congratulate you on this well done law, the bill of law. The MPs here today have exhibited really exhaustively both those who were authorized and speakers, and I see that the list is actually lengthy and that there is an extremely great interest in entering into the essence of this law and in order to introduce itself to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will begin with a topic concerning certainly your jurisdiction and when we talk about the town of Pančevo, my fellow respected, Marko Mladenovic mentioned Pančevo for a little while. We know very well that Panchevo, at least as far as your portfolio is concerned, is very complex, but thanks to SNS policy and everything we did in the previous period, Panchevo has really become one place for life quite different from the one I grew up in. I can say that my children will grow up in a healthy Panchev, and we all know very well what they think when they say it. But last night, the public upset one other fact and one event, in fact, occurred in Pancheva in a circle of the former glass mill last night. It might not be news, certainly not of this kind, if certain members of the former government hadn't and this event tried sensationalistly to exploit, exclusively for political purposes, but I'll come back to it later. I'll try to make it public to just say what it's all about. So, within the circle of the former glass mill, there was one warehouse, one storeroom, one storeroom, and it caused, of course, panic among the citizens of Panchev. On this point, you pleaded, that is, during the evening, as I understood it, and the mayor of Pancheva was on the ground at the same time and very clearly and very quickly addressed the public and said there was no further danger from this fire, that the fire was localised and that the citizens of Pancheva, most importantly at that time were safe. So, you said that environmental inspectors at the recent controls on this particular location found that there was no manure based on ammonium nitrate with high nitrogen content and that citizens had no reason to worry. Security certainly comes first, and we'll continue, that's what you said, to control that location and to determine if there are dangerous substances in the fertilizer. I thank you for that and for your dedicated work and for being involved in the whole event last night. However, what has further upset the public, and despite this news, is the tweet by Marinika Tepic, who is always found to comment on something that, in fact, is not on it, but is practically serving in a daily political match with the president of Serbia, with the Serbian Progressive Party, but in this case, it has also served to deal with the citizens of Panchev, and how, I will briefly present it to you. So, a very disturbing tweet that is, practically tentuously written to cause general panic and general chaos, because we know that it's about Marinika Tepic and whoever invents everything that Marinika Tepic is doing today and is doing, Dragan Djilas, trying in every possible way to destabilise Serbia daily, they saw here another chance to create a certain chaos in which they only know and can function and as they are from all the forces of the effort these days to take advantage of and create chaos on the streets, so they also tried last night to create a serious confusion and to bring panic among the citizens of my Panchev. So, what is disturbing is what Marinika inspired her followers with her tweet and what we had the opportunity to read under that tweet, and they very clearly and decadently said what they wanted to Pančevci, as well as Marinika Tepic. Citizens, I said a little while, once again I'm going to underline they were in time informed of the situation. The mayor was out in the field and a very fast fire was localized and any kind of danger was removed, and let alone a threat to us, I don't know what kind of security situation in the city of Pancheva. However, what left doubt is, in fact, today’s comments and current allegations that could have been heard in the city of Pancheva that the fire was certainly not accidental. I don't want to prejudge anything here. The competent authorities will certainly try to identify the cause of the fire, but what came under a very complex disturbing tweet that should only have been used to cause a general panic among the citizens of Panchev, has sent a message about what Marinika Tepic and her followers think of Pancheva and how he wants Panchevo to see in the future, as well as in that moment. So we found underneath that, which Mrs. Marinika didn't react to at all, and these are monstrous things. So, I'm reading to you a tweet and one of Marika's followers - Pancheva needs a serious reset to factory settings and to learn that their advanced sect is an enemy as well as to the entire nation, to crack like Beirut. So one of her followers wanted Panchevo to go into the air, as we had the opportunity to watch in the previous days of Beirut. Behind that were the praises of Marinika Tepic, where is one of the comments – and a wonderful miracle, who will answer for this? Probably not Marinika Tepic, who apparently caused the overall panic. She'll probably stay unpunished for that. One of the tweets was, "You've done a good job." So Marinika Tepic clearly showed what she thinks of the citizens of Panchev. Marinika Tepic wished together with her followers last night that Panchevo would go into the air and see another bloodshed, i.e. to see another Beirut, which we saw, unfortunately, the disastrous consequences he left for the city and how many victims he took, but certainly again I stress, last night there was no danger for the citizens of Pancheva and yet another information to confirm that the media confirmed, very quickly that the Pančeks were not at any time in danger, that only the auxiliary facility had been burned and that there were no dangerous substances that would cause such a scenario, no matter how many of them in their bloody thoughts, attempts, wanted to challenge them. We are left to wonder if Marinika Tepic, along with her employer Dragan Gilas, is tending to... She sent a message to push that she really wants Panchevo to burn, and her followers and the criminals she's with, given the allegations I said a little while ago, who showed up in public that the fire wasn't random, that, practically, those with whom she was pushing that wish had been fulfilled. Before that, you had a chance, almost, every day to see that what Gilas imagines, Marinika at one of the street conferences of the drafts, so she drew a target at the head of President Aleksandr Vukic, Andrej Vukic, Danil Vukic, and then somehow there was a Belivuk who shot the sniper and was there, fortunately in time prevented this desire by Marinika Tepic and Dragan Dilas and fulfilled. The entire Gilas media hack in the previous days has been directed, in fact, and this one with Pancheva, you will see, in this one hyper war, the accumulation of false information, the false news in a very specific war against the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, you will see that, in fact, the goal is only one, and this is by this hyperproduction of lies to reroute the whole topic from the subject of Mauritius, because this is what Dragan Gilas today and how it hurts. To be honest, this kind of panic and this sort of rush of madness, I can freely say madness, given that you... The urge to set fire to the city of Panchevo, we haven't seen it in a while. So, panic is at its peak because there's an obvious map tower of lies they've built in the previous period before the collapse, and God knows, there's little left for me, because tomorrow, the evidence will be there, and then we'll see, as Dragan Gilas admitted to us at some unsettling conference he held, where he barely connected three minutes, and after that, to repair himself, he made another one, and then he managed to make even worse fiasco, and that he actually explained to the citizens of Serbia that he really has an account in Switzerland, that in that account he was the user, along with his brother Gojko Gilas. I'll remind you of newspaper headlines that before that, over five million euros were moved to that account, and then he tried to tell us something -- it's not my personal account, it's my company's account. So, by playing, by manipulating what his firm is, by transferring ownership, he's trying to tell us that it doesn't matter whether the account is on his name or on the company's account. I don't think that can go away. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia that when it comes to Dragan Djilas, all the networks, the lies he built along with Marinik Tepic, who apparently put his head where Dragan Djilas could not have put his foot on, and for that alone, he will not be able to fool the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Tomorrow we'll see evidence that counts on Mauritius, which he said was just a tourist visit. However, how much Gilas is a coward and how the entire network works, along with the points they obviously pay and who, in his head, are probably just doing what he wants to do, which is re-emergence to power. A Montenegrin man made it, let me say, a businessman trying to Dak... Yeah, that's usually Gilas's big friend, to just say one message to him, and I think if he's a little smart, he'd have to think about it -- that being on Twitter doesn't mean that you're going to have votes in the election and the government isn't going to win on the street and on Twitter, it's going to be in the election. We saw when we had the last elections, and we saw it based on the last research we had, and it's about the trust that citizens have in Alexander Vukic and SNS, that it's actually never bigger. So, Dragan Gilas to agree with himself whether or not he has bills in Switzerland, and we know that he has, whether or not he has bills in Mauritius, and we'll see tomorrow that he has, and then we'll see what hyperproduction of the lies of Marinika Tepic, who again, I say, the outcast megaphone of Dragan Gilas puts always where he would never put his foot, and we've just put her head, so we've had one title in the paper, after that famously unmistakable press conference, he could eat something before he comes out to a press conference, because we absolutely don't hear anything, and we don't understand it, I don't know how that weakness, probably from some big coward who's trying to hide, then he can't agree with his media. So after the press conference, he says, "Wolf is a coward. I'll sue him. I don't have any bills in Switzerland or Mauritius. "Below that same title, directly RS, which is owned by Dragan Gilas, and he is obviously also an editor, and a writer, and a journalist, and all that is needed, since apparently nobody wants to place this lie in person, can't agree, because he is probably not capable enough to think and write at the same time, he writes one title, and in the body of the text, he says, "When it comes to Switzerland, there is a company founded by my company and it has been doing legal business for seven years. "So do you have or don't you have an account in Switzerland? Do you or don't you have an account in Mauritius? Do you have or do you not have a dozen accounts around the world, where you have robbed money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hide your wealth, to avoid paying taxes and to remain the greatest criminal and thief in the history of this country? The second thing, the evicted megaphone Marinika Tepic for stories and questions about Mauritius is silent. I'm a lady, I won't tell which animal she's silent and what animal that silence reminds her of, even though she's not a lady. We have had our chance in the previous period and to see that it is just another member of the organized criminal group, but we will remain dignified in this House and I will still address her as a woman, regardless of what a terrible campaign, campaign against the president of the state, against members of his family, targeting their heads, attacks at the same time from all portals, from all possible news articles, his media, the media of Dragan Gilas. My colleagues, Aleksandar Martinović, Vladimir Orlic, were also attacked, and you, Mrs Vujovic, were the subject and news of one stupidity, because they were probably not capable of anything else in your work, because they can only count the results and in that name I congratulate you once again and I want you to continue to deny them every day. I'm sure you'll do it more than once during the day, because the results you're making are something that will remain behind you and behind the Serbian Progressive Party's policy and behind the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, just the one I said to put his head on for some reason, probably that this salary in "Multicom" is very high when it's willing to risk its reputation, honor and cheek, and I'd say it doesn't even own it anymore, and then there's nothing to lose, for everything that Dragan Gilas's malversions, his 619 million, but I think that long ago the story of 619 million has passed, because certainly that man, if he had so many accounts, had so much more to hide around the world, and tomorrow we'll all be reading and what it is and how much money it is on that Mauricia of Serbian citizens has been laid down, and I just hope that it will be one in a series of extensions, to see where it in the world Dragan Gilas is still, as well as his brother Gojko Gilas, don't forget that crime there was divided into two, and perhaps on the marine Tepic Tepic, because we still don't know where the 200 of the Serbians are the new citizens who are all the Croatians. It had to be that the big waker had exceeded, was too tight to keep all that money, so it had to open up some account on any Mauricias or in some Swiss tax paradise. So, today, Marinika Tepic, trying to do everything she can, in addition to last night's fire nonsense, causing panic among the citizens of Panchev, tried today and again in that intention to prove to us that she is the most active member of the criminal gang, that she is a co-worker of Veljak Belivuk and other mob circles, that she is one of those who is on the line and in contact with all the people from the MUP, who participated in the listening affair and the preparation of the assassination of Serbia's president. So, as the previous days very exclusively announced some kind of documentation, an internal documentation by the interior ministry saying there are parts of the talks between the president of Serbia and 1,572 of the listening talks, she was able to degrade twice. She first proved to us that she was working with those circles. The second time today, too, but what she's done today has really gone beyond what they've done so far. So she managed to prove that President Aleksandar Vukic, as has been said before and as Minister Vulin said in front of us here, did not have in all 1,572 conversations any incriminating conversation with any of the people who were convicted of any kind of crime. So, Marinika Tepic has outdone herself this time. I'm guessing she might be cut off for her next salary at Multicom. I suppose some kind of degradation will have to come from Dragan Gilas for this, say, inefficient performance of tasks. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of all the spins that can be heard these days at the expense of all of us, especially at the expense of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we also had an attack on Vladenko Malovic, the head of the Information Service, a member of the Serbian Progressive Party presidency, a monstrous attack and a monstrous threat that none of them, of course, condemned, nor we expect, but all of this as part of a hybrid war which, I say, is very specific to Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, spoke only in favour of the fact that the panic is indeed at the highest possible level and that the clock is slowly ticking. We are publicly speaking on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, I believe that you will allow me to say this, we publicly say that in this fight we are unwavering, that you will not scare us with any spins and nonsense, that you will never question our fight against crime, against the mafia and against all those who are members of the mob clans, circles and all those who have worked with such ones, that you will never hesitate us in our fight to provide for the citizens of Serbia a better, safe, economically strong and prosperous country in which you will raise your children. We also tell you that every day we will fight against criminals and thieves like Dragan Djilas and what Marinika Tepic is like. Our fight here will be sincere, because we know for sure that what they've been doing in the past 200 years of prison. I hope the judicial authorities respond. Again, I appeal to who knows which way is the part of what this group, this two, is practically done in the previous period, and in which way it participated, and now we see evidence that connects them to an affair of listening, that the prosecution is responding and that it examines where Marinika Tepic these incriminating papers are, these are statements, some official notes, in which way it is connected to the eavesdropping affair and how it relates to the mob group, to the drug clans, and we know in the history of their relationships that they have very, very intimate relations with criminals, drug dealers and murderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4024	Thank you, colleague Christmas. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4025	Thank you, esteemed chairman. The esteemed chairman, respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, climate change has long been an abstract topic for the general public and for a topic that did not interest the common man too much until these climate changes began to affect our daily lives. As you, Madam Minister, mentioned by your colleagues before me, climate change is all around us. This is what we see, for example, when somewhere in the middle of January in some cafe gardens we sunbathe and enjoy at 15, 20 degrees, and we don't think about how it's really not good, and it's something to worry about, because after that, it often happens to us that what we used to call 100-year rainfalls, that it happens too often, that after that we have too long, dry periods, which is very negatively affecting our agriculture, our economy, and we have heard today that there are different forecasts that by the end of this century, average temperatures will be increased maybe by four degrees, that the number of cold days will be such that it will, in fact, be rare, that, on the other hand, the number of dry days will be even higher and all these things are calling for one great caution and tell us that the question of climate change is very important, and that this is not a question of some distant future, but practically, the question of the near question of the future. I wouldn't go too far if I said it was a question of survival, and that's why I think this law is very important. What is the fundamental objective of this law and what the entire planet is really fighting for is the reduction of greenhouse gases, i.e. the reduction of carbon dioxide, which primarily occurs as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels, which absorbs that amount of heat from the earth should return to the atmosphere, or into space. Instead, this amount of heat is absorbed and returned and thus further increases the earth's temperature, and hence, it is causing all of these consequences that we were talking about today. When we talk about climate change, it's simply impossible to bypass a very current topic, and it's a matter of air quality. This topic is very current and in the city where I come from, the town of Cačka, and as we know, for decades during the winter months, there has been a problem with air quality, primarily because of the burning of environmentally unacceptable energy, and that is one topic that is very important, which should be spoken of. Unfortunately, however, it is a subject that more and more often, as well as many other topics, becomes a topic of political bickering and the need for a number of political options to be used on the subject, in the absence of some of their policies and their own ideas, to collect political points. And even so, we can hear some absurd statements about how air today in Serbia is far more polluted than before, which is completely contrary to common sense. We know that twenty years ago, that ecologically unacceptable elements, such as lube, coal or vine oil, were completely dominant, much more dominant than today, so I'm going to say so on the case of the city of Chačka. The town of Cačak has in the past few years turned out to be dozens of lukewarm boiler rooms and boiler rooms that used a lot of oil and coal, which were located in the narrow and wider city zone of the town of Cačka, and you can only imagine what kind of air today would have been if it hadn't been for that. And with some active action, we are very close to solving the issue of heating, when it comes to agri-technical college and machine-traffic school, and I can safely say that in 2022, the town of Cačak will not have an absolute single public facility that uses an environmentally unacceptable so-called heating facility. Dirty energy. I really think it's a big success and a very important thing. What people need to know is that it didn't happen overnight, but behind it is a multi-year work. This, of course, will not solve all the problems completely and these are not problems that can be solved in a short time, especially when we know that individual bars also participate in the quality of air in a high percentage. There I very much hope that the price of the gas connection will be drastically reduced, that it will motivate all individuals and individual consumers to take advantage of this possibility and that even in the future we have as many individual bars that will use natural gas. I also call on all citizens to take advantage of the subsidies given by local self-government and the Ministry of Energy, which, above all, are energy efficiency, because in this way we reduce losses, reduce energy waste and thus use less energy for heating. We also know that one of the significant influences on air quality is traffic and a large number of cars. What should be commended are subsidies for the purchase of electric cars, which will absolutely be highly represented in the future, but I think we should consider also how to put the import of older cars that do not meet environmental standards. Also, I think that this topic should not be a political issue, but above all, one question of life, and that we should at least agree on that, lately, that a lot seems to be doing to raise air quality, and that there is a great progress relative to some period of 10, 15 or 20 years ago, when, as I said, eco-acceptable fuels were dominant when it comes to heating, and that I'm not talking about some large factories, which we had in Chačka, which were spent on dozens and hundreds of tons of coal per day for heating. And what bothers me very much is some kind of creating atmosphere, and where big investments and big investments are kind of underestimated by our country. That's where I'd do the parallel, for example. with a question of vaccination. As is known, our country is one of the best, to say the best in Europe when it comes to vaccination, but somehow, we don't attach too much importance to it. Oh, that's for example. On the contrary, if there were vaccines in Europe, if we didn't have them, then that would be the main question, and then everyone would be looking for vaccines. I guess we're not used to being the best at something. Then I get more and more comments -- I don't want to vaccinate, there's still time. I think there's no time and we need to take advantage of that possibility that our country has managed to provide enough vaccines and make them safe, tested, because it's the only way to get back to normal life. It is a very similar situation when it comes to investment in the environment. You, a respected minister, have been to Chačka several times in the past few months. You recently signed a contract when it comes to the third phase of rehabilitation and re-cultivation of the non-sanitary dump. It's one space where there were 12 acres of garbage and garbage, and we're very close to making this place a big green oasis, a place where sports courts with floor heating will be built, a place that will have tons of very useful purposes, and it's about an investment where the state and the city have invested nearly two million euros. Not to mention how important the issue of wastewater treatment is not only in the town of Cačka, but in the entire West Morava Basin, as well as other rivers. These are huge investments, where people also need to know that nothing has fallen from the sky, but for years it has been working backwards, from providing funds for project documentation, to making project documentation, later providing funds for these very large investments measured hundreds of millions of euros, and all because the state has decided that it no longer wants to release waste water and feces into rivers without purification. I don't think there's really anything more important about our rivers and that it's a matter of life and sometimes it seems to me that people aren't aware enough how important and big things are. You, Madam Minister, were recently also in Ovcar Banja, along with Serbian Prime Minister and Minister Matic. Then you announced great investments in Ovcar Banja, which is the pearl of western Serbia, as we like to say, Serbia's Sveta Gora. That's what the citizens of Chačka can do. It's really huge investments. If I were to make a parallel with some previous period, especially during the former government, it's such a big difference that it's absolutely impossible to even compare the amount of investment not only in the area of the environment, but even in the town of Cachak. Another topic I'd like to mention in the end, it's not about climate change directly, but of course, it has to do with the environment, and it also concerns people's attitude to the environment, and somehow it seems to me that as a society, we don't have the best attitude towards the environment. It's probably a global problem, but we need to focus on what's going on in our country. Honestly, I think we need education when it comes to all categories of society, and I especially think that education is needed when it comes to children, and at the earliest age. I think it is necessary to inculcate children of small legs in order to understand the importance and importance of protecting the environment and to create an atmosphere in society so that anyone who unwittingly refers to the environment is placed on a pillar of shame. When I say that, I often remember a student oath since 1914, from the time of the Kingdom of Serbia, when students a hundred years ago swore that they would not destroy trees and flowers, that they would not throw garbage into the street, that they would take care of birds, of the environment. I think we need this again in Serbia, as I think we need a much more serious criminal policy, because we will agree, for example. that a large number of people use a safety belt in their driving because it's a safety issue. But we need to be realistic that, too, a large number of people do it to avoid punishment. Sometimes criminal policy, however unpopular, is very necessary. I think it's two things that are very important, because no matter how many laws we make and no matter how much money we invest as a country in this area, I think we're going to have a hard time preserving the environment if every individual doesn't understand their role and their importance in this purpose and if we don't work much more on education in the future, but also on punishing all those who don't care about the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4026	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4027	Thank you, Chairman. We are talking today about a very important law, the Law on Climate Change, which regulates and provides for a system of environmental protection. Climate change is one of the biggest global problems encountered by all mankind lately, resulting from human activities that result in emissions of harmful matter in the atmosphere, resulting in disturbances that occur in phenomena such as high heat, extremely strong showers, extreme droughts and heat shocks. Despite the fact that man is the only living being who has the ability to tame the forces of nature and use their energy for his own needs, he managed to disrupt the natural balance in the atmosphere, which led to the effect of the glass garden by increasing carbon dioxide content, which further led to an increase in the temperature on our planet. The discovery of the steam machine, due to the industrial revolution and the accelerated progress that has long been fuelled by fossil fuels, has seen a rise in temperature on our planet, resulting in numerous disturbances such as melting polar caps, rising sea levels, changing rainfall patterns, frequent weather disasters and increasing acidity of the ocean. The largest contaminants, i.e. SO2 gas emitters are energy, transport, agriculture and waste management, and the most vulnerable sectors are health, agriculture, forestry and water industry. The damage caused by climate change in Serbia has been estimated to be around 7,000,000,000 euros since 2000. Since this is a global problem, he needs global solutions. In this process, we should all be united and create green industry, environmental jobs, new opportunities for new investments, investment in new clean technologies and renewable sources from this problem. So anything that reduces the adverse impact on the planet. This is our duty, because we don't have another planet, and this one is the only one we have the right to destroy. We must save it for future generations. As I said at the outset, the main pollutants are energy, traffic, agriculture and waste management. These are areas where negative trends need to be slowed down and time-consumed. This is necessary because environmental forecasts and climate change are not at all great, given the current situation. The European Union has set itself the goal of becoming the first carbon-neutral continent, thus absorbing as much carbon dioxide as it emits. The very fact that we are talking about ecology here means that we have already made progress in this area and strengthened our consciousness so that we can deal with this topic and work to solve problems in this area. The Ministry of Environmental Protection in the fight against climate change has largely carried out many activities, and I will only count some of them: first, subsidising the purchase of hybrid and electric vehicles, therefore, electric vehicles. The ministry published three competitions envisioning 400,000 dinars to support local self-government, with the aim of reducing air pollution such as recovery and replacement of boilers, reducing air pollution from individual sources, co-financed shaming in order to protect and preserve biodiversity. Further, waste management, supporting local self-government in the resolution of wild dumps, as well as building regional waste management systems. I will, as always, look back at what is important for the end of where I come from, Bosilegrad in southern Serbia. Since our area is underdeveloped, there is no industry, there is no intensive traffic, and no agriculture, and happiness in such areas is that there are no major problems with local polluters. The end is mountain-mounted, and it's a large part under the woods, and when it comes to forests, I want to look back at the problems in that part. Forests in my area are invaluable resources, both in ecological and economic terms. Many remember, exploiting forests is the only source of income, and many survive on their hearths. The need for wood has been growing year after year, especially since the mass production of wood pellets began, and more and more has been cut. The process of shaming doesn't exactly follow the dynamics of cutting. It's cut more than it gets. A significant part of the wood mass remains in the forest because of the invaluability of transport and inaccessibility of the terrain. I would like to remind you that the last serious action of shaming in my neighborhood was 1985 at the time of the latest work actions under the slogan "On the Arms of blisters, in the hearts of Tito". Another major problem is the massively accelerated drying of the Cetinan forests, especially the forest of the white pine tree. This phenomenon lasts many years ago, and it is the result of climate change. As a result, all the moves, the endless hectares of the forest have dried up. These are also private forests and forests managed by the Public Enterprise "Serbia of the Forests". The cutting and cleaning of such dried forests is economically invaluable, so the tree remains in its habitat to rot and rot, and such moves grow into weeds and thorns and become unusable. That way, hectares are lost under the woods without the possibility of reforestation. Due to the massive and accelerated migration of the young and working-age population from our region, agricultural land remains unprocessed, no livestock is found in pastures, and such parcels grow now on such parcels, which were once fields of orania, boned meadows or pastures for the pasture of cattle, can't even be entered. It's all abandoned sparring plots that serve no one and no one. Therefore, it is necessary first to clean and prepare such terrains, to cleanse them of thorns and bushes, and then to forestify them. This isn't easy or simple at all. This should be put in place by local self-governments as a priority, with the help of the state. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, first, prepare the ground and then forest. This problem does not know the limits. The process of drying and the process of growing parcels is equally present in both our country and neighbouring Macedonia and Bulgaria, especially in the border belt. Therefore, perhaps assistance to address this problem should be sought in cross-border projects from EU funds, so that the whole south and southeast of Serbia is cleaned and forestified. Also, for the past 10 years, the more up-to-date story of rapidly growing tree varieties, so that we should work on raising forests from rapidly growing species, for which adequate conditions should be provided, at least at first, for the first few years, until such trees strengthen and develop their root system. As high as the price of all these activities is, it's all an investment in both forests, as a source of wood mass and in forests as clean air factories, because as the Chinese proverb says – the first best time to plant wood was 50 years ago, and the second best time is right now. That's why we need to move on to this business as soon as possible organised and committed, because forests are important today, and in the future it will be even more important. It is our duty to protect and cultivate them, because they are our green filters, our guardians of planet Earth. In the end, I stress that in the voting day I will support this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4028	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gojko Palalic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4029	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that every citizen has the right to a healthy environment, but that each of us is obliged to preserve and improve the same environment. However, when we talk about the protection of the environment, I cannot help but touch the age of Prince Mikhail Obrenovic, because forever in history it will remain written that the rights and obligations of the citizens in this particular area are established through the order of the Prince of Michael on the planting of trees in 1863, published in the list "Vidovdan", which among other things reads: "Everyone is obliged in front of his own place, shops and wages of wood to water and in good condition to keep the fence around them, and whoever does not obey the order will be punished by law and will pay the fine if the tree dies." It is this order that proves that the fight against climate change was fought in still unfree Serbia at the time. Although the goal of this command was then to embellish Belgrade's township, today we can freely conclude that this command still had a much higher goal. We should not be experts in climate science to detect extreme climate change compared to natural expectations. It's enough to open a window and we'll see climate change in action. It is a difficult task for all of us if we want the European continent to become carbon neutral by the end of 2050 and the warming to be kept at a temperature of 1.5 degrees. This is only possible through the reduction of gas emissions with the effect of "glass garden", which is one of the objectives of this bill, of course with the adaptation of unchanged climate conditions. In the previous period, the Republic of Serbia faced numerous climate disasters from floods, droughts, high temperatures that resulted in not only financial and material losses, but also loss of human lives. However, by adopting and implementing this law, we are above all fulfilling all our obligations towards the international community, but it is also important to note that this bill is fully in line with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Agreement, and the EU's legal assets. Today, however, I would especially like to highlight and commend the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because we are witnessing more and more frequent attacks, precisely on Minister Vujovic, because of some lapus made in presenting the results of the ministry's work in the previous period. They repeat again -- when presenting the ministry's work results in the previous period. Before 2012, we couldn't hear the laps, because the results in this area didn't exist. I am really glad that today, at the head of the Ministry of Environment Protection, there are no people like Oliver Dulic who, while headed the ministry, managed to clear the only state budget of the Republic of Serbia under the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. Under the same action to advertise on billboards under the tennis tournament, 500,000 euros were spent, and 25,000 euros were spent on web sites, 25 times the real value. Reminders for, this website had one web page and six links that didn't work at all. I am really glad that there are no people at the head of the ministry like the Dulic orthopedist, because it is the people who gave an assessment of such a policy in the elections and it is the people who cleaned Serbia out of these "yellow thieves". It is important when we talk today about the work of the Ministry of Environment Protection to highlight one action that is extremely important to me, it is an action that was carried out between January 11th and February 3rd. It's about cleaning up the Potpetz lake. Here in the picture we can see a picture of the lake before and after the cleaning. This, I think, is one of the key evidences of this ministry's work. The action was carried out, otherwise, by the public water company "Serbia" in co-operation with the EPS and during this action, 10,000 cubics of swimming waste were removed. This is exactly one of the key, I repeat again, evidence of the work of this ministry. However, although gases, i.e. contaminating substances that cause air pollution, start from carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, suspended PN10 and PN2.5 particles do not fall into gases that cause the effect of the ‘glass garden’. I think it is also important to highlight the fight against aero-pollution in the previous period, which has primarily been reflected through the modernisation of power plants and the transition to cleaner energy, the improvement of energy efficiency, but also the modernisation of traffic. When we talk about modernising power plants, it is important to highlight the construction of a deforestation facility within the “Nikola Tesla B” thermal power plant. The minister had a chance last year, it seems to me, in December, to attend the laying of the foundation stone for the construction of this detachment facility. The investment is worth 210m euros, and the goal is precisely to build this facility to reduce concentration, i.e. concentration levels of sulfur dioxide from 80,000 tonnes annually to four and a half thousand tonnes, a reduction of almost 20 times per year. By a regulation adopted in the previous period when it comes to subsidising the purchase of new vehicles on electric and hybrid engines, we contribute to increasing the number of environmental vehicles on our roads, but also to modernising traffic. I usually come from Novi Sad and I'm proud to say that the town of Novi Sad, through the Resorship Office for Environmental Protection, has defined the funds of eight million dinars to subsidize bicycle purchases. With this move, the town of Novi Sad became the first city in Serbia to subsidise bicycle purchases as an environmentally acceptable form of transport. The minister had the opportunity to visit together with Novi Sad Mayor Milos Vučević, a newly built main gas station in our city, which is one of the key preconditions for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant in the coming period, a facility that will be built along with the construction of an 80-90km water and sewerage network, and the value of this investment is 140m euros. Today, thanks to the conduct of responsible Serbian President Alexander Vukic's policy, we are able to realise all these projects that will certainly aim to improve the environment, but also to improve the quality of life of citizens. Given that we are still faced with the pandemic of the crown virus that has affected the whole world, Serbia can now boast that we are leaders in the region, one of the world's leading countries when it comes to the number of vaccinated citizens. However, the vaccine against climate change does not exist, so I call on all MPs to support this proposal for climate change legislation in the voting day, because it is the only way we can reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases, improve the situation in the area of environmental protection, because we are doing all of this not only because of our citizens today, but also because of generations that will come behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4030	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4031	Thank you, Chairman. I must express my satisfaction with the proposal for a law on climate change that will bring us even closer to EU standards, as well as meeting obligations towards the international community. The reduction in gas emissions will help Serbia be among the first Balkan countries to start applying it. Today's bill of law is extremely important because of a key nature relationship that certainly affects all of our planet's inhabitants. I think we all need to take small steps together to think that we need to change something. I would name the city of Gurgaon in India, which in 2019 was the most polluted city in the world. This city is a real metropolis where there are seats of the largest technological giants, such as Google, Microsoft, where people come from all over the world and from all parts of the country. Thus, the increase in the number of people living in that city due to jobs has led to massive environmental pollution, with 2.5 million people living in the city in 2010 and 4.5 million people living in 2019. As someone living in downtown Belgrade, I want to say that every city that has a large population and an increased population and a large number of companies, as well as our Belgrade faces certain environmental pollution. When we are in such a situation, we have to think differently and to change that, apart from helping the state, we have also applied certain standards for protecting the environment, when it comes to companies operating in our Serbia. In addition, we also need the help of individuals, i.e. citizens, because it is the easiest thing to criticise the state, but the most important thing, too, is that individuals also get involved to make significant changes. I sincerely want to commend our minister, who in a short time has managed to solve and seriously solve the problem of wild dumps where certain measures have been taken. The ministry's budget provides funds for the closure and rehabilitation of non-sanitary dumps in Cačka, Kraljev, Trstenik and other parts of Serbia. Eight new regional waste management centres will be built and built. A problem such as air pollution in Serbia, or its quality is not at an envious level, but it is a problem whose effects we can see if we all join together to solve it. In addition to setting up several measurement stations that have been in a smaller number so far, and the measurement of air pollution has not been measured, we have also provided subsidies to replace home boiler rooms, replacement boiler rooms in schools, kindergartens, health homes, which will greatly reduce the problem of aero pollution. Also, we continue our subsidies for purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles, and we plan to have projects to reforestation and greening of public areas. I would stress that it is our goal not to spend our natural resources, to seek and apply state-of-the-art technology to solve problems, since the problems we face are extremely complex, to require a certain time to realise them for the purpose of achieving the effects we apply and to require large financial resources. We have a problem facing the whole world, so Serbia is not the only country in the world, but the most important thing is that we are aware of the importance of preserving the environment because of us and our future generations. We are certainly not going to grumble, but we have already made significant efforts to improve the quality of life of our citizens and ourselves. In the end, I would end this speech with the quote of the famous Theodore Roosevelt – green is the basic color of the world, its beauty is born of it. The waste and destruction of our natural resources, depletion instead of increasing its usability, will already diminish our children's ability to make progress that we enjoy, which we owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4032	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4033	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister with fellow Members, it is my pleasure to have today's climate change law. Of course, we from the Socialist Movement will support him, because he is very important, and aside from some petty grudges that may not be so important and essential, which I am about to point out now, we are absolutely clear about the reason and we fully support these legal solutions that have been made. I personally think that it may have been more meaningful, because it is a roof law, that the law is not called a climate change law, but a law on measures to prevent climate change, because behind this law there are many laws that should practically allow for the full realization of what we are talking about today and we are discussing. In any event, with full respect for the reasons that you stated in the explanation of the proposal, when it concerns establishing a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as meeting the obligations to the International Community, or the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement. Personally, I have to say that I don't know what this third part applies to, which is something we use too often in legal proposals, which is to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law. Frankly, although I have finished my rights, I do not know what the EU's assets are, whether they are German, French legislation, their legal systems, or whether they are certain conclusions and views of a forced administration in Brussels. I don't want to tell the difference right now. What is important is that this law is very good and beneficial for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is a pity that such a law has not been passed many years before and before, because today we would probably live in a much better environment and environment than we have today. I must draw attention with respect, the attitude of my esteemed colleague, Parezanovic, who says this is not and should not be a matter of political and policy, however, unfortunately it is. I'm going to talk about one piece that directly concerns this law, and that's the EPS. We today have such an EPS hack that is nominated around if I really accept it without a reserve, what individuals say, completely unargumented or certain NGOs, turns out to have polluted the entire globe and now it's just a matter of survival on the globe, whether we're going to shut down the thermoelectrics or not, and it's going to be the salvation of the whole world. It's just not true. The fact is that there are climate change that we can influence, the fact that there are climate change that we can only adapt to or adapt to. What concerns me is that the world's largest, most powerful and most powerful polluters have no percentage of such a responsible approach to the environment, as the Republic of Serbia shows. When we manage to force these greatest, richest and most powerful to return, sincerely return Kyoto to the agreement and some other agreements that have been signed, and never to the end have been realized, then it will be much easier for all of us. We need to look here at a political aspect of this, which is not only political, but is state-of-the-art, because it threatens the Republic of Serbia. What would the Republic of Serbia gain by shutting down the thermal power plants and closing up the spears? It would simply be a complete blow to the state budget, to the Republic of Serbia, simply completely destroyed the electrical system of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia would become one serious addict to electricity imports, and not even technically everything, and if we had money for such a thing and there were serious reasons for such a thing, it is technically inconclusive, because the capacity for imports of electricity in that range of about 30 billion kilowatt hours does not exist. We have to ask ourselves if this reminds a little bit of one, perhaps of the appearance of a benign hickey that was being led a few years ago, which is against the cultivation of chinchillas in the Republic of Serbia. Does the hickey headed against the electricity industry today have the same pattern? The hajka against chinchilla cultivation in the Republic of Serbia has led to the failure to grow in Serbia, that several hundred families have lost their income, and that chinchillas are kept growing in Bulgaria, and that pumpkins produced from chinchillas are imported into Serbia. Whether the biggest part of these speakers and these hickeys are precisely lobbys, which corresponds to Serbia becoming dependent on electricity imports instead of a stable energy-profile country. We need to be aware that in Serbia about 30% of electricity is produced in hydropower plants, and that the basis of electricity generation, without which we wanted to admit it or not, today we are not able to live for even a few minutes without experiencing stress, that thermoelectrics produce 70% of electricity, of which half of them are power plants in Obrenovac. In the past, Serbia has been forced to pay a green electricity fee and to pay around 100m euros annually to producers from renewable sources of Serbia on behalf of the fidin tariffs. If those 100m euros were used to revitalise the plant in the Republic of Serbia, that earlier could have been launched, say, by the dereliction process, and all of that, we probably wouldn't have thought about these problems today. How insane the idea of shutting down power plants for the Republic of Serbia is, the fact that even a much more developed country that has, for example, been investing huge funds in so-called "Danska" for decades. Green energy. They are unable to produce 60% of the electricity for their own needs through these species, the rest of the electricity they buy, if I'm not mistaken, from French nuclear power plants. I seriously wonder if anyone in Europe has a serious excess of electricity that wants to place in the Republic of Serbia at an enormously high price. Of course, I don't even justify today's situation, which is much better than it was last year, and last year was much better than it was in 2012, because we simply can't be satisfied with what we've achieved so far, but it has to be progressed. But I seriously think that the ministry you run must give clear guidelines and specifics, not based on personal feelings, but based on good analysis, whether Serbia instead of paying these fine tariffs, that money at the risk of court disputes or anything else should invest in bringing in the acceptable state of the thermoelectric power plants that exist and are obviously irreplaceable in Serbia, because it seems to me that I am listening to some experts in the field of hydrology, who have said that practically, water, serious resources are almost exhausted in the Republic of Serbia. So, on this side, we can't expect any significant increase in electricity production. Not to mention what such closure would lead to uncontrollable thermal power plants or spears or whatever else in the Republic of Serbia, to job losses, how many families would run out of income, how much of the accompanying industry. This is something that we seriously need to take care of when we talk about and protect the environment, including climate change. I want to say that there is space, there is room to make serious progress, because one of the things that stood as the possibility of the 1990s, mentioned as some kind of almost certain option, is currently in realisation, which is that the “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant is starting to supply hot water and New Belgrade, which would put out many individual boilers. This is the way and methodology of how to reduce environmental pollution if, by the way, money savings are invested in cleaner air security, better storage of ash and deforestation that is under way, or preparing this facility in progress, then we would really achieve a lot of good results. Therefore, the stories of the shut down of the thermal power plants come from angles that do not want Serbia well. I ask you, like my colleagues, to take care of all the details when they speak on this subject, because we need to be aware of where we are, but aware of what we must do and how we will survive and survive. It's easy to say today – it needs to be put out, I want to breathe much cleaner and much healthier air. I agree, it's normal, it's a need and it's a wish and it's supposed to be. But the question is, do we have money for it? Is it just the ones who are raising the biggest hectare today that are supposed to be from the thermal power plants that are most important and important, are they willing to pay the price of electricity we would have to pay if we were to import it? We need to know that Belgrade pollutes much more individual boiler rooms than it is polluted by the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant Obrenovac. Thus, much is being discussed about the environment, but strength needs to be focused on the biggest problems. It is a great pleasure to find an opportunity and start from one environment in which it can be resolved with relatively acceptable means, such as Koseric, but we also expect that in order to solve the biggest problems, this will continue when Belgrade is concerned. Could raising gas power plants be an option and a combination of thermal power plants? I personally don't think so, because when everything is put on paper, the cost of producing electricity from gas is not something Serbia can accept at the moment. Therefore, the fight for a healthy environment, the fight for better climate conditions, is ahead for us all, and it really needs to come out of the political frameworks. It must become clear that it is a question of the future of all those living in the Republic of Serbia, not of daily political needs, and that such things are being resolved in the long term, not of ad hoc from the situation to the situation as some new idea comes or goes. Exactly the way it's been working since 2012, where very systematically the Republic of Serbia has been put on its feet as a state, in every respect, from economic, military, now is the moment that, through the stabilisation of the electricity system, its modernisation, investment in Serbia's electricity system and its adaptation to the conditions needed to breathe cleaner air, without creating space to make it possible for those who seek only their own interests, is something that is on your ministry and you will have our full support in every way, because we see that already through the preparation of this law will be very, very seriously working on it. I repeat, we will vote in favour of this law, we will support you and expect your ministry which has proved to be one of the most valuable ministries and the most pressing soon before this assembly and the laws that follow this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4034	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Minister Irena Vujovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4035	Dear People's MP, I will certainly look back on the whole debate later, which is really constructive and thank you all for that, but I will underline that later, when we hear all the comments, suggestions and advice. What I have to point out right now, when we talk about the law, in an extremely important way and an aspect, is that I have to underline that the law does not foresee the closure of the thermal power plants, but exclusively monitoring, defining the measures that will affect the reduction of the effects of the glass garden, so from large plants. And that's what we all have to insist on together and bring it closer to the citizens. Therefore, the law does not foresee the closure of large plants and any other energy plants. I must point out that, right now, and by working on this law, we have stepped up co-operation with the Ministry of Mining and Energy and an agreement has been signed between the two ministries, in order to cooperate closely, in order to make our co-operation more intense, precisely because of the large polluters in the sector. Thank you again for all the suggestions, and I'll go through the others you've given, which are certainly useful, and we'll follow the law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4036	Thank you. Mr. Komlensky, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4037	I'll be less than two minutes. I thank you for this answer and explanation, and I sincerely hoped for this answer, so that we could simply let those who are trying to get this law out of place in a context where it is not a place. We clearly say that they are not trying, because it will have no purpose, when I talk about thermal power plants, about the energy system of the Republic of Serbia, but not only them, but also concerned citizens of the Republic of Serbia who live off electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4038	Thank you. Next on the application for the word "species of Adriana Pupovac." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4039	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. A respected minister with associates, respected MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that previous speakers have explained and brought our citizens closer to the Climate Change Act, I would refer to the importance of the law not only for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also for the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which are two key resolution ministries for the centre of the Bor district, which I come from, but also for the municipalities of Negotin, Majdanpek and Kladovo. On the inter-minister importance of the Climate Change Act, the following can be presented. It was an honor, but also a pleasure, to attend the presentation of the Energy Community Secretariat's Annual Report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in implementing energy regulations, whose exhibitor was just the director of the Energy Community Secretariat, Mr. Janez Kopač. A series of obligations taken over by the parties, their competences, acts and measures they can bring, as well as the main objectives of the Energy Community Treaty were shown. What is important to state is that the structure of the implementation indicators and the weighted values of them show that, in addition to the environment and regulatory institutions, significant roles are currently being played by climate change. After talks with our President, Aleksandar Vukic, Energy and Mining Minister, Mr Kopač himself said he believes the next report will be explicitly better. Faced with the fact that the Republic of Serbia should be appalled by certain requirements, but also by deadlines, because it does not have access to certain funds, such as members, or EU countries, but that it has a good will and system approach, consistent with the priorities and financial resources it has available, it has offered assistance to the Energy Community in implementing the European directives, noting that the success of the members is also the success of the Energy Community in general. I must also apostrophe that by applying the Climate Change Act, it will not lead to direct costs per citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the objectives to be achieved by this law, which are set in the interest of preserving the health of citizens and the environment in general, but also increasing the competitiveness of the economy, the positive effects of the adoption of this law justify the costs of its application. This results in my belief that the Ministry of Mining and Energy, as well as the Ministry of Environmental Protection, will show responsibility, respond adequately and overcome all problems in achieving the objectives set, as well as support for the distinguished Minister, Ms. Irene Vujovic, the environment minister. Out of all things, in the day of voting, the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for what is most sacred to us, For our children, by supporting and voting such an important law will help to implement further decisions, by approaching the opening of Chapter 27 and by integrating the energy market of the Republic of Serbia into the European market. So in the voting day, I will proudly support today's bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4040	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4041	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of Dr Orlic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about a very important law, about a new law, a framework law called the Law on Climate Change. With this law, we define very important elements of environmental protection for the first time in our legislation, in our positive law, and this law is also very important because this law is going to make one step forward, we will contribute to our Eurointegration, in particular Chapter 27, when it comes to the European Union's liquids, or so on. ‘aki Communitre’. The impact of climate change must not be ignored, numerous droughts, floods, heat waves, fires, all destroy the economy, regardless of whether it is Serbia, the region, Europe or another continent. These negative effects are not only devastating by economy, but also by citizens' health, and citizens' health is the most important. How does these climate change occur? They're mostly caused by a human factor. Geography and science are on one side, it is clear that this is one normal flow, but when a human factor participates, especially when powerful world powers and European states use dirty technologies, this way there is further pollution and damage to the entire environment and to our entire biodiversity. This occurs, due to gas emissions, such as CO2, NO2, as well as partial PN10 or PN2.5 particles, which are transmitted into the atmosphere. It's very harmful, and it comes to this, because these heavy industries use polluting fossil fuels and they burn them, in their production plants, to make a profit and it's all connected, cyclically. It is estimated that the damage in Serbia is approximately seven billion euros, from 2000 to today, about seven billion euros, that we are not just talking about the damage in the health of our citizens. So it is important that we all act as one, that we are all united in this fight and that we are politicians, citizens, NGOs, associations of citizens, scientific research centres, institutes, institutions, farmers, businessmen, as well as universities and universities. It is important that we all be together, that we have one goal, and that is to fight these climate change effects, that is to say, against the negative effects of climate change. It is important to remove all the consequences that have arisen and that destroy our biodiversity. Serbia has one strong response, and Serbia is part of the UN framework agreement on climate change, as well as its 2017 agreement in Paris, we also respect Kyoto protocol, but also the Doh amendment to the Kyoto protocol. What is important is that this law, a new framework law on climate change, will provide for the adoption of a number of sublegal acts over the next two years, in order to specify certain steps, i.e. certain mechanisms in the fight for a healthier environment. First of all, it is the creation of a low-carbon strategy, with an action plan, for the strategy, and also the creation of a programme of adaptation to these climate change, where the plan is to map, i.e. identify the impact of climate change on certain environments and find concrete mechanisms, or steps, to eliminate negative consequences. Also announced is the formation, i.e. the establishment of one body, the National Council for Climate Change, as one component of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Another key benefit, this law is that when we implement all necessary reforms in this field, we will have positive effects, and by our GDP, it will constantly grow, resulting in the creation of new, green jobs, as well as the creation of new businesses. Another important thing is to develop our consciousness, or this law, our citizens will be better, much better acquainted with the negative effects of climate change, and we will know that we appreciate and protect our environment in a much better way. Consciousness is the most important, the consciousness of the citizens. When we talk about concrete results, which we have achieved over the past period, I would like to commend here our Ministry of Environmental Protection, with dear Minister Irena Vujovic, headed also by our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister of the Government, as well as our President Aleksandr Vucic, because without them we would not have achieved the following results. I'm not gonna talk about all the results, there's a lot of them, I want my colleagues and colleagues to talk today, so I'm not gonna take up travel time, but I'm just gonna give you some key results that we've achieved. One of the most important results, of course, is that we brought in at the end of the year, a new subsidy, for the purchase of vehicles, with an electric engine, but also on a hybrid drive, which will further encourage our citizens to buy these more environmentally acceptable vehicles. Also, three public competitions have been called, helping local self-governments to fight these negative effects of climate change to a certain amount of 400 million dinars. Two hundred million dinars for the removal, or reconstruction of heating boilers, 100 million dinars for the deforestation and 100 million dinars for the removal of individual sheds. The successful examples of this competition are certainly Kosjerić and Kragujevac where the project of shaming will be implemented, and most importantly their city heat will move from the mule to the more environmentally acceptable gas. The environment ministry has mapped some 88 units of local self-government where the problem of dumps, not sanitary dumps, has been recognised. We have specifically closed the Sanjevina sanitary dump near Prepolje but we have cleaned the Potpečko lake as well. It's a very important result. Also, money was allocated for the transfer of stations to Novi Varoša and Književec for the recycling of not the sanitary dump in Čačka and Trstenik, as well as for the expansion to the regional centre in Užica, as well as for the construction of a new hall for secondary waste separation in the framework of a regional dump in Piroth. The plan is to build eight new regional waste management centres in some 30 units of local self-government, all in co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development worth 100m euros. These are the following centers: Sombor, Nova Varoš, Pirot, Požarec, Užice, Sremska Mitrovica, Valjevo and Indjija. With the same bank and also with the Office for Public Investments in the Republic of Serbia, negotiations are under way for an additional two hundred million euros to build a sewage network in 28 municipalities in Serbia, as well as to reconstruct or build new wastewater treatment centres in our local self-governments. Speaking of Belgrade, the most significant project is certainly the Belgrade Metro. At the end of this year, construction of the Belgrade Metro in Makisha begins, which is very important to me since I come from Chukarica. That's what we'll do in collaboration with French and Chinese experts, that is, in cooperation with their companies. It is important to point out, while we are at Belgrade, when it comes to air quality, because there is a lot of talk about it, I ask the citizens to monitor only the official data. Official data is from the Beoeko website and from the Environment Protection Agency because it uses that scientific methodology. As we know, there are a number of private companies that publish all kinds of data on their websites. Some of them simply do not deliberately select certain stations where they have their own meters, so they represent the result as such while again on the other hand, some companies deliberately spin some results by making and bringing Belgrade's citizens into one delusion. The delusion that the situation is worse, and in fact the situation is certainly not so, but only in certain places, at certain stations. But these two sites provide the most accurate data. Speaking of this data spin, generally about spinning in the political sphere, let's look at what Dragan Gilas and his company are doing, his yellow tycoon click. Mr. Dragan Gilas is someone who is constantly criticizing us, let's leave aside that he is taking some information, but he is the most insulting of our colleagues in parliament, our minister, our members of the SNS presidency, insulting our prime minister, the insult of President Alexander Vukic and his family, he and his yellow tycoon octopus, that so-called. Gicky's clicking. They do the most terrible things. Ladies and gentlemen, these people have devoted their entire political opus to obtaining enormous wealth at the expense of our citizens, at the expense of the Belgraders. Dragan Gilas, as we know, has also earned his companies 619m euros. We recently learned one thing, that he has bills not only here in Serbia, but he has accounts in Switzerland as well as his firm, has accounts in Mauritius. Come on, as an ordinary citizen, let me ask myself, and all of us here to ask ourselves, why would anyone have an account in Mauritius? As we know, this is an off-shore destination, so-called "tax whoa" or tax haven. What would happen to some honest man who works here in Serbia, who does, what does he need with a bill on Mauritius? Why do you do that? Please explain that to me. Imagine that Dragan Djilas is currently head of Belgrade or the head of Serbia, as well as those of his peytos, Jeremic, Obradovic, Tadic, Alexic, imagine that they are ministers today, what place would we win when it comes to ranking in terms of vaccination? As we know, Serbia is an absolute champion. On average, in the last few weeks, we are top three in the European Union, more precisely in the space of the whole of Europe, and when it comes to the whole world, we are in the top 10 countries. A small Serbia has achieved such a significant result. Imagine if they were in power right now, what do you think we'd be in top three or top five. I think we would, but from the back. You know, when you turn the list then we'd certainly be top five, maybe I'm too mild, top three, if you didn't win first place, but from the back of dear Serbian citizens. I must refer to the recent visits of our President Alexander Vukic to the friendly countries of the United Arab Emirates and the Kingdom of Bahrain. When I'm talking about these visits, we have to keep one thing in mind, let's put aside all that we have agreed there, let's leave aside one magnificent welcome that has been given to our President Alexander Vukic, such a welcome is being held only by those presidents of the world's largest caliber, the world's true statesmen, Alexander Vukic is a politician of the world's call, and he's earned it, but let's leave it aside, let's put that agreement aside here with Manama, or with Bahrain where we're going to open up, most likely at the end of this year the embassy, and they'll, in accordance with the rule of reciprocity, open the embassy here in Belgrade, let's put it aside, let's just focus on the people's behalf of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's a great result. We recently also agreed with the Russian Federation to open the plant at our Institute “Torak” for the production of the vaccine “Sputnik V”. This means that one small Serbia, not only will have enough vaccines for itself, for its citizens, but we will have so many vaccines, is projected to be produced monthly, we will have enough vaccines to supply the entire region, if not many European Union countries. That's one hell of a score. This is an indicator of one successful policy by the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, all thanks to the work of Aleksandr Vukic, thanks to his sacrifice, his efforts, his efforts. Long live Alexander Vukic, lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4042	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4043	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected Minister Vujovic with associates, respected citizens and citizens, we are today discussing in this high House the proposal for a law on climate change, a strategically important law. It is doubtless that climate change in the world is becoming more complex and complex and that the Climate Change Act should create conditions for cleaner industry, for an ecological economy that consumes less energy, for a healthy environment and for better health for citizens and citizens of Serbia. The proposal for the Climate Change Act should enable our economy to finally adapt to the new type of emission limits of greenhouse gases, so that it can be more competitive on the international market. This is certainly also an opportunity for new innovations and for modernisation not only in the environmental protection sector, but also in the sector of agriculture, transport, energy. The proposal for this law shows that Serbia fulfils its international obligations, when I say, above all, I am referring to the Paris Agreement. This bill shows Serbia's readiness to open new markets to our economies and this bill makes a contribution to reducing losses and damages due to natural disasters and natural disasters. I think that in the next period immediately after the adoption of this law, we will see the effects on the reduction of losses and damage due to the elemental disasters. What does this law do? In my opinion, a few important things. First of all, it creates conditions to reduce the impact of man on climate change, and climate change on economic social development through monitoring, reporting and verification of activities, which is one basis for planning and development. This law also regulates the obligation to develop a strategy for low-calorie development and the Action Plan, regulates licences for GHG gasses, there will indeed be no more tolerance, we need to run a register that will be in the jurisdiction of the Environment Protection Agency and this law regulates the establishment of a National Climate Change Council and much more. It is doubtless that Serbia will be exposed to droughts and floods in the coming period, I only want to remind us all of the May 2014 floods, which have been the largest floods in the last 120 years, and which have caused economic damage that year at 5% of Serbia's GDP. How devastating the world's losses in GDP fall due to climate change are known and the data is alarming, and I'm only going to bring up a few of these data. In the period between 2020 and 2040, when the temperature rise is only 1%, the GDP reduction will be 1.20%, between 2040 and 2100 years 4,74%. As the world temperature rises by 2%, between 2020 and 2040, the world's GDP drop will be 4.53% and 10.2% between 2040 and 2100. Given this data that several important challenges lie ahead in the next period when it comes to protecting the environment, it would first and foremost highlight the quality and availability of information, then, a clear definition of competence and setting priorities, completing the strategic legal framework, the stability of the financial system over the next few years for a complete solution to all environmental problems is foreseen for Serbia for 15 billion euros, it is huge money. I think that no country in the EU could solve this issue just from the budget, but also how they were available for their use of EU funds, I think that in the coming period we need further capacity building at all levels, which the Ministry of Environment sees, and, of course, bringing the topic of the environment down to the local, action plans, problem detection and the path to address it. Several colleagues also mentioned education, permanent education, raising awareness of environmental protection and inspection. In my opinion, for the whole environmental protection process in Serbia, the future negotiation process is important. In my opinion, it will depend on a new methodology, on a cluster approach, on the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress, but also on the implementation of the Green Agenda, which is important for our region and which was signed on 10 November last year, and whose implementation the European Commission has singled out nine billion euros. Certainly, economic stability in Serbia is a condition for investing in environmental protection, and I would have partly agreed with those critics who say that in the period since the SNS was in power, since 2012, more could be done. Yes, in part, I would agree with their findings, but I have to remind them that in 2012, first, we had to save the country from bankruptcy, so we had to open new factories, new jobs, invest in Serbia's infrastructure. The budget for the Ministry of Environmental Protection is growing year after year. So in 2018, it was 5.8 billion dinars, in 2019 it was 6.2 billion dinars, in 2020 it was 7.9 billion dinars, and in 2021 it was 8.3 billion. I think you've done a lot of things for a short time as the Department of Environmental Protection. You're doing this transparently, and I'd say you're setting standards on how environmental protection issues should be addressed, and we could see that yesterday when there was a fire in Pancheva and the other day when you signed an important contract in Koserić to replace the boiler room and a lot of what was going on and, too, when the fire in Kovin occurred. So, you work very transparently, you go to encounter problems. Exactly as the Ministry, you specify what needs to be done and what time. So I'm saying it's very important, because you're setting standards for how things and problems in environmental protection should be solved. When it comes to the investments you've started so far, I'd only single out a few, in my opinion, very important. It is an investment of 100m euros in recycling, including 30 units of local self-government, 200m euros in the construction of 28 plants. In 28 local self-government based on this investment alone, 70% of the sewerage will be resolved. Then, a competition for removing non-sanitary dumps, environmental vehicles, measures set to measure air in key places in Belgrade. When it comes to the city of Belgrade, I must point out that solving the Vinca dump and building sewers on the left bank of the Danube, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, would somehow put environmental issues in some special epilogue. I think it's two key things for the city of Belgrade and it's very important that we get the exact information when these two things are going to be solved. I must also point out that the Green Parliamentary Group, as an informal group dealing with environmental protection issues, has submitted several amendments to a large number of MPs and MPs from all MPs. I think that as the Green Parliament Group, we are focused on updating the topic of environmental protection and sustainable development. We want these topics to be found and given priority in deciding in this high house. In the end, I want to point out that Serbia is very good at fighting the pandemic of the virus, that we keep all our economic parameters stable, that in the coming period we will especially fight crime and corruption, especially those who abuse their position, who have made unauthorized wealth and who have taken their bills and money to accounts, as far as we now hear, in Mauritius and Switzerland. They're still not responding to all that. I believe that the prosecutor's office will raise the issue in the coming period of all these people who have been burdening us with lies and fraud for years, hiding behind the lack of elections, and robbed Serbian citizens while they were in power. In the day of the vote, as well as my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4044	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4045	I thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have a very important law on climate change, which, as my colleagues said, is an important step in further improving our environment, but also strengthening our economy. We're all aware that the climate on planet Earth is changing, that they're not even the season they were. We know that, on the one hand, we have a scientific explanation by our famous scientist Milutin Milankovic, who otherwise dealt with this problem, and on the other hand, it is also a conscious influence of the people themselves, i.e. industrialization and other processes. This law will make sure that as a non-small country, which is important in the world, we contribute to dealing with climate change and that we can continue to develop, so that we do not harm our environment. The colleagues and colleagues have, by the way, pointed out that the climate change that is taking place has led to more frequent occurrences of weather disasters, which, unfortunately, have a adverse effect on the health system, but also affecting the agriculture, forestry and water industry sector, and overall, when we look at it affecting the GDP of any economy, or the potential that this economy has, perhaps, cannot be fully realised. That is why this law is very important, because it will give basic steps and guidelines that, in the coming period, through the development of concrete strategies and action plans and the identification of funds, will target steps to reduce, above all, the concentration of harmful particles in the air that affect this famous greenhouse effect, which, unfortunately, has a harmful impact on our economy. What's important to say is that the goal we want to achieve is to reduce that percentage of harmful particles by 9.8% compared to the values that were from the 1990s in the period up to 2030. We also take important steps in this law when it comes to the EU accession process, especially when we talk about this Chapter 27, which today, as we know, belongs to a cluster of chapters to be negotiated in the next period. Otherwise, as the distinguished minister said, since 2012, since the Serbian Progressive Party came to power, we have first dealt with important reforms to strengthen our economy, strengthen our finances and create conditions that we can adequately and in the right way fight for environmental protection and environmental issues, not only to fight with words or some documents. For the sake of citizens, I will say that the predecessors, i.e. this yellow government, brought in the 2011 National Programme for Environmental Protection. Also, in 2010, they brought in a strategic document – the National Strategy for environmental approximation, where they otherwise dealt with issues of the system of trade in GHG particles. Otherwise, it's a subject we'll be dealing with anyway. It's not concrete in this law. This is something that will be done in the next process in order to join the EU for reasons why we want to protect our energy sector, i.e. to make it stable. That's what we're going to do at the moment when it's for both our economy and our economy most conveniently, so that we don't affect the slowdown of its further growth. As I said, in the next period, it means up to two years, with the development of these strategies and action plans, we will also have concrete steps, concrete measures that will be taken to achieve these objectives. What is extremely commendable is that the law covers an important segment, which is a segment of monitoring, i.e. monitoring what the current situation is about the environment, when it comes to air pollution, because that's something that the predecessors haven't worked on, they haven't even invested the means to set up these measurement stations, to function, but it's something that will work in the coming period, because for these needs now, following successful reforms, which President Aleksandar Vukic, as prime minister, launched and implemented, we have these funds. So what's very important is that the existing cells will be improved, in the environments where they don't exist, cells will be set up. In this way data will be collected continuously, because as we know, we will talk about it at tomorrow's session, statistics are very important when making any decisions, because when you have the right ones, when you have quality data and data in real time, you can make quality decisions and the right ones that will have the best effects when it comes to fighting for a healthy environment. So we will no longer allow ourselves to face false news, with false information, with unverified programs or applications, where we will not listen to any parameters or indicators of air pollution, that a good part of them are not even checked, and in particular we will not listen to those who claim to fight for environmental protection, and for the first 20 years alone, they cannot finish colleges, and in the period when they have had the opportunity to fight, so we see the results, we have not fought again in 2014, unfortunately, we have faced the effects of their struggle when we, behold, we have had to fight with a huge weather disaster. Otherwise, my colleagues have mentioned a lot and what your Ministry has done in this period and what you will do. As a man who comes from Kruševec, I would like to point out that during the previous period of both SNS and many locals, we have worked on environmental protection, so clean, right, an opportunity to praise what has been done in Kruševec, which is, above all, that we have built a waste water treatment plant in the previous period, which is one of the most modern factories and purposes in the region, which is financed by KFW Bank and the value of the entire investment is 23 million 846 thousand euros. I want to say that together with this is a covered sewerage network, which is a 63km system in the territory of the town of Kruševec, which certainly provided conditions to protect our environment and this factory is working successfully today. Or, let me say, this factory specifically covers 90,000 people of the town of Kruševec. Also, this is an important condition and in the next period will be working on resolving the issue of the river Blatašnica, by working together with the municipalities of Brus and Blace on the construction of factories that will cleanse that water and into the lake of Celija, which is otherwise the source of drinking water for locals Kruševac and the Municipality of Varvarin, Cicevic, to get quality drinking water. Otherwise, I just want to say that this project, specifically when we talk about Kruševec, is evidence of SNS' intention, headed by Alexander Vukic, that it really is an election to protect the environment, because otherwise, the wastewater treatment plant in Kruševec is an idea from the 1990s, which unfortunately abandoned due to the situation in which the country was found, and the same yellow mangoons, who today are mindful of protecting the environment, how they are great environmentalists, nature fighters, in the period when they were in power in Kruševec, did not even bother to have that location, which was otherwise defined, where there were already certain objects that were built, continue to be realized. Also, I would mention that the municipality of Trstenik, thanks to your ministry, has received about 37 million dinars, when it comes to their dump in Sanica, which will become sanitary, and this project is very important, when it comes to the municipality of Trstenik, for the protection of the environment. Also, I would like to point out, given that your Ministry will help to solve the problem of boilers, that in Kruševec, thanks to the initiative, former Mayor Bratislav Gasic and the great support of Alexander Vukic and of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have solved the long-term problem of our heat, by being remounted boilers and today Kruševac, next to coal boilers, has two gas boilers, which we are actually working on protecting the environment in Kruševec, while the same members of the former yellow regime, that is, today whatever uniforms and symbols we wear, release various false information, as well as 600 million dinars are invested in it, that these boiler girls, etc., which is absolutely not true. The boilers are working successfully, which is on the case. And two gas boilers work. I would mention their work as it was, at the time they ruled Krusevc, spent 2.5m euros for the purchase of two gas boilers that haven't worked in three months. So much for their expertise, and I'm not going to get into what kind of abnormal conditions they're in charge of getting those boilers, which are, like, somewhere in the warehouse afterwards, standing in a cruise heat. Also, Kruševac plans a deforestation project in the coming period. What is really, to say, a wonderful initiative that local self-government will launch, which is that 650 years from the establishment of the town of Kruševec, which will be marked on Vidovdan this year, plant 650 trees on the entire territory of the town of Kruševec. There, this symbolic, something self-initiative that we're going to do with our friends. I am sure that this project will be further developed with the help of your Ministry and will surely support us to continue the process of forestaging the territory of the town of Kruševec. What I would also point out, which your colleagues may not have said, when it comes to your ministry, is that you will allocate funds, if I am not mistaken, in the amount of 100m euros, where eight regional recycling and waste collection centres will be built in eight regions, which will solve a major problem in 30 local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to waste. Is this a bit broader than climate change, but climate change is what we're fighting for, are important for environmental protection. I'm sure by voting this law we're making another small but significant step to make our environment healthier, to turn our economy into a green economy. And certainly, in collaboration with other ministries, since this law is something that will help all sectors affected by climate change deal successfully with it, contribute to the development of our economy in the coming period and to climate-related neuterity, or not to contribute to further climate change other than those that we cannot objectively influence. So, together with colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, in the day of voting I will gladly support this law, because this law is writing a new history in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4046	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Mirela Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4047	The Honorable chairman, respected MPs, respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia, as well as the world, are increasingly marked climate change most often manifested through extreme weather, such as floods and droughts. We are all aware of the negative effects of these phenomena in Serbia itself, of which the most affected sectors are agriculture, forestry and water industry. For this reason, an organised action by the entire society, the state, units of local self-government, non-governmental sectors, businesses and citizens is necessary. By adopting the Climate Change Act, the Republic of Serbia is now systematically dealing with a decades-old problem that previous authorities have ignored for the first time. At the same time, we will draw closer to the EU and contribute to a global fight against climate change and a healthier life for all Serbian citizens. It's a chance for development, for the emergence of new jobs, for new businesses. The Climate Change Act is a roof law, systemically important, one of the most important laws Serbia will adopt, as it implies a set of measures and EU standards to be applied and reached to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions. In this way, we will show that the environment is the value of society and future generations. We are witnessing that the state, headed by President Alexander Vukic, has continued to develop in these difficult times. In addition to a stable economy, the construction of hospitals, investment in infrastructure, economy and agriculture, we continue to fight for better and healthier Serbia. I cannot help but mention the SNS's commitment to the even development of all parts of our Serbia. It is necessary to highlight the very important projects that are of immense importance for all municipalities, including the municipality of Lapovo, from which I come, which is to build a wastewater treatment plant, increase energy efficiency, drilling projects and the recovery of wild dumps. The Ministry of Environmental Protection approved a subsidy for the purchase of electric vehicles. Also, through competitions, the ministry has given support to local self-governments to realise projects aimed at reducing air pollution. The plan is to build eight regional waste management centres. City heats in Koserić and Kragujevac will be connected to gas, while 100,000 dinars are separated for shaming, while 200,000 dinars for the purchase of new heating boilers. Waste water treatment plants and sewerage networks will be built into 28 municipalities. While the self-called opposition headed by Dragan Gilas daily struggles to systematically disrupt Serbia, we from the Serbian Progressive Party are fighting for a better future for our children and our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4048	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4049	The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Vujovic, respected Mrs Tanaskovic, respected Madam Minister of State, of course, will talk about the Law on Climate Change. It is absolutely necessary to pass such a law and such laws are necessary in all countries of the world. It's a question of global survival. I carefully studied this law, given that it has about 70 pages, it wasn't difficult and I realize it's really remarkable. The previous authorities were absolutely able to pass this law by 2012, but apparently they had neither the strength nor the will. I mean, it's interesting that this so-called. The pro-European elite didn't give five pairs to environmental science, nor to the adoption of this law. That so-called. The elite did not launch a solution to the problem of dumps or spilling fecal waters into rivers. That's the problem we've set in motion and we're solving it and it's going to be solved in the coming years, we're so-called. "Creeth sandwichers" as he calls us, the scum of the elite. The elite polluted Serbia with its robberies, polluted Serbia's finances, and the head of the so-called. The elite stole and washed only 619,000,000 euros. Then, Serbian citizens caused positive political climate changes and sent the so-called. the elite in the garbage dump. Today, that so-called. The elite pollutes public space, spreads uncleanness of hate, violence, hanging and rape, and so is a known member of that so-called Gilas. The other day, Ivan V. Krstic announced the return of the climate of Nazism when so-called The elite returned to power and told Vladanka Malovic, the head of the Information Service of our party that they would cut her head off just as the Nazis did in the concentration camps. It was an eight-mart's card to all women of Serbia. It's their atmosphere and it's the climate they're creating. Now let me go back, of course. At global level, the adoption, I said, of laws like this everywhere in the world means the possibility of survival of humanity in conditions similar to this civilization. Of course, civilization will change. So that only applies to this century. I will stress that carbon dioxide emissions are even more dangerous when viewed cumulatively in the context of other harmful gases and pollution, of course and matter in the air, water pollution, soil pollution, inadequate waste disposal and harmful substances, artificial radiation, harmful technologies, destruction of the living world, i.e. Extermination of living species, the development of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and wars. And what is important, this is another one other than all the preconditions and other than the preconditions of the human, human and civilization that this law adopts and the preconditions that the EU requires, as we see European norms, are positive. So what's still very good, it's that this law will raise the ecological awareness in our country to a higher level. What we know is that we are absolutely the cause of climate change on this planet. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels have increased by more than 30%, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are higher than ever in the last 800,000 years and 20 warmest years in the history of this civilization that we know has been recorded in the last 22 years. Scientists warn that if the current heat trend continues, temperatures could rise by three to five degrees by the end of the century, indicating both the data and the projections for Serbia. So, let me say, it's a scientific popular piece, a great book about how much heat it's called "Six degrees", that's this book, Mark Lyons. The author pointed out and summed up hundreds of scientific papers and described six scenarios, one for each degree of warming. For the record, we are currently in that period when we go to the second degree of warming from the one we know before the industrial revolution. So, according to this book, and by other scientists, the warming of this planet from over three degrees leads to the collapse of civilization as we now know it. This planet knows the conditions warmer by three degrees. It was three million years ago in a time of plioce and then our ancestors, they were Australians, they started walking on two legs, and there's that famous Lucy skeleton that was found in Ethiopia. But in the future world, warmer by three to four degrees, the raging wars for resources, for water, for food, and before that, it has already begun, the start of climate migrations of unprecedented proportions, will be emptyed out entire climate areas, the rabies of unimaginable storms, floods, droughts, fires, tidal waves and other natural disasters, and in the negative utopia of the world, it is a cataclysmic utopia, warmer by six degrees, we will walk again on all four. In the near future, the poor countries will suffer the most, less equipped to cope with rapid changes, and thanks to our President, Alexander Vukic, our country is not among them. The World Health Organization has warned that hundreds of millions of people can be at risk of health in the future due to higher frequency of existing and new infectious diseases. The great danger threatens the so-called melting. Permaphrost in Siberia and Canada. It's just that this law is because of everything that I'm talking about is very important. As for Serbia, it is important to say that the total amount of material damage was caused by climate change between 2000 and 2015. So I mentioned the issue of migration, there will be population migration to Europe, caused by already now and climate change in the Middle East, the Middle East and normal in Africa, not just by wars and poverty. We have to prepare for that. The destruction of the natural habitats of the living world will bring us, as I have already mentioned, new diseases. As we know, this virus currently, the new Corona virus, has come from subtropic forests where accelerated habitat changes are present. Also, the great danger lurks from the growing seas. Scientists said that by 2100, the sea level would rise by at least 60 centimeters by the most optimistic prognosis. The melting of only ice in Greenland, which is at a more advanced stage than Antarctica, if finished, will raise the level of the world's seas by seven metres. I'd be well-intentioned if someone didn't think I was maliced, here I am, well-intentioned, alerted Mr. Gilas to this fact that I've just presented - the melting of ice on the North Pole. The drowning of that summer, if it ends, will lead to the sinking of the capital of Mauritius Port Luis. Here in Port Luis are the physical seats of all offshore banks where Gilas' companies and he personally have hidden accounts. Again, a front company whose sole goal is to cover up a real account owner and avoid paying taxes. The flood of Port Luis will physically run out of cover of banks and firms, and thus millions of Gilas euros in those accounts. If he tries to transfer his money from these accounts to others, it will become visible to tax authorities around the world because there have already been huge financial affairs in previous years that concerned Panamanian paper in the short zones, but there is already a huge "Mauricias" affair unrelated to Gilas, so-called. ‘Mauritius papers’. So, Mauricias has already been pounding the world's public, and tomorrow we'll find out how many million euros Dragan Gilas has fed on Mauricias. That'll be very interesting. I'll finish around. The planet Earth entered the anthropocean at the end of the 19th century, which is now the geological era in which we are, where people represent the main driving force that forms the planet. I'll remind you of that famous scene from the movie "Matrix" in which Agent Smith describes humanity as a virus that destroys the planet and today, after 20 years, it looks like a warning prophecy. Agent Smith says: “I understand that you are not mammals. Every mammal on this planet instinctively develops a natural balance with the environment, but not you humans. You take one area, multiply until you exhaust every natural resource. The only way to survive is to breed into the next area. There is another organism that follows the same pattern – the virus", near the quote. I believe that hope exists beyond this, of course, unlike the Gilasovites. The vast majority of Serbia does not live in Gilas' matrix. We live now, living in this small Serbia among the plums, among the hills, among the songs that raise one statesman who gave us hope and dignity back, President Aleksandar Vukic. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4050	Thank you, Mr. Copper. Just a notice. There's still time left for a parliamentary group less than 60 minutes. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4051	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, a respected minister with associates, dear fellow MPs, I would say that today more than ever, climate change requires a global response. They're not just a question of our survival and our future, we're living these changes right now. They are increasingly part of our present, but I would say these new realities, when the whole world is struggling with the pandemic of the Kovid 19 virus. Serbia as an EU accession country seeks to implement and implement all those international and European standards in its legislation and to give full support to efforts so far in finding a universal solution, for one of the problems of modern civilization that no country is immune to, what is the problem of climate change. With that in mind, Serbia signed a Declaration in the Green Agenda for the Western Balkans last November, which was signed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic at an online summit in Sofia on behalf of the government. In line with the new economic investment plan for the Western Balkans, it will now have a clean energy, environment and climate change, sustainable transport, the digital future, the private sector and human capital, for which a total of 9 billion euros have been allocated under the pre-accession aid instruments. It is about IPA3 for a multi-annual period to be financed by the EU from 2021 to 2027. Also, these topics, such as clean energy and support in the energy field, are very important and for which the EU will allocate significant financial resources. As an accession country, we will apply and have the chance that our facilities and our companies will be competitive with their products when they want to export some products to the EU. It is all part of those ambitions that the EU itself has, to achieve this climate neutrality by 2050. Also, the Green Agenda when we talk about this investment and economic framework for the Western Balkans is scheduled and will cover topics such as green transition, decarbonisation, air remediation, water and land, circular economy, improvement of biodiversity, urban mobility and a green traffic solution. When we read all this, I would say that already some of our cities in Serbia like Belgrade and Novi Now have already implemented some of these solutions, some of these projects are already being implemented. The purchase of electric buses in Belgrade, lower gas connection prices in numerous cities and municipalities in our country, but also encouraging to reduce tolls for electric and hybrid vehicles, to subsidise their purchase, to build wastewater processing plants, to continue to build an adequate water and sewerage network in our cities and municipalities, because our capital, such as Belgrade, has not built a sewage network in all urban and suburban municipalities, which is very important but also projects such as replacing an individual boiler room. I ask you, Minister Vujovic, that we continue these projects in the coming period to truly ensure our citizens a safer and more certain future. In parallel with this, it is very important that we continue as a state with enhanced control of existing rules and expressions of adequate sanctions for the storage of waste, in order not to repeat those accentants that we could read from the media and watch, those devastating images such as tens of thousands of cubics of swimming waste in Potpečko lake or those of dangerous waste in the port of Belgrade or those of irresponsible companies that do not respect labour regulations, regulations in the field of waste management, various irregularities that we have in the matter of the disposal of animal waste, which are witnessed by the recent affair of the factory "Primium Chicken". Also today, we are discussing a very important law, the Law on Climate Change, and I want all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, but also all citizens of Serbia to remind me of the work of a Serbian world-class scientist in the area of climate change such as Milutin Milankovic, who more than a hundred years ago explained the link between the variation of the Earth's orbit and the long-term change of climate. Modern scientific studies are based precisely on Milankovic's teaching that cycles and other natural causes define the trend and intensity of climate variability and that our generation's responsibility in Serbia today is to try to find a solution to stop or at least mitigate these negative trends and to avoid leaving a world that would be unimaginably different and more dangerous for future generations. Serbia is at the Climate Change Act, I would say, waiting three years in total and after the adoption of this very important roof law with the laws we will not stop. We also expect the adoption of a number of sublaws such as the strategy to combat climate change and action plan, a low carbon development strategy that should regulate decarbonisation direction, identify the possibilities for reducing gas emissions with the effect of the "glass garden" and define key adaptation measures for changing climate conditions. The draft precisely recommends reducing gas emissions with the effect of the "glass garden" by 33% by 2030 compared to 1990. Also, I would say that during the adoption of this law, we were not only waiting for this three-year law, but rather for a number of public debates where a large number of scientists, experts, experts, civil society organisations were involved in public debates that were in the period from 15 March to 20 April 2018, and that it was precisely the aim of these proposed amendments, one of them was Coalition 27, to prepare the Serbian economy for all the challenges of climate change arising from our own commitments to EU membership, which relate to such an important topic as climate change. A large number of my colleagues today are really involved in a really constructive debate about a very important law. He was talking about those papers that the law introduces. I would only mention three basic newspapers, introduces an inventory of gases with the effect of the "glass garden" run by the Environment Protection Agency, then introduces a list of industrial and energy station facilities that will be published on the website of your Ministry and Ministry of Environment Protection, but it is also an obligation to register themselves if, for some reason, they are left out of this list. Also, the paper is also the role of the National Council for Climate Change, one advisory body involving representatives of the scientific and professional public beside you from the Ministry, a number of representatives of civil society who will indeed make an adequate effort to establish and implement all those activities in order to combat climate change in Serbia. Also, I would say, in preparation for today's session and for my presentation today, I said that Serbia is increasing its climate ambitions towards commitments under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change to define its reporting obligations to the Convention. Also, in accordance with the requirements of the international commitments, Serbia developed and presented its national-specific contribution to reducing gas emissions of 9.8%, reducing greenhouse gases by 2030. Also, when we look at that gas emission structure, I can say that, in addition to the private sector's responsibilities, there is a need for greater responsibility for both public enterprises and the public sector. In Serbia, the energy sector is responsible for around 80% of total greenhouse gas emissions. Serbia's electricity industry must show its readiness to invest enough in cleaner forms of electricity production. The total value of these investments is measured by billions of euros. Serbia's electricity emits annually between 30 and 35 tonnes of carbon dioxide, and if we fail to reduce emissions, we have problems and foams that the company will have to pay for and related to more than tens of billions of euros per year. Also, long-term costs of not taking moves in the area of climate change are estimated at 53 billion euros and are certainly higher than the cost of applying the strategy. The damage caused by climate change between 2000 and 2015 is estimated at 5 billion euros. When we look at this structure, I would say that more than 70% of the losses are related to the occurrence of droughts and high temperatures, and that other main causes are certainly floods that, I would say, appear cyclically on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Not only those historical floods recorded in 2014 but also in the years after 2014. I get the impression, as a national SNS MP who really dealt with the topic of environmental protection and in previous years and we know how we've had the treatment, I come from the township of Rakovica, and I really notice concrete steps that you're going to face problems and that you really don't ignore and you're quickly and efficiently solving all those issues, all of them, I'd say, accumulated problems that have caught you in this vault. All citizens of Serbia and all the MPs I want to inform that on one small surface in the old industrial zone in the heart of Rakovica were two dirty plants, and today there are two dirty plants. It is about facilities whose primary responsibility is waste management, harmless and dangerous waste. It is two companies "Miteko" and "Juneisk". After calling for a response, your ministry did indeed respond in record time. You've sent an emergency inspection and at this point, as far as the Unirisk company is concerned, there's an administrative procedure under way and we're waiting for an epilogue. So, really, some things change. It is not enough just to discover waste in Serbia, to take pictures next to that waste, we must give Serbian citizens adequate answers. Also, it is not essential to move the dirty facilities from Rakovica or any other Belgrade municipality and move them to Barajevo or another part of Belgrade or another part of Serbia. We really need to ban the operation of burners, mix reactors, all those dirty plants that pollute our environment, which pollute the health of our citizens. We are different from the other predecessors who led the environmental buffer. We are really fighting for cleaner and safer Serbia, we are really showing that we are taking care of the health of our citizens and that we are finding new solutions. Just when I'm talking about these new solutions, I want to point out that the future in the development of the concept of these smart cities, that our cities, municipalities, our units of local self-government need to turn more and more towards this concept of smart cities and that we need more real-time activities to focus not only on finding the situation, but also on how to spend financial resources. When I look at how the ministry spent its financial resources before you arrived, I come to the data, based on the 2018 budget report, that the allocated funds amounting to 40 million 543 thousand 505 dinars from the Green Forest Fund. According to former Minister Trivan of August 2019, in a two-year period only on Belgrade's territory, approximately 700 hectares were forested. Did these measures lead to a better quality of air for the Belgraders? Is it just these activities, only that the money from the Green Fund is invested in shaming enough for citizens of Belgrade, for Serbian citizens or we have to work more in other sectors and in other areas. I understand that shaming is the simplest way, sometimes the cheapest way, but we need to do even more activities in the fight against climate change in Serbia. Today, by developing technologies and these some sensor systems, it is possible to announce the problem, locate the problem itself at the moment of creation. If we can locate it at the moment of creation, we won't lead to it expanding, it being transmitted, and then we have enough time to prepare an adequate response. I see that you have launched a number of activities and that you are showing enthusiasm to solve accumulated environmental problems and combating climate change in Serbia, and I am pleased. Please continue with all those ambitious projects and competitions, because indeed, I come from one of the townships of Rakovic and I know how much the municipalities in Belgrade are really eager to apply and compete in such competitions. I know there's a lot of interest here. Our country has made a lot of progress in adopting legislation that goes in the direction of harmonisation of regulations with EU regulations, but we all have to work together to control these regulations and to implement these regulations. I know that we do not have enough environmental inspectors and that in the coming years we must strengthen their capacities, that we must strengthen them, but when we see the number of inspectors and the number of citizens living in Serbia and the number of businesses, then we certainly do not have enough of them. Also, we have to continue and my colleagues have said it somehow as the thought of the day, we have talked about it all day long, we have to work on prevention, on education, we have to expand and reform that part that applies to education and to education in order to really do it starting from the younger generations, we have to do a lot for future generations that are coming into our Serbia and we have to do more in the future, and therefore for our environment. Many of Serbia's environmental problem was viewed in a black-and-white way, as some black-and-white painting, often forgetting that the largest environmental price is just being paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are just paying for our health. In the day of voting, I call on all my fellow Members of Parliament to support this very important legislative solution as the climate change law is, because we want to ensure greater resilience to climate change, to protect our environment, to ensure greater energy security and to ensure the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4052	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 40 minutes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 20th century man has damaged the environment more than any previous generation since the existence of the globe. These days in Banat, people have come looking for land because of climate change that doesn't have to be extra categories for sugar cane plantings. They say they come from Mauritius, it seems that Dragan Gilas sent the first investors, and thanks to climate change, I believe they're going to be able to plant sugar cane when there's already no money in his account, or at the expense of his company, Ladies and Gentlemen, it's the group that's most complaining about the poor quality of air. I remember during the rule of Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas that we were all driving electric cars around Belgrade, and we were all heating up in the sun or some other kind of renewable energy. So probably the biomass left over from this sugarcane, which he produces in Banato, is probably going to benefit this country, but only if we joke. Ladies and gentlemen, you all think that agriculture is a branch that has a positive impact on the environment. That's absolutely not true. Agriculture, especially this commercial one, one of the biggest polluters, has a major impact on climate change. The livestock industry, in the effect of the glass garden, participates with 18%. Each cow produces carbon dioxide gases at an annual level of four tonnes. One car throws out carbon dioxide 2.7 tons a year. So, one cow in a year affects the environment more than one car. The world's livestock industry with 1.5 billion cattle and 1.7 billion goats and sheep, gives 18% of the greenhouse effect and pollutes air more than any means of transport for travel and freight in the world. Also, using pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, insecticides, agriculture pollutes air, water and land almost at the same time. Only part of the pesticide is kept on plants, the rest goes into the air, to the ground, and thus to the groundwater. Mineral fertilizer has an additional effect on the environment, so that water, especially in Vojvodina, is abundant in ammonia and nitrates. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Europe has a common agricultural policy, except for direct incentives, and the incentives for rural development that we have, they have also implemented a third division to protect the environment in agriculture. They also follow kilos of static fertilizer that can be produced in one country. They also control the number of conditional throats a country can have, all because of the effects that agriculture produces on the environment, and in attempts to stop climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regarding these unfortunate men who objected to Makish, we have in India a recycling plant that is "Monbat", processing lead batteries. During the rule of these yellows, as I would call locusts, they brought an investor from Bulgaria who invested in a drive to recycle lead batteries, but at the waterfall of Indji, on a regional waterway. Waste water, sulfates, they're going into a splinter canal. So, in India, the water catchment area, above the wells, is recycled by lead, lead batteries, and waste water does not go into the sewers, because it would be quickly recognized because it would lead to Danube, but these sulfates, and waste water rich in lead, go into a steam canal behind the factory, and the reference canal is actually a trench in which that water is deposited. Every bird that lands and accidentally drinks that water, flips over and dies very quickly. That's what those who talk today about sanitary water protection did. I think it's time for us to learn, especially in agriculture, climate change brings back everything we've done to the environment, bring back floods, droughts and storms. God forgives, people forgive, but nature never forgives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4054	Thank you. The word has a national letter from Biljana Jakovljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4055	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today a priority in international community policy. The Law on Climate Change, which has long been announced, is now on the agenda and applies to one of the more complex and significant laws for the protection of the health of citizens, to the protection of the environment, to agriculture, to the water industry and to forestry. The application of the Climate Change Act will establish a system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure adaptation to changed climate conditions. This bill fulfils the obligations towards the international community, i.e. the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, and brings domestic legislation into line with EU law. The bill provides for the adoption of strategies in the development of the Republic of Serbia with an action plan within two years and will be valid ten years after the adoption of this law, i.e. after the application of this law. The law is a roof legal framework for further action with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changed climate conditions, one of the five EU strategic objectives and the basis of the green economy. So, the inevitable area in Serbia and the EU's negotiations in the process of handling is climate change. The proposed law reserves the right to create a legislative framework and sets development goals, taking into account all specificities of the economic and energy sector, as well as other national socio-economic sectors. This is the year that will mark large investments in the field of environmental protection, as it will start to build a wastewater treatment plant and sewerage networks in 28 local units, i.e. the unit of local self-government, one of which is also with us in Cačka. For the town of Cačak, this is one of the large republican projects for which 30m euros have been defined and certain works are already under way, and these are related to the preparation of the site for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant worth 23m euros and are also the beginning of works on the reconstruction of the water supply channels from Parmenac to the town of Katrga, whose length is 14km, and the value of these works is seven and a half million euros. That channel was built in the 1960s and the previous government did not remember to solve the burning problem of our farmers. Environmental problems date back many years. It takes time to solve problems, but also a lot of serious investments that will speed up, or prevent air pollution in our environment. Our country recognized this as a priority problem, which is why we started a number of projects dealing with air pollution in terms of the replacement of individual lodges, boiler rooms, shaming and restoring ecosystems that represent natural air purification. Thanks to the good and agreed policy of our President Alexander Vukic, we have managed to ensure a more favourable price of gas, as well as the impact on local self-government to reduce the price of installation, i.e. to connect to gas heating. By passing this law, we will significantly improve and speed up the economic growth of our country, as well as the standard of living for our citizens, but we will also reduce the level of air pollution, as well as huge material damage to the agricultural sector due to frequent elemental disasters. The estimated material damage due to climate change is seven billion euros and by reducing GHG emissions we encourage economic growth in Serbia because we are opening a new so-called. Green jobs, we open an economy for new investments, because it is well known that all investors like to invest in a country that takes care of environmental standards, but this way we also encourage the growth of the standard of living of our citizens, which is our main goal. At the very end, in the voting day, I, as well as other fellow Members of the People's Parliament, from the Aleksandar Vukic Group – To our children, will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4056	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4057	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to point out the importance of adopting the Climate Change Act, which regulates a system for limiting greenhouse gas emissions and unchanged climate conditions that we are facing, and are generally a huge problem, not only in Serbia but in the whole world. The impact of climate change can also be seen through droughts, floods, citizens' health, agriculture, forestry, water, energy and construction. Today in Serbia, we are promoting all of the above. The aim of the law is to establish a system to reduce the greenhouse effect, in a cost-effective and efficient way. This would also avoid dangerous climate change on a global scale and the most favourable influence. The ministry is making huge efforts, along with the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government, to address the challenges in the area of environmental protection. With this law, we want to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of the ecosystems that we all influence. We leave the eco system in an amannet for future generations, to protect not only the country, but also future generations, which is the basic goal both in the economic and in every other area of life of Serbian citizens, but primarily visions better, cleaner and healthier Serbia for which Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are fighting. Because every segment of Alexander Vukic's policy is about asking questions and the goal of leaving our children more. The estimates of the damages and losses in Serbia from 2000 to today have been the policy of the former regime, where personal interest was above all, because they had no idea they were solving the economic and structural problems of citizens. They've had more than a decade for that, and they haven't done anything. With this roof law, the Republic of Serbia will take the first systemic steps that will not only bring us closer to the European Union, but also have a number of other positive effects on the citizens of Serbia and the economy. The application of the law will also reflect positively on economic growth and development, increased competitiveness of our economy, attracting investment, especially in line with the standards and requirements of the euro market, but also what is important for the citizens of Serbia – the creation of new jobs. The new vaccine factory, which is soon being built in Serbia, and it bothers them, because each success of Serbia bothers them, is also one of the effects that will reduce CO2 emissions of harmful gases, is the construction of a Belgrade subway, launched by President Aleksandar Vucic. It bothers them, too. And they didn't do anything, not for the subway, not for the big channel, not for the gas infrastructure, which was finished again by Aleksandar Vukic. What I want to point out is that there is a significant increase in giving to the recycling industry by nearly 200 percent, of 1.4 billion dinars in 2012, while in 2018 it was 3.4 billion compared to the former regime, which didn't care about citizens' lives only, let alone environmentals. A banal example of their concern, but not negligible, is a cloth that was proud of then Mayor Dragan Gilas. Also, I can't help but look back at the children of Belgrade, newborn babies, who were taken by the mayor of 2012 by 400 million dinars. It best tells what kind of man it is and what kind of man it is, which is billions of debts left to the city of Belgrade for kindergartens, which we today must return to citizens who have sued the state and the system, who led exactly that same one, Dragan Gilas. What is now the relationship between Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak in the preservation of ecology, is best seen in exotic countries that, instead of preserving ecosystems, keep their bills on Mauritius, Switzerland and other tax havens. But it's not an ecosystem, it's a system for juggling people's couples. The way it defends the ecosystem is that, with its fighters, Marinik, Morovic, Zivko Kobana Tepic and Bosko Tester Obradovic, which is the tool of our foresters, he apparently strayed instead of in the woods, ended up in RTS and in the Serbian Parliament, attacking MPs. It's obvious the man missed his profession. The hypocrisy and fear that the government in Gilas cartel lasts from the moment that Aleksandar Vukic declared an open war on the mafia at all levels, so that in every way they wanted to discredit the results achieved by Aleksandar Vukic in every area, and in the protection of the environment, but also in each other, from the fact that we are the first in Europe by investment, the first by re-reaction, by factories, including the German "Continental", the last in a series of newly opened factories, of hundreds of newly opened and hundreds of thousands of jobs, unlike the former tycoon regime that closed and sold out everything that could be sold, leaving thousands of citizens at the edge of existence. The only way and a political programme that is being cramped and violently advocated is by Satanizing in the most unscrupulous way the family of Alexander Vukic, children, Daniel, Milic and Vukan, brother Andrej. Unlike Gilas' brother Gok, Andrej Vukic has no 35 apartments and is stoically responsible for all attacks on his parents, Angelina and Angelka. Also, the same Gilas on a crowd of 619 million, who have been kidnapped by Serbian citizens and the morbid fact that he has not stopped at it but even more disgusting attacks and anyone who wants to stand in the way of the lies and delusions of his tycoon media, he is not livin', as well as his Pharisees Marinika, Alexic, Djordjevic, Jeremic, Pajtic, Obradovic, to attack anyone who thinks and works differently and honestly, and that is honestly unknown to them. Most of my colleagues, especially my younger colleagues, are attacking, unscrupulous, because they are aware that this energy and love for Serbia they will never have, except love for their money. Because they are also aware in the elections that they cannot defeat Alexander Vukic and that they cannot defeat Serbia, because the people of Serbia will not allow it, Serbia will not allow it. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4058	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Markovic. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4059	Thank you, Chairman. The climate change we're talking about today is a global problem that we all have to fight together, if we want to preserve not only our immediate environment, but the planet we live on. An elemental accident is like a flood, which has hit us too, which has been said a lot today at this session, but also an increase in air temperature, then a drought, the fires are also due to climate change. For example, in 2014, Serbia has been the hottest since 1961, since the measurements began. That is exactly the year when the floods occurred, but also the abundant rainfall that led to them. So, the drought is particularly dangerous, it's less visible, but it reduces food supplies. The impact of climate change on food production is increasing. The planning of agricultural production must take into account the fact that the climate will not be the same for the next decade, because it is now not the same as it was in the late 20th century. For us, agriculture is a significant branch of the economy, and these changes require special adaptation measures to the new conditions. The global temperature has increased by one degree, which of course triggered climate change and even to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of this change cannot stop quickly, and the region in which Serbia is located is warmer than the planetary average. So global warming means increasing the average temperature of the Earth's atmosphere and the ocean, and it includes the following climate effects, and some of them I've already mentioned. Scientists dealing with this topic are confident that this is caused by an increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases produced by human activity, such as burning fossil fuels and deforestation. The climate change policy has been established by the laws on ratification of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its accompanying acts. It's the Kyoto Protocol, the Doha amendment to this protocol and the Paris Agreement, which we have ratified. On the other hand, the European Union environmental regulations are extremely large and account for about one third of the total number of European Union regulations. The European Union's environmental policy is based on the principles of preventive action, because before damage, i.e. pollution arises and investment in prevention, it is certainly less than investment requiring the removal of health consequences, in the healthcare system, or in the elimination of floods or fires, for example. The Committee on Euro-integration of the National Assembly, which I am a member of in negotiations with the European Union in its negotiating position for Chapter 27, is an environment and climate change that will be in cluster number 4 under the new methodology, together with long related chapters. The European Union funds are available to us for projects from this area. Of course, we use it and use it for years to come, and all of it with a goal, because we want to apply the best standards that exist in the countries that are in this area ahead of us, and that is what we have committed as a candidate country for membership in the European Union, and that is just an additional incentive. Since the very beginning of the negotiations, the end of the screening process for this Chapter 27 which I have already mentioned is clear that this chapter is the most complicated, most extensive, most demanding and of course the most expensive. The question is, what we want to achieve by adopting this law that we are talking about today, which is to regulate waste dumps, or waste management, then wastewater treatment systems, improving the quality of air system that we care about in cities, then the goal of adopting the implementation of these regulations that I mentioned is a healthier environment in which we live, cleaner air, water, land and food. The previous minister in talks with us when adopting this negotiating position had no answers to the questions we asked him, and no solutions to a number of piled up, I can say decades-long problems, such as a large number of wild dumps that are located across Serbia next to densely populated places, such as the Kragujevac dump and a large number of children living in its immediate vicinity. Significant progress in suspending the disposal of a large amount of waste mud in the Lepenica River in Kragujevac and filing a complaint against those responsible by the inspection. One of the major pollutants in Kragujevac is the city's heat that will be connected to gas this year, which will significantly improve air quality and I hope that the problem of the dump will be resolved soon. I noticed that in a short time Minister Vujovic has done significant and concrete activities, removing wild dumps above all, but what may be even more significant is a concrete plan for the establishment of eight regional waste management centres, then a lower price of gas connections, the transition of boiler plants that use lube and coal to gas or was mass in a large number of municipalities in Serbia, and all of which will naturally directly reflect the reduction of aero pollution. These are some concrete progress I want to praise, and I'm sure you'll continue to work in the same direction in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4060	Thank you. The remaining time is 17 minutes. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4061	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Dr. Orlic, respected Minister Vujovic with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today finishing this debate on the proposal for a Law on Climate Change. My predecessors have explained it extremely well. Let me just say two sentences in addition to what colleagues and colleagues have already said we are fulfilling, with this law and obligation to the international community, but we are also harmonising our domestic legislation with the legal assets of the European Union. Dear Minister, since our debate is at an end, allow me, however, to say a few sentences as to what has been done by your Ministry since you led this ministry. The big problem was the waste in Kovin and you did it these days and solved it with Pancheva. What is needed for the Kovin municipality and not only the Kovin municipality, but also the whole Banat is a long-term solution, the colleague of Christmas said, so the long-term solution that you, your Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is for the citizens to know. You, Madam Minister, have prevented an ecological disaster, after a fire broke out, both in this manner and in that dump, which led to increased air pollution. The "Stavina" sanitary dump is closed, one of the largest environmental bombs in Serbia. The funds have been allocated for the recovery of the dump in Chačka and Trstenik. For the construction of the transfer station in Novi Varoša and Književec, for regional dumps in Piroth and Užica, funds have also been provided for eight new regional waste management centres. The ministry is ready to finance in cities and municipalities the problems of wild dumps. Speaking of environmental problems, honourable MPs, let me say that the former government, decorated in Dragan Gilas for Europe, Gilas, along with Boris Tadic, did not care about environmental problems. Just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the former minister and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Oliver Dulic did not take care of environmental problems. He did not use funds for a pre-election DS campaign in the environmental fund. Mladjan Dinkic also testified in this high house in 21st and 22nd of September 2012 and at the session of the Assembly when he said, quote - Dulic did not use funds in the environmental protection fund for the pre-election campaign of DS to subsidise companies that import batteries and waste tyres to recycle them. It's a finished quote. That's what my colleague Risticevic was talking about. Dulic paid in 2011 when Djilas was mayor of the poster and billboard with a message -- Let's clear Serbia half a million. Dragan Gilas and his share in the matter should be questioned. We move on, and Dulic paid for advertising in a daily list, believe it or not, respected Serbian citizens, half a million euros. You should see the role of Dragan Gilas in this matter. Then, for making the site -- Let's clear Serbia, he paid 25,000 euros. This is not what I'm saying. This is what the DRI report for 2011 says. In 2012, and we were then MPs, we became in the first session. So, we need to examine the link between Dragan Gilas and his money on Mauricios, and not only that, to remind you of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you remember the affair in Belgrade so-called. The garbage mob. In Belgrade where it's embezzled, believe it or not, 310 million dinars. For this embezzlement, a certain person was sentenced to 73 years in prison. Look at the miracles, the second-degree court freed them and suspected that Dragan Gilas had his fingers in those affairs as mayor. Gilas, as a multimillionaire, has estranged money from Serbian citizens and daily fills his accounts, see wonders in Mauritius, Switzerland, and who knows where else in which destinations. That is why media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, are becoming increasingly intense by the co-operation of the Thai mafia political groups, which I have often talked about in the past term, whether domestic or foreign. Those respected citizens have only one single goal, to bring down Alexander Vukic and stop the accelerated Serbian modernisation process conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The largest number of honourable MPs, most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is our President, Alexander Vukic. While our President Aleksandar Vukic returns our country's reputation around the world, carrying out a policy of peace, implementing a policy of security and making superhuman efforts for our country's economic prosperity and the health of all our citizens, so far Dragan Gilas is filling his accounts at Mauritius in Switzerland and other achievements, who knows where. Dear Vice President Orlic in voting day, I will give my vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4062	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. There's still 10 minutes left for the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Milica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4063	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected Mrs Vujovic with associates, the adoption of such a strategically important act is important for a number of reasons, but above all, because its aim is to create a system that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions and avoid dangerous climate change on a global scale and the adverse impact of this change. That's why this may be the most complex and important act that has ever been found in the congregation tide so far, because it concerns both the present and future generations for which we all work here. What awaits us in the next two years are the adoption and implementation of public policy documents, the harmonisation of domestic legal norms with EU legal assets and the way towards the opening of Chapter 27. But what is more important, above all, Serbia has faced several significant extreme climate and weather events that have caused major material and financial losses, as well as the loss of human lives. The rough estimate is that the damage from floods, droughts, forest fires and heat waves is about seven billion euros for this time period, more than 70% of the losses are related to droughts and high temperatures, while other major causes of significant losses were actually floods. At the same time, this law provides guidelines for economic growth and development, followed by a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which will very quickly become one of the requirements of the international market, i.e. the conditions of product placement and competitiveness of the economy, and in this sense it is important for the development of energy, industry and agriculture, but with it we also create a condition for so-called. Green jobs. Among other solutions, the law provides for the obligation of economic operators to carry out certain types of activities if they lead to an increase in GHG emissions to obtain a licence before the start of work, which will establish control and what I consider to be a good solution to the Climate Change Act is the Institute of Periodic Audit of these permits. Also, passenger vehicles that are a significant source of carbon dioxide emissions, this law provides for the obligation of the seller of new passenger cars to use accurate, reliable information on specific fuel consumption to influence consumer choice to buy less fueled passenger vehicles and thus emit less carbon dioxide. This, at the same time, encourages the production of such vehicles. What is important for our citizens is that they know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia through competitions has subsidized the purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles and thus encourages citizens to switch to greener vehicles. It should not be forgotten, of course, that thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, the investments of major global companies currently involved in the production of parts and components for electric vehicles have come. Dear Mrs Vujovic, I very much respect that since the beginning of your mandate you have been dealing with the problems that exist in the area of environmental protection. The problems in this area don't exist since you're a minister or since you're in the power of the SNS, they're decades old. Thanks to everything that has been done since 2014, we have come to the stage of development today when we are turning to the topic of the environment and the ecological sustainability of our development, because we have fought to keep our unemployment low and to keep our wages growing continuously. But we are witnessing that it seems to those whom, for example, the Moravia Corridor is unnecessary, but that is why they need bills in Mauritius, or who are bothered by the construction and opening of new factories in Serbia, take advantage of every opportunity to make this topic as politicised as possible and to take advantage of cheap political points. There has been a lot of talk in Serbia lately about air pollution and its consequences, but the causes are very perfiduous and none of us are slow, just like you, that this topic should be talked about as much as possible, but this issue, however, we will all agree, is somehow the strongest during the winter months when standard air pollutants are joined by individual cages whose number has not been established. That is why I will not further list all that my colleagues have said, and what has been done in a very short time from the section of the portfolio that you are leading, but I will say that in the day of voting I will certainly support this Law, and I am sure that all MPs from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – will help our children to spread awareness of the importance of this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4064	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4065	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, climate change is a global problem affecting Serbia as well. Since climate change is a major problem, they require an answer each country must contribute to in accordance with its capabilities. As a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement, the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement to implement activities that will contribute to this objective. The European Union, I also have an obligation and to this end it has developed a legislative framework in the area of climate change. In this way, the adoption of the law will bring the EU closer and at the same time contribute to the global fight against climate change. The European Union wants Europe to be the first climate neutral continent by 2050. As a candidate for EU membership, the Republic of Serbia will make this law the first systemic steps that will bring us, not only closer to the EU, but have a number of other positive effects for the citizens of our country and our economy. This law will unite us on a common goal, because it is beneficial for all of us to keep economic development clean and green, that for generations that come we leave better Serbia than we have found, to tackle decades of challenges, now for the first time systemically, systematically and collectively. The negative impact of climate change is reflected in the fact that Serbs from year to year record increasingly intense and more frequent episodes of extreme weather opportunities. These are droughts, strong heat waves, floods, let's just remember the flood in 2014. The estimates show that the damage and losses caused by these natural disasters have been around seven billion euros since 2000, to date. So I ask, why did the yellow tycoons that were in power from 2000 to 2012, not deal with the issue of climate change? I will remind you, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of the yellow environment and spatial planning protection minister, Oliver Dulic, and why he did not deal with the issue of climate change. He hasn't arrived since a number of malfeasances. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of these affairs. As the State Auditing Institution said in its 2011 Report, Oliver Dulic spent 47m dinars in a budget on the name of advertising the action – let's clear Serbia. Then, without a tender, he allowed the Slovenian firm Nuba Invest to get a million-dollar job installing optical cables across our country. At the time, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic spent 1.1 billion dinars on imports of 140 tonnes of water batteries and 13 tonnes of old tyres, and we know why he needed it. Also, during the period from 2008 to 2012, Dulic's ministry signed two 475 thousand-euro contracts with the firm "New Vol" on advertising "Let's Clean Serbia" on the 16-square billboard at the 2009 and 2010 Serbia Open tennis tournament. The company "DG companies", owned by Ivan Dulic, the former minister's father, received a job in August 2010 to resuscitate the deposit in Sutotica, worth 47m euros, and in 2010 Oliver Dulic paid 16.8m dinars from the Environmental Protection Fund to the father's company "DG companies". That's what they did until 2012, and this is how we do it today with President Aleksandra Vukic. Here's just some information for our citizens about the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In less than six months, since the formation of the new government, I congratulate the ministers on the job, on December 24, 2020, a new regulation on conditions and how to implement the subsidized purchase of new vehicles that have exclusively electric power plants, as well as vehicles that are powered by an internal combustion engine and electric power plants. It's hybrid engines. According to some forecasts, only hybrid or electric cars will cross the streets by 2050. The Environment Ministry announced on February 1st 2021 three public competitions envisioning a total of 400m dinars to support local self-government in implementing projects aimed at reducing air pollution. As far as waste management is concerned, more than 10,000 cc's of waste from the Potpeq Lake have been transported to the deep regional centre. With the Office for Public Investment of the Republic of Serbia, a memorandum on joint co-operation has been concluded and project and tender documentation is being prepared for construction projects, reconstruction of wastewater treatment facilities and the construction of a sewerage network in 28 local self-government, including the municipality from which I come, which is the municipality of Negotin. I can say we have a great co-operation with the Ministry of Environment. The adoption of the law is not only important for us to fulfil our obligations to the EU and the international community, but also for responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. In the day of the vote, I will support the proposal for a law on climate change, which I call on my colleagues to do from the legislator group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4066	Thank you, Mr. Boskovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we've exhausted the list of those reported for word. Now I ask if any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone who has not used the right of Article 96, are answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the closing statement will be given by Minister Irena Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4067	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs and, above all, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have followed closely the debate on the proposal for climate change laws and what I want at the very beginning is to thank you very much for your participation in the debate on the law mentioned and how you have brought the citizens closer to it in the best and possible way. Also, I've heard about local problems, cities and municipalities you come from, and I'm also surprised by the information and careful monitoring of the ministry's work. So it's my duty to work more and more every day and not just mine, but the whole team that's here with me today, and, of course, those who are in the Ministry. We'll try to change the system and work on it. We've set ambitious goals that we can meet. Today, there was talk here about problems dating back to 20, 30, 50 years. We will certainly try to solve a large number of them right now and make a clear plan of how we are going to solve these problems. The possibilities this year are certainly great. The budget of the Republic of Serbia for the Ministry of Environment Protection is bigger than in previous years, but for the first time we have the opportunity to use credits relating to large capital projects that we are going to do. We have the opportunity to use a loan from the European Bank, a 200m-euro Council of Europe for wastewater processing factories. In 28 units of local self-government we're about to do the same, but what's important is that, apart from the wastewater processing plant, we're going to be doing a follow-up sewerage, primary and secondary. Certainly, it is also a prerequisite for a better life and a higher standard for all citizens of Serbia. The problem of waste being imposed daily, the problem of managing solid waste. In eight regions, we'll build regional and recycling centers. They will cover over 50 municipalities. I heard number 30 being mentioned here today in the debate, but I have to correct you. It's a significant piece of information for all of us. So over 50 municipalities will be included in the same. So, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is forecasting 100m euros for the implementation of these projects. Also, when we talk about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we also have a 20m-euro credit line, which will change the entire city's boiler room in the town of Kragujevac. We could hear here that the big problem is air pollution in Kragujevac, as well as a dump in Kragujevac. So, thanks to these loans, we're going to change Serbia's appearance. Of course, all these projects needed time and before that were necessary and the resources we had now provided. Projecting is under way. Soon we also expect the implementation of projects that will mean Serbia's development. What I have to mention is when we talk about the Ministry's plans for 2021. We had, as you all followed along, competitions that are significant due to air pollution, which many of you have mentioned today as one of the biggest problems in the country. Also, a decades-old problem, but I also have to point out that we solve this problem in a completely new way and approach, which was not the practice of previous years. So we've allocated significant funds from the budget to replace boiler rooms, legal entities and individual households. I must point out that a large number of cities and municipalities have reported to the competition, and that means that everyone's theme of the environment is one of the burning and certainly we can't all meet, that some municipalities didn't have projects, but I have to point out that we're not going to give up, that this is the first step in solving the problem. No one would want me to go out on my own if I could meet all those demands. Believe me, that's motive and purpose, but we also have to take it one step at a time. So, compared to the funding, compared to the project documentation, we will take significant projects to many municipalities in the next period. We've heard of local problems here today. So there was also mention of shaming, especially when it comes to Vojvodina. So it is that the percentage is extremely low when we talk about the pussiness of the Duke. There were also Serbs and Temerin, but I have to say that right through the competition and the preliminary list that came out both Temerin and Srbobran have competed and that competition will also be realized. So, both Srbobran and Temerin are going to be rustling. Of course it's also been talked about whether the shaming is enough to fight the aero-pollution. No, of course not, but that's why we're working on more track parallels and trying to get into that fight as actively as possible. What is important, to protect the environment, is certainly filled with the problems that have found us and the daily fight, but they are also the main allies of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You today, once again, have made it possible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be aware of these problems and to raise awareness together. We also talked about education where we all have to work when we speak from the youngest to the oldest. I think we can do it together. There were also talk of things that make me extremely happy, and perhaps they are not visible at first sight, which is enhanced control and monitoring and inspection in various areas of the environment. Of course, everyone's goal is to make the economy grow and develop, but my goal is to preserve the environment and the task that I've been entrusted with, precisely that all these businessmen are working in accordance with the law, when I'm talking about the management of hazardous waste. So if we want to reduce the aero-pollution, if we want cleaner rivers, cleaner land, we have to go into battle with that. There were all kinds of companies mentioned. What is my duty is to say that there is no businessman who will be skipped and has no protection in that action, to thank the daily inspection, the Ministry's environmental inspection, therefore, and the one that has certain branches in Serbia's cities, therefore, they are all on the ground daily and on every application we try to make every available capacity available to citizens. So, we're going to increase control, and we're going to increase the health of the environment. Also, what is extremely important is to mention the cities that you mentioned, which are also Leskovac and Pančevo and Cačak and all cities that will receive funding from the government's conclusion, so, by transfer and dedicated means, in order to end the last stages of many and large projects that also concern the management of solid waste and dumps. My condition was when I spoke to the representatives of those local self-government units that all these projects would be completed this year. So I point out once again that there is a need for co-operation with local self-government units and that for the first time in the ministry we have a department that is doing this, because the environment is being conducted at the bar. Therefore, it is necessary for local self-government units to bring in short and long-term plans on air quality and waste management and wastewater management as well. Therefore, the department formed at the Ministry gives already significant results, we have daily communication, and that is the only way we can speed up work and improve work and certainly thanks to this department and promote competitions. We talked about it in the media, and each of you did exactly that to get a project into your community. I want to thank you again for today's comprehensive debate on the law. I hope, as you all have said, that in the day of voting, we will adopt a law that is extremely important and that this is the very beginning, given that we have a plan to adopt new laws, amendments and existing ones, all in order to be faster and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-16-0.u4068	I thank Minister Vujovic and the ministry team, and I join the congratulations on the results so far. We look forward to continuing our co-operation, and when it comes to the preparation of new laws, and we will discuss this in particular in two days. Thank you, everyone who participated in today's debate. I'm finishing the initial search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
