ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5712	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, everyone. We continue the work of the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask everyone to insert their identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to requests for information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Yeah. ) National MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5713	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions concerning, in particular, small local self-government that are the fourth and fifth groups of underdevelopment. One of them is the Municipality of Srlig, from which I come. My question was directed towards the Investment Office, since in the previous period, 2014, 2015 and 2016, I spoke several times here in the Assembly about the problems of building a gym, i.e. sports halls, where we discussed in this context with our current president, and then the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. On the basis of all of my appointments and demands from the Municipality of Svrljig, we received 100 million dinars in 2017 in the framework of the Investment Office, they are separated to the point of completion of this fiscal or so on. A mixed gym, with 550 seats. It would be a great need for all of us living in Srlig, because we are interested in providing young people with sport, so that they can hang out. Normally, when it's a bad time, when it rains, when it's cold, it can't be done in an open-air balloon, but we need that physical hall, which started back in the 1990s. Until today's Municipality of Svrljig has repeatedly agreed with the Investment Office, where people who accepted this documentation have changed several times in the framework of the Investment Office and have asked for something new and new. To this day, this sports hall has not been started, no part of it has been accepted, and I can say that the individuals who were in front of that investment office, who were as people in charge of monitoring the projects, have been asked when it started to work to bring down a complete facility, although there is a complete documentation of the endurance and portability of professional services and people from the Svrljig Municipality are behind it. I call and ask the office for investment when will these funds finally be provided, when will they start building that mixed gym, and we in Srlig say that sports hall? It is the need and children who go to school and young people, because there are a large number of sports workers in Srlig who have very high quality and good results, where we have very successful athletes. Yesterday I was also talking about children from Srelig who go to high school, who have some ideas that they have patented for health protection, environmental protection and, in particular, protection when God forbids a car accident. That's why it's important to end up in Srlig that sports hall. Once again, I call upon the representatives and the authorities in the office to invest to finally finish it. We within the municipal administration have all the documents sent by the municipality to the office, where everything is sought new, new and new. All that's required, all that's required and the financial resources to get out of the security community are all done, but to this day nothing's started, to finally end up with those hundred million that are separated from the Investment Office. Now, it's important to me at last, I know it's a pandemic, I know it's a lot of expenses, but believe me, people, the people of the municipality I come from always ask that, because they know it's a great need, that we've talked about it here and with the president of Serbia, the Prime Minister of Serbia, we've also had in the budget funds defined, or in the Office of Investments, by a hundred million dinars. Nothing's been going on until today. I expect that it will be in some period that is ahead of us, for the next month, two days, to get into the process, to end it, because it is a need for all our young people, for children who are in primary school and in high school, and this project and this hall are between primary and secondary schools. That's one question. Second question. Since the Municipality of Svrljig, as well as a large number of such municipalities, is undeveloped, the fifth group of underdevelopment, my question is referred to the Property Directorate. Otherwise, in front of the Svrlig Municipality, at the beginning of last year, April or May of the month, we applied to the Property Directorate to provide space for the opening of a company, and it has close to five hectares of land. We expected that this country would be given the municipality to manage, but we received from the Property Directorate that we have no right and that this country still serves nothing, but we cannot now give the country to an investor who is interested in opening its production there. By the way, he's already opened 105 jobs and wants to transfer his entire production to Svrlig. My question is will it be possible to provide funds, place and country within the Ministry of Agriculture under the Property Directorate, and there is a large space that can be used for new investments, new jobs and for this land that would be favourable to people who would like to open up the company? Thanks again. I expect it will be settled in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5714	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5715	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the pandemic of the Coronal Virus throughout the world is going on, I would say, too long and the challenges and the accompanying consequences are unfortunately increasing. It is a difficult task for heads of state and government around the world to balance life and human health and preserve the economy. The health, safety and security of our citizens have never been questioned by both our government and the president reacted responsibly and in due time towards the resolution and management of the consequences, but also by preventing potential challenges and problems. Despite our health system being heavily burdened, there has been no collapse at any time, as has unfortunately happened in a number of economic, stronger and developed, I would say, countries, regions of Europe and the world. We have shown that we have also an economically stable country, according to IMF data from Serbia during this crisis, recorded the smallest decline in gross social product in Europe, preserved the level of unemployment that existed before the pandemic-induced crisis, and in the last few months we have been one of the world's first countries by the number of vaccinated and rehabilitated citizens. We selflessly provided assistance to the countries of the region, donated a large number of vaccines, tens of thousands of vaccines, Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH, and it is not a matter of donation of vaccines, vaccines are not donations, but of a kind of trust, construction, trust and reconciliation in the region. We have as many as four, one of the few countries in Europe that has four different vaccines available, which is rarely possible. According to the latest data in Serbia, about 3.2 million people have been vaccinated, of which nearly 1.3 million have been re-vaccinated. Belgrade is the first city in Serbia to have more than 40% of vaccinated citizens. Serbia has a clear plan for over three million citizens to be rehabilitated by the end of the month, and the fight for vaccines continues afterwards. The fight for vaccines today is like March, fighting for respirators, fighting for the future and fighting for the lives of every Serbian citizen. Despite these facts in Serbia, there is a certain group of so-called An antivaxer that seriously threatens, I would say, national security, widespread panic and false news, organize mass gatherings on the streets, and every day we have at least a few illegally organized parties in some catering facilities. Among this group of people are those who have also been vaccinated, while their hypocritical attitudes and announcements endanger other people's health and lives. I would remind you of the situation we had, let's say, in 1972, when we successfully overcame the epidemic of the variety of faith, thanks to the rapid and massive immunization, which I would say, is also necessary at this point to get us out of this global crisis as a society, as a state and as a humanity. In line with all of these, today I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. Is there any possibility of organising a social dialogue with the representatives of the anti-vaxer lobby, with all those who support the anti-vaser lobby in order to reduce their functioning and endanger the health security of our citizens, thus seeking to reduce the importance of immunisation as a globally established way of combating dangerous diseases such as the covid? Among other things, the goal of forming this ministry during the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was just a dialogue on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5716	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward to ask for an explanation? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is for the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Water Directorate, that's how far it's come with the Bay Systems from the Abudabi Fund? I'm particularly interested in, of course, the part that's near where I work and live, and it's about the Slankamen Novi projects, Slankaman Stari. These are two bay systems projects, and the third bay system is Stara Paz. With that in mind, I'm interested in how long it's been with the gulf systems in general, and especially in the bays of the three systems mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, ten years ago, Dusan Petrovic promised to irrigate in Serbia, that it was a state project to irrigate millions of hectares. That promise was not empty, it was filled with imaginations, illusions and frauds, so there was nothing of it, as far as I know, and the president of the Committee on Agriculture is constantly working on the implementation of the project from the Abudabi irrigation fund and I would like to answer these questions, so that with these answers, I can also get to know the National Assembly at the next sessions. My second question is also about water, i.e. whether the Ministry of Agriculture is familiar with the idea project of the Institute of Water Černi, and this is about supplying drinking water to the Srema population, i.e. municipalities located on the territory of Srema, it is about the origin of Stara Draga Hrtkovci and the supply of all municipalities in Srem needs about 100m euros. I know that there is an idea solution and my question to the Ministry of Agriculture, whether it is working on the project, given that both the President of the Republic and the state leadership, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is asking as many projects as possible to be implemented from this area. Next my question, of course, is REM's favorite. The following questions are addressed to REM, which is related to these Schools and Gilas channels, i.e. my question to REM – Do they know about Article 64. The law on electronic media, i.e. the fact that they transfer qualifications for the European and world football championships exclusively, undermining, can exclusively be broadcast by television channels covering the entire area of the Republic of Serbia? So it's about national channels. Are they familiar with this fact, since they have drawn up this list of the most important events in which qualifications are involved. Are they familiar with the fact that this exclusive broadcast for television channels, for these sports events, is not realized on channels that cover the whole market, but on Solakov and Gilas cable channels that deprive the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to follow the most important sports events, defined by Article 74 and the list of most important events drawn up by REM itself? Do they know that these cross-border channels, which I claim to be false, are broadcast within tens of thousands of seconds of advertising on sports clubs, namely New Sport and New STV, and that during the transmission of these events are not authorized into channels that allegedly re-emission the program into tens of thousands of seconds during the advertising day, which is in some net value of about 50,000 euros per channel, and this is about 13 sports channels of clubs and a total of 30 channels that belong to United media that broadcasts on a daily basis. I'm asking REM are they familiar with the fact that article 27 on advertising is forbidden to put domestic advertising into cross-border channels? Also, I ask REM if they are aware that after the last changes and additions made to the Council of REM, that United Media and its CAS media have moved from their cross-border fake channels to the end of classical cross-border channels such as “Discovery”, “History”, “Fox” channels, “TV 1000” on these channels, to broadcast advertising via CAS media, also in the daily amount of 10,000 seconds, which with that first case, I ask REM whether it is clear to them that in such a way, unauthorized, against the law on electronic media, contrary to the law of advertising United Groups collects more than tens of millions of euros on an annual level, and thus endangers domestic channels that they should live on marketing, i.e.e. of those ads on which domestic channels have the exclusive rights, and contrary to the law of advertising by the United Groups collects several tens of thousands of euros per year. Schools and Gilas channels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5718	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Since none of the authorized representatives are answering for word, we're continuing to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Đuro Peric. We are moving on to a joint principled search on proposals for the law in paragraphs 2 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Slavica Savičić and Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dragan Demirović, Assistant Minister, Sonja Taljan, Ognjen Popović, Assistant Minister Olivera Zdravković, Head of Department, Vladimir Pejčić, Group Manager, Svetlana Kuzmanovic, Head of Division. I welcome the minister and his associates. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on points 2 to 6 of the agenda. Does the representative of Proposer Sinish Mali, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes) The word is Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5719	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Orlic, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, face you today with five legal solutions that, on the one hand, go along with budget rebalancing, on the other hand should contribute to an even better economic environment in the Republic of Serbia and raising the standard of living for Serbian citizens to facilitate their fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus. The first law before you today is the Law on the provisional register of adult citizens, which is the basis for implementing aid of two times 30 euros, or 60 euros, which the state plans to pay to all full-time citizens who apply in May and November of the month. So, in those two months, 30 euros each. Not to forget, and I keep mentioning, that our oldest citizens will receive 50 additional euros in September. The amount of 60 euros will be granted to all citizens of Serbia who are aged on the day of the entry into force of this law who have residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who possess a valid ID card and who apply for payment of financial assistance under this law. I will remind you, last year, in the same way we implemented the aid and paid 100 euros to every adult citizen of Serbia who applied for it. A total of 4.325,500 citizens with our oldest citizens who did not need to apply with social assistance users who also did not have the need to apply last year, a total of 6,200,000 citizens of Serbia received 100 euros last year. We apply the same principle this year. So, our oldest citizens, pensioners, there's no need to apply. Social assistance users have no need to apply, and also persons at the Institute for Criminal Penalty, there is no need to apply. So that's where I was clear enough. The application leaves on 28th of April, until May 15th. As of May 5th, there will also be an application across the college center. Until then, only via the Internet, i.e. on the website of the Treasury Department. So we're going to do everything the same way, just like last year, quickly and efficiently. What is particularly important to me, this programme or this assistance is part of the third aid package, and the economy and citizens who go along with this budget rebalance. We want to show our citizens that the state is strong, stable, that we have money, that we are there with them and with them when there is a crisis and that we help them with this, perhaps for someone smaller, but certainly significant sum of money that is important to mitigate the negative consequences of the crown of the virus. So, the application leaves on April 28th. I call on all citizens of Serbia, all of Serbia's adult citizens if they want state aid of 60 euros this year to apply for this assistance and if you vote this law today, then we will create legal conditions for this assistance to be paid in time. In front of you, too, are today two laws establishing a guarantee scheme. It's also part of the third aid package. I talked about it yesterday, and you have an expansion of the existing 500m-euro guarantee scheme. I will remind you, the guarantee scheme implies that banks support our economic operators, and that part of these loans is guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, precisely to encourage banks to give loans to our economic operators as easily as possible during the time of this crisis. This was an extremely important part of both the first and second aid packages. The result is obvious. We do not have mass closures of factories, mass closures of production plants, mass layoffs in the Republic of Serbia, as you have had the opportunity to see and have the opportunity to see in much more developed countries of the world. So it's this guarantee scheme of mass liquidity, so of two billion euros, just so you know, guarantee schemes last year, one billion and 700 million euros have already entered our economy. We've seen that well, and that's why we want to expand that guarantee scheme by another 500 euros. Otherwise, the terms of these 500m euros, the terms of these loans are to be given with a repayment period of up to 36 months, and a grace period is required from nine to 12 months. With the expansion of the existing guarantee scheme, we also have a new guarantee scheme, also worth 500m euros for those companies that had a 20% downturn in 2020. So we've seen that there are a lot of legal entities that are more threatened or more affected by the pandemic of the coronary virus. This guarantee scheme has just been directed towards them. So these are usually businesses where banks are less willing to lend loans. In this guarantee scheme, the state is more guaranteed to banks if the credit is not returned, so we encourage them to provide additional loans, to provide support, to give money to those companies that had a decline in business income in 2020 compared to 2019 above 20%. On the other hand, these loans are also extended, so for five years, to 60 months, and the grace period is also 18 to 24 months long. So, extremely favourable conditions. Thirty-six months, grace period from 18 to 24 months. We've been thinking very carefully about how to help our economy meet economic operators who are more affected than others by this pandemic of the coronary virus and who had a decline in business income than 20% in 2020. Finally, there are two laws before you, amendments and additions to the law on income tax and the draft law supplementing the Law on contributions to compulsory social security. The aim of these laws is to address the issue of taxation of taxpayers who earn income on the basis of work on which tax is paid only by taxation, i.e. to address the question of taxpayers, so-called frillers. In the last few months, we've had a lot of conversations with them. Yesterday was the last conversation we had and we managed to agree on a final solution. It's the law that's in front of you here today. The basic elements of the solution are the following: tax-based obligations and contributions are determined by the tax administration solution, this solution comes after the adoption of this law, at an annual level of taxation not subject to revenues of up to 384,000 dinars. The normised costs, according to a new proposal agreed yesterday with the Association of Frillers, are recognised at 50% of the income achieved, no interest is charged until the date of adoption of the tax administration's decision and taxes and contributions are paid in 120 equal monthly wars over a period of 10 years. So we took into account this social category for those frillers that earn up to 64,000 dinars a month, at an annual level of 768,000 dinars. So, according to the existing legal solution, I apologize for the legal solution that is here today in front of you, there will be no obligation to pay, or to cover taxes and contributions that have not been paid in the previous period. For everyone else, justice and progressiveness were provided precisely on the basis of the elements that I had presented to you earlier. Since 1 January 2022, this is exactly the deadline proposed by the amendment to this law, in agreement with the frillers, they will pay taxes and contributions quarterly, with the recognition of the normised costs at the level of the triple non-taxable amount of earnings, which is now 54,900 dinars. For those who earn more, much, much more, therefore, have enough time until 1 January 2022 to agree their business with existing legal standards, to register as entrepreneurs, to establish their legal face, their d.o.o. or in any other way to regulate their status and finally, what is important, we open talks for the future, for yet another maybe defining the status of frillers through a new law on flexible forms of work that still needs to be made. We'll see what it looks like, but the invitation is also to the frillers to participate in this task force. Anyway, I'm glad we made the deal. We didn't cross the red line. So, in no way have we compromised the tax system or anything written down completely for the past period, we have preserved it, but, on the other hand, we have respected it and we have found a solution for this socially endangered category of frillers in a way that, I say, those who have earned up to 64,000 dinars will not have the obligation to last taxes and contribute, those who have lag behind, pay in general. On that side, I'm satisfied with that solution. Let's move on. We have shown once again that through communication, through mutual understanding we can find acceptable solutions for both sides. With this third aid package in mind, we talked about it yesterday, where we also help businesses, so both entrepreneurs, and micro and small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies and independent artists and all full-time citizens and Serbs living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and our people, fellow citizens, who are unemployed and those who are independent artists and those who work in tourism and hospitality and those who are auto-carriers, so we covered all the vulnerable groups more or less to ease their burden as a result of the pandemic of the coronal virus. I am proud of this programme, we have provided money for it, and that, as I said earlier, is part of the third aid package and part of the budget rebalance that lies ahead of the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks again. I'm here for any questions if you have them around these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5720	I thank the Minister for, as always, an extraordinary explanation. The word is made by representatives of the committees responsible. In front of the Finance Committee, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5721	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, on the Finance Committee, we had the opportunity to hear the proposals of these laws and what I think we forgot somewhere to remind ourselves that when we were talking about the register of those people of the so-called users. The amount of money that the state is paying into the accounts of every citizen who has applied, that is to say, to want the support of the state, these funds, include citizens who are on temporary work abroad, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that in fact the state is sending a message to take care of everyone, not only of the people living in Serbia and who have problems, but also of the people living abroad, who have now shown themselves to have big problems in other countries when it comes to their lives and their economic survival, and because of that, I think it is a very good message that we forget and ignore when it comes to this assistance and support all citizens for the funds to mitigate the consequences of Kovida-19. When it comes to proposals for the programming scheme that you have given, they are an integral part of the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but what we have all agreed on somewhere is that it should really enable citizens, especially legal persons to raise loans at this time, but that somewhere in a relaxing way, in co-operation and with the state when they take loans from the Development Fund, but also with the banks, we simply allow that co-operation at that time when certain legal persons are in charge to be as good as possible and for the Tax Administration to come out with support. You know that all banks are demanding to carry out their legal obligations as one of the evidence. We think that there will indeed be tax administrations, based on these guarantee schemes, show this flexibility and support all those companies that have settled their obligations and that have defined reprogrammes, that they can in a certain way, up to the level of opportunity for each of their companies to raise these loans in business banks, and based on what the state gives as a guarantee. It's of great importance. When you look at countries in the region, they don't have such opportunities. This means that Serbia is a financially and economically truly stable state and at this point powerful that it can simply give its private sector this kind of support. In the end, I would say about the frillers, somewhere we forgot that two years ago, Serbia came up with a large package of tax breaks when it comes to opening new companies from the IT area, that young people for the first three years are not paying taxes and contributions when it comes to their personal incomes in full, but only 30%, and 70% have the support of the state, subsidies, so I've shown that we have young educated people who clearly showed good results in this area, because we export. From this area almost over a billion euros traffic is being made by our companies, but it has proved that many of our people who have had opportunities on the free market to show that their projects can sell their services online to other companies abroad and I will tell you that they all have a payment problem. If they work with companies abroad, legal persons, then the problem is how to pay these people. They then went abroad, given that the covid had closed that movement of goods and services. Now there's been a problem for those who haven't been registered. It is therefore very important that the state has made it possible for them to register by January 1st, they can open their new companies. You gave them the opportunity to make it easier for these former workers, and they didn't pay this kind of tax, to make it easy for them, to reconcile it to the state and simply enter into one financial discipline. I thank you for this support in terms of co-operation together, so we will make a proposal on the Committee on Finance in accordance with the agreements of Prime Minister Brnabic and you, when it comes to this issue at all, so that the amendments that we will submit as a Committee will be adopted and I think we have in fact solved a problem which has also been a historic problem in terms of the IT sector in general, the frillers and the paying of taxes, the reconciliation of the country's obligations. In voting day, I think we will all support these amendments because it is, in fact, in the interests of all citizens, and especially young people dealing with this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5722	Thank you. The word is given by authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. National Assembly Vice-President Dr Muamer Zukorlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5723	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the humanity of a society and a community is measured by his attitude towards the weakest. Following all of our struggles with the consequences of the coves of the pandemic, I have a lot of impressions, but one of the strongest impressions is the fact that despite the times of the cramping struggle, when it's not easy to feel for certain categories of society, this country has shown sensitivity and responsibility to the weak, or to the poor. That's the impression I want to share with you here, but also with all the citizens of this country who are following the work of the National Assembly. Sittin' hungry doesn't believe it. Usually when you are in abundance, and a certain number of people are always, most often those who are in power are in a certain abundance, it is very difficult and it is not often a phenomenon that those who are in positions of government have a sensitivity to the poor, to the weak, and especially that this sensitivity has a continuity. That is why the adoption of these laws, which will allow for a new tranche of assistance, as well as the previous tranches of assistance provided to citizens, are actually something that is more than mere administrative activity of the Government and the National Assembly. It's a lot more than that. Otherwise, the state and state apparatus are usually a dead category, a category without too much life and feeling. The nature of the administration is not to be too sensitive. Therefore, the administration that manages not to be, or administration, is a colourless category, and the real identity of an administration is people who work in it. The key responsibility is for those who make decisions in the executive government, but also for us here who make laws as pillars, platforms and frameworks so that certain ideas, initiatives from the structures of government can be realised. It's always about sensitivity to the poor, especially now, especially in this crisis. True, sometimes when you say 50 euros, 60 euros, yes, from the position of the sito and the one in abundance, what it is, what it is for the state of 50 and 60 and 100 euros. First, that's a lot to take into account the number of citizens. On the other hand, it's not just a lot from the aspect of the amount to all citizens. Believe me, for the hungry, for the hungry, that's a lot and in a practical sense. Why do I feel invited to talk about this? I had experience, though, something more leading the Islamic community, when we saw the situation on the ground, especially in certain categories, we realized that we needed to strengthen humanitarian work. I remember then, in 2010, with the Bosniak Cultural Community, we launched the establishment of humanitarian cuisines called "Vakufu Kitchen" in the Sandzak area. We founded seven of them from Pribo, Prepolje, Brodareva, Nova Varoshi, Tutina, Sjenica, Novi Pazar. They, I must say, on the one hand, unfortunately, but on the other hand and to the joy of working to this day. I remember opening that kitchen in Brodareve when I said I'd be the happiest when those kitchens shut down. I believed the truth. Here, it's been 11 years since. I believed their lifetime would be shorter, but it wasn't. True, users have changed, but we have gained great experience through these humanitarian activities. First, there are about 3,000 people, more specifically about 3,000 families, which is much more, food. What was specific to the work of these kitchens was that, in addition to being daily interested, everyone could get a warm meal with meat, they were also protected in terms of their dignity, which we became convinced of. There are people who don't belong in the poor or who don't want to admit themselves to being poor. Worked until yesterday, received 200 euros, for various reasons lost his job. He gets poor overnight. He's got five, six family members. How do I feed them? A dignified family, a decent man cannot go to apply to a Red Cross or any other humanitarian organization, to say - I am poor, I want help. We have made it possible for them to come to the "Vacufu Kitchen", take a meal for themselves and the family without being identified, without registering their name and last name, without delivering any document or without being on any list. It certainly remained until the day of today, all the people in the kitchens are fed, regardless of ethnic, religious, political, or any other belonging. So, by leading this project, by setting it up, we've gained a huge experience and in fact, we've built this extra sensitivity. Imagine how difficult it is to carry such a project of thousands of meals every day. So that meal can't cost less than one euro. And if that's at least 300 days a year, thousands a day, imagine what that money is. Believe me, rationally speaking, it's almost impossible to maintain this project, but the fact is that good people have a lot of money, that people in Sandzak space and outside of Sandzak every day, and especially from the Sandzak diaspora, give money, give supplies, and those kitchens still live. I would also like to mention thank you to all the donors, including certain state authorities, who have also joined the support of the "Vakufu Kitchen" project in the Sandzak area in recent years. Among them are the Municipality of Prepolje, the Municipality of Priboj, and also for several years the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, more specifically the Government through this ministry. So they all actually kind of showed their humanity and responsibility to this category of people. So, what I'm saying is that it's of paramount importance that we actually humanize the maximum state compared to the workers. Unfortunately, over various times, times have passed when the state became a steel machine, it has often produced experiences among citizens that the state and citizens are two sides. It's something that needs to be eliminated. The state and citizens are not two sides. Not even the government, not even the citizens should be two sides. That's one side, so one side that actually has to work that way. The state is a home, the government is a host, and the citizens are domestic, citizens are family members. It depends on how the house will be arranged, depending on the quality of the government. The kind of government that hosts it will be a house that will be arranged. True, when times are hard for a host, it's not easy. He needs to ensure, to ensure, to bring. Can it always provide enough, can it meet needs, or possibilities with needs? There are times when it's not easy. That's why they need to be one side. Where they are housed and hosts one side, every torment, every temptation and every challenge is overcome. So that's the direction, that's the orientation we have to go to, and that's the ambience we're supposed to build. What makes me happy is that both these laws and all the activities we follow and see, whether they are of a legislative nature, whether they are of operational character or the implementation of those laws, and above all about the confirmation of humanity and human feelings should be supported. What is very important is that it has not lost its sense of responsibility to the economy, that is, toward the economy, according to all categories. What I want in particular to point out again from the package of humanity, but also from the responsibility to which we are obliged to choose these positions as the MPs, as well as from the ministers and all others who perform all their functions, the relationship to the small economy, the relationship to this small craftsman, to this small caterer, to this small seller, to that owner of some shop or store, so to say, which with that shop provides, as the people say, a day and a piece, which does not have the opportunity to secure significant profits, and then to make greater savings, and then to have a white dinar for a black day, already simply survives. Imagine what it's like for them, what it's like for them to close down his shop, to shut down his ability to make money and bring it to his family. Having a sense of responsibility to these people is really great, primarily human and then political value. I want to get her under here, and I want to point out that she's of paramount importance. I've had opportunities to communicate with these people, who say -- thank God, we survived, the state helped us, they had feelings for us, they didn't forget us not to help, not to make this easier, so that I wouldn't get this for the workers I wouldn't have to pay them their wages, and they would leave, I couldn't have them again, etc. These are daily comments that we MPs, who communicate with the base, communicate with the citizens, can be heard daily. What I'd like to suggest, here I do, I think for the second time, so we need to check if there are categories that have been forgotten or if there are categories that have been dropped. What informs me is that we still haven't solved the issue of officials of institutions and institutions of religious communities. Please, Minister, pay attention to this. So we need to find a way, especially when it comes to small communities. Big communities have a lot of ways to cover their costs, have big donors, have a country, have a fast track to get various donations, donations, etc. However, small communities with their small schools, with their small institutions, have their own servants and otherwise lived on small contributions and charity, I have to say in a way. Imagine, when they are now facing problems where these donors of theirs were those believers you are now giving help to. If their donors, donors, those of whom they live from their membership fees, through their various contributions, if they are threatened, then believe that they have a problem with their institutions, their schools of many types to survive. They're actually part of this system with regard to the fact that they have to have, therefore, their own certain obligations, the truth. Religious communities, and I don't want to forget it, have certain privileges, especially when it comes to certain duties, their religious officials get the support of the state and the Ministry of Finance for the payment of insurance, health, pension. That should be said, and it's a great relief, but they also have so many, so to speak, civil servants. Not all religious officials there, they have services that cover, say, all those objects that are not religious and teach non-religious lecturers. They do not have the state-paid insurance, and then the religious community must be able to secure income, or funds to pay for it, and besides that school, most often not commercial, they are in some way humanitarian. It's a thing that I don't talk about technical staff, from a repair lady, servicers in their kitchens, dining rooms, other hygiene services, etc. So there is a very large number of religious communities, i.e. religious communities, which are not covered by these means. That's where you'd have to find... I ask you not to ignore this question, because all citizens of this country have the right to feel the humanity, but also the responsibility of state officials, or all those who perform these functions, to feel that they are equal citizens of this country, or equally home to this house. It's not safe here for some great means, but since the state has put up with all this to take an extra half percent or a percentage, I don't know how much of a burden it would be, believe me, it can't burden the country, but it would prove to be the ultimate responsibility, but also sensitivity for all categories, even if they're a few. The third part of the topic is the question of relations with the frillers and now the legal framework that is being proposed and I am very pleased and I want to express the satisfaction and support and agreement that happened between the government yesterday and so on. frillers and others, as they say, online workers. All problems dealt with by agreement are the best problems solved. So sometimes even when we find solutions that are imposed, which look good, they never live or have no stability of solutions, as they have solutions that are reached by agreements. What the government achieved yesterday with this deal is a big deal. Logical problems were because when the country faces phenomena that had never existed before. When for the first time a topic is settled, some question is logical that there will be a break-up and logically there will be some disagreements. It lasted months. I'm glad that the state has shown responsibility and proposing these legal solutions which I hope we will adopt here, but also yesterday's agreement has made it all easier and that through the amendment, I hear, will be completely finalized, in an offer to vote where there will be no reason for such proposals to be accepted. No matter what it looks like to us that someone on the Internet makes big money with a small stake and that's what needs to be severely taxed, it needs to be taxed, but not fiercely. You don't have to do anything hard, you have to do everything normal and balanced. I am particularly glad that there is a sense of sensitivity for what has been, or what has passed, because all that has passed there is the most common mutual responsibility, mutual responsibility for why the timely something is not realized. All that is retroactively committed has its lack of responsibility, in terms of information, in terms of insistence on implementation. You know, and your child, if you let him go, so you don't regularly check for homework, even if he was a great student, at some point you'll see that he started a great student to skip the homework. It is therefore very important to show this responsibility and this sensitivity and that we will finally have this issue resolved to mutual satisfaction. True, mutual pleasures are never great, they are always relative, because every agreement implies a compromise, but it is an indicator of responsibility, indicator and wisdom. So, I think that the National Assembly yesterday with discussions on rebalancing and today with this set of laws shows its full capacity together with the promoter, or with the government to succeed, not only succeeds, but manages to dominate this crisis with the Kovid pandemic, and that's something that promises, that's something that instills optimism. For all of us who fight Kovid, not only directly, but indirectly, against all the consequences of Kovid, it is of utmost importance optimism. The more hope and optimism there will be happiness, pleasure and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5724	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5725	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Zukorlic, since you made a brief comment on the fact that we should think about perhaps even some who are even more endangered, I'm glad you said that since I'm only going to read you two numbers from the rebalancing that is before you today. So, in Section 23, you have a 25 million dinar division of the Justice Department, so you add new money to the Department of Co-operation with churches and religious communities precisely for the purpose of pension, disability and health insurance for priests and religious officials. Also, at the distribution of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, you have an additional 30 million dinars for the rights of national minorities to self-government, so the specialised services are six million dinars and donations to NGOs another 24 million dinars. So, 55 million dinars, it's about 500,000 euros to you just for what you mentioned earlier. So, I'm glad that, well, we've been thinking, maybe I didn't talk about it yesterday, but in this budget rebalancing, despite the crowns and pandemics, I think we've been thinking about everyone. You also have these 55 million dinars of extra money just for the purposes you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5726	Thank you. Right on the line, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5727	I thank you, Your Honor. That's very good news, but I'd just like to ask for an explanation. So churches and religious communities and its institutions are legal entities, and it seems to me that they are the only legal entities not covered by this support, which is said to be businesses, but it's a much wider concept than the economy itself. So, what's the reason and is there a possibility that they might be covered? I understand what you're saying, increasing the fund, supporting the churches and religious communities through the administration is great. That's great. So, a new amount of money, but you said again how you quoted -- for the insurance of religious officials. So, again, there are no religious community officials who are not religious officials. You probably didn't think about that detail. So there are non-religious officials in the religious community. So, I'd like to ask that. Of course, if you do not have an answer right now, consider that question. It's not a matter of simple need for us to end all of this polemically right now, but it's just that this category would be nice to embrace at some point in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5728	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5729	I can't disagree with you. So this assistance here is intended for priests and religious officials, just to see with the competent ministry, so some initiative should come from them, based on talks with religious communities. As you can see, I think we really helped everyone and went out to meet as much as we could, and I don't see any reason why we can't help them either, only if we can figure out a way and some methodology to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5730	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5731	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, today are on the agenda of five laws, but I would first refer to the three laws that are related to the effects of the pandemic of Kovid-19 disease caused by the SARS-Kov virus2 and these are, the first law on the temporary register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom financial aid is paid for the mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic, the second law amending the Law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support to the economy and the third law on the establishment of a second guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy due to the extended negative impact of the pandemic. These three laws we are going to talk about today are aimed at easing both the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic Kovid-19, and it is necessary to continue the measures taken to support both the population and the businesses that have been taken since April of last year. It is precisely because of the necessity of such support that is not only specific to our country, but also similar measures bring other countries into the world, because this is a global problem in order to encourage recovery of business activities, as well as the work of business entities whose activity is either suspended or significantly difficult JS parliamentary group will support all these laws in the voting day. Many will ask whether the help they will receive will be sufficient for the economy to overcome the consequences of this pandemic. The answer is very simple, because this question is identified by the question of how a man himself copes with this disease. Somebody's got enough help, 'cause the crown's on its feet, somebody's on an infusion and oxygenic support, and somebody's got this help on their hands like it's on an artificial lung. So predictable and unpredictable. Predictable, because all he hasn't done in months is on artificial lungs, unpredictable because strong firms that are constantly suffering the pressure of this pandemic can eventually kneel. If we know that the pandemic has been going on for more than a year and that the financial resources that are being pumped into the economy and the citizens are not unlimited, and that the effects of the pandemic itself as time goes by will be getting harder and harder, it is being posed as a question of how to get out of this state. One thing you know, which is for sure, the sooner we get out of this situation, the less consequences will be for the economy and for the people. The most ideal way out would be if the pandemic was gone and everything was back to normal as it was before the pandemic was declared. As far as this is concerned, we must look for alternative solutions, and we can achieve them through the joint efforts of the state and citizens. The state took a strong step in allowing every citizen to be vaccinated, so that every citizen can choose one of four vaccines. To see how strong that is, it is enough to turn around and see how it is in our environment and even wider across Europe. This kind of struggle to save the economy and people is much stronger than any subsidy, any guarantee schemes, any help. The more time goes by, the more we lose. That is why the responsibility of the state, but also of the citizens in the common fight against this pandemic, can be a great help to overcome the situation of both the economy and the people who are becoming increasingly difficult. Since the consequences of the pandemic are not only visible in the economy and business activities, but also among citizens, especially those in the most vulnerable groups, we believe it is justified that state aid is granted to citizens themselves because of the emerging situation. Someone will say that the aid is not great, just as they said that the aid granted by the city of Jagodina and Dragan Markovic Palma along with the Social Labour Centro was socially endangered in value of two and three thousand dinars. That's what the same ones who don't know how much they're worth to someone are thousands of dinars. So, as regards the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, there are a few things to be said and clarified. The provisional register opens and runs the Ministry of Finance to pay money aid to citizens. What I'm saying is, it's full of data in two ways. First, full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia apply for payment of financial assistance between 28 April and 15 May this year, in accordance with this law and by electronic means, via the Treasury or telephone portal, via contact centre. Secondly, they are automatically inserted into this provisional register, and these are all pensioners, cash welfare recipients, persons in the Criminal Penalty Office. So they don't file charges. Of course, these data must be absolutely accurate, and for the accuracy and completeness of the data, already existing databases are in charge of the MUP, as well as banks based on the existence of an account to which the aid will be paid. This clearly shows that one of the government's priorities plays a very important role in overcoming such problems, which is digitisation. The importance of digitization and the speed of its complete realization is very important because it sees more and more in all the pores of society. All full-time citizens on the date of entry into force of this law, recorded in this provisional register, will receive 60 euros each in two 30-euro tranches, May and November, and that money will be paid either to existing accounts or to special purpose accounts. I have purposely said that all full-time citizens who are registered in these temporary registers, because there is a possibility that some citizens do not exercise their right and do not apply for this kind of assistance. It should also be noted that if any mistakes occur in the sense that anyone meets the requirements for some reason has not received help, i.e. The aid has not been paid or any other failure, there is a possibility so-called Advertises. Advertise is submitted in accordance with this law electronically through the portal of the Treasury Authority or by telephone contact centre. It should also be noted that pensioners will receive another 50 euros in September, so it will be 110 euros for pensioners. In the end, this temporary register, as the name itself says, will be temporary for a year and will then be shut down with all the data in it. This law is complete and comprehensive and necessary and will be supported by the JS Parliamentary Group. As for the second and third laws, which are related to the guarantee scheme, these are very important laws that should mitigate the economic and financial consequences of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. enables private sector liquidity to be preserved. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to settle banks' claims based on approved loans and to finance the liquidity of crafts to credit the economy due to the negative impact of the pandemic. The guarantee of the Republic of Serbia is unconditional, payable on the first call and issued in favour of the banks as a security for the credits of the users. I would like to note that the government reacted very quickly after the outbreak of the Kovid-19 pandemic and already in April 2020 passed a regulation on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, as well as that the regulation was confirmed by the law at the end of 2020. When the guarantee scheme law proved to be excellent and banks have so far granted around 1.7 billion credits under this guarantee scheme, and the projected size of realisation was two billion euros, the solution imposes an extension of this guarantee scheme with maximum credit values that banks can place with the state guarantee, which is increasing by 500m euros, so the amount will be 2.5 billion euros. Another important change in this guarantee scheme also concerns the period of availability of these loans, which is until 30 June 2022. Since certain actions have been particularly affected by the pandemic, the question of how to help them too is raised. These are mainly activities from the areas of hospitality, hotels in cities, the activities of tourist agencies, passenger traffic, etc. That is why a second guarantee scheme is being set up aimed at all companies in these vulnerable sectors, as well as companies in other sectors with a downturn in business income of more than 20% in 2020. The maximum value of loans covered by other guarantee schemes will be 500m euros, noting that these loans are given with a 60-month repayment period with a mandatory grace period of 18-24 months included. In this way, additional support is provided to the particularly vulnerable sectors most affected by this crisis. So, as this shows, the government and the finance ministry are making huge efforts to reduce the impact of this pandemic on the economy and the people, but I note that only the strong synergy of the state and the citizens of this pandemic can be defeated. As far as the other two laws are concerned, these are the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens and the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, we are actually talking about the current subject. It's about the so-called theme. frillers or freemen, i.e. those who make revenue online by providing services without establishing a working relationship. Services can be, software development, translation, foreign language classes, chess lessons, promotions, etc. I need to explain here why the JS Group will vote for these two laws, which we otherwise consider more than correct towards the frillers. First of all, let me point out some facts. First, in order to function effectively, the state established a tax system, i.e. a system for paying taxes on citizens and businesses, so that the state could function. Secondly, the current Law on Income Tax has prescribed an obligation to tax incomes from abroad, which are generated by natural persons. Those physical faces are all taxpayers. Of course, they must be residents of the Republic of Serbia, those who have or reside in the Republic of Serbia or who live for more than six months, i.e. Half a year in a period of one year. Third, by amending the Tax Procedure and Administration Act of December 2019, all commercial banks have an obligation to supply data on current accounts and savings roles and legal entities and entrepreneurs and natural persons at the request of the Tax Administration. Tax obligations may be established on the basis of these payments. Of course, there's a possibility that these payments and gifts are, for example, parents working abroad send money to their children, but it can be very easily proven, and it would be treated as a gift, it would not be paid tax. Similarly, it would be determined whether it was a loan or not. I deliberately mentioned this so that I could further explain these two things, so a gift and a loan. Therefore, these views clearly show that the frillers are taxpayers just like all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who earn in Serbia itself. The question is often asked – why is it now asked of the frillers to pay taxes and for the last five years, of course, now under this law on much better terms? The answer to this question goes in two directions. The first direction we need to know that self-taxation where the frillers are also introduced is in 2014 and that this is one of the forms of billing and paying taxes on the income of citizens and each should have filled in electronically and submitted a tax application within 30 days of the day of payment to be self-taxed, and that the Tax Administration only exercises the control of regularity. The income tax of the obsolescence within five years and it is normal to expect the Tax Administration to react preventively in order to end the flow of obsolescence. That's what public-communal companies do when, for example, you don't pay for heating, so a reminder comes to you just for reasons to break the statute of limitations. There's a year of limitations and no one's asking why they're sending me a warning right now, not a month ago. The other direction we need to look at is that we can also ask the opposite question – did the Tax Administration have the capacity to do the job 100% effectively so far? For some, not to be a mother and some stepmoms? By the very process of digitisation and transformation of recent years and the adoption of the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, the Tax Administration has created additional resources with the help of which it can solve these problems adequately. The second question is, how many frillers do they have to pay and what concessions does the government make? We just heard from the minister that certain concessions have been achieved, but I'm going to say a few – interest is being written off, for the last five years, 120 months of equal wars, or at 10 years it's being paid, the normised costs that were at the beginning of 20% and 43%, and now we hear that they are 50%, and these are costs that are being deducted from the taxable part and still the non-taxable part on an annual level that was up to almost 384 thousand, and now we hear that it is 768 thousand or 64 thousand dinars untaxable on the monthly level. To make that a little clearer, I've set an example or two. If we have a private person in Serbia who pays a salary of 64 thousand dinars and I would point out that this is a higher salary than the salary of educational workers in Serbia, he must pay almost 38 000 or more dinars of taxes, i.e. income tax and contributions. If we had a friller who made a month's salary in the previous 64,000 years, this new law would mean that he doesn't pay any taxes. If we take another example, for example, if we make 100,000 dinars a month, and 768 thousand dinars, these are assets that are not tax-free and if we take the rest of the 432 thousand normable costs, they're counting on 50%, so that figure is divided by two, we see that the social category is maximumly respected and that all those who earn a little more need a little more and pay. That is why the JS Parliamentary Group will vote in the day of voting and support both these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5732	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5733	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support a set of draft laws that lie ahead of us. In my presentation, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I will look at the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing a guarantee scheme and the proposal for a law establishing a second guarantee scheme, as they continue to provide liquidity and economic operators and the process of easing the economic and financial consequences resulting from the pandemic of Kovid – 19, and our colleagues, the MP Dr Emesha Uri and counterpart Rosalia Ekres will later discuss other aspects of the proposed laws. In fact, responsible economic policy management and the constant good state in the budget have again created enough space for the government of Serbia to help the economy mitigate the negative effects of the Korona virus pandemic, thus adopting a new, third economic package of support measures for businesses and citizens, worth 249.4 billion dinars, which will, among other things, provide an additional 500m euros for businessmen through the first guarantee scheme and 500m euros under the second guarantee scheme, to provide additional liquidity to the economy. Given the significant decline in income in the period and after the state of emergency and the global pandemic, as we are all aware, the liquidity of the economy is significantly at risk, and for its revitalisation the necessary support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is necessary. An increase in the liquidity of business entities through the guarantee mechanism of the Republic of Serbia for loans granted by banks to business entities for the financing of liquidity and crafts assets, which is made possible by the conclusion of an agreement on the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to credit the economy with the aim of easing the negative consequences of Kovid’s pandemic – 19 is a measure that sublimes itself with an extremely important and necessary mechanism of effect for all persons based in the Republic of Serbia, including agricultural holdings, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose liquidity is a prerequisite for the functioning of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the said regulation and the law, the dinar share of payments has been significantly increased, resulting in the growth of dinar loans to the economy, i.e. by the fall of interest rates on dinar loans. Low and stable inflation contributed to the growth of credit activity, as well as measures by the National Bank of Serbia to support the process of dinarisation. The parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote for the proposed laws in the voting day, as they will contribute to making the rate of real GDP growth in the current 2021 year 6%. The most significant sources of growth on the spending side will be investment and personal consumption, and thanks to the above mentioned measure, stability on the labour market is maintained. On the basis of the proposed Law establishing a second guarantee scheme, we can conclude that the price of loans indexed in euro will be slightly higher than the last time, maximum 4% plus the three-month euro, which are indexed in dinars 2,75 plus one or three-month belibor. This in translation means that euribor currently stands at 0.54% and belibor minus 0.34%, so we can conclude that the credit price is really favourable. The proposed interest rates increase the overall liquidity of the financial market and will reduce the amount of the claims. In order to continue the process of dinarisation, we believe it is necessary to further reduce the interest rate of loans in dinars. This is extremely important because it excludes the risk of course. We particularly welcome that the guarantee scheme has two increased credit repayment times from 36 to 60 months and a grace period from 19 to 12 months to 18 to 24 months. The proposed terms of the loan are extremely favourable, and this is mostly said by the fact that loans from other programmes where guarantees are provided by international funds and loans are tied to the euro and there are no clean dinar loans, the maximum amount of credit lags far behind from loans with a guarantee scheme, where the loan ceiling is up to three million euros, i.e. up to about 360 million dinars. Other credit conditions, such as grace period, interest rate and credit collection times, are in most cases worse compared to loans with a guarantee scheme, and agricultural holdings are even excluded from most of the programmes, while loans with a state guarantee are not. On the basis of all this, we can say that currently on the market is the most favourable credit with a state guarantee and that is one of the reasons why our parliamentary group will support the proposed law, and another reason is that the new law of the state wants to help the most vulnerable sectors, whose operations are largely limited and threatened by measures to combat the epidemic, which are primarily sectors of passenger transport, catering, hotel and tourist agencies. We must also say that, in addition to good conditions, the most important measure of the proposed law is to refinance existing loans with the same bank. This is an extremely good banking product because credit users who have been paying it off for a while provide additional time in terms of grace periods and credit repayment deadlines, thus providing the company with air and pandemics. Last year, I underlined in my speech that it would be necessary for the purpose of extending the said loan and allowing businesses to use it for investment investments in addition to liquidity security. I pointed out that this is very important because, in 2021, investment will be the first in terms of a positive contribution to GDP growth, which is extremely significant from the point of view of its sustainability. For this reason, I really welcome the Ministry of Finance's decision to allow businesses to take favourable loans and investment investments in the proposal for a law establishing a second guarantee scheme. I would also like to point out that it is very important to find a solution and that the contractors get much simpler censures from business banks. Namely, contractors in each investment should deliver different guarantees, for example as a guarantee for good performance of the job, to the contractor, and because of the duration of the investment, banks should always ask the contractor for sound security, such as the first-row mortgage. It is very difficult to secure in smaller towns, or almost everywhere outside Belgrade, because banks find it very difficult to accept the properties that are located in undeveloped security municipalities, if they accept them, for liquidation value only about 50% of the estimated value of the property, or 50% of the mortgages. It is therefore important that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to favourable loans, find a solution for favourable guarantees, as this will directly depend on the level of investment increases. In addition to the above, it is important to define the period of processing of credit requirements that should not be longer than 15, 20 days from the date of application of the client. It would be important to allow the use of loans with a guaranteed scheme, alongside private businesses, and those of which the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units have over 50% of their own ownership, without a monopoly on the market. This is important because these companies because of the pandemic, which affected their collection of claims, are also in a very difficult situation and the big question is whether without adequate state aid, they will survive this year. Here, first of all, I think of water companies that depend on the maintenance of air duct systems. The application of this law will make it far easier to access funds, small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce the cost of borrowing from commercial banks. To sum up, as I pointed out at the very beginning of my address, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the day of the vote because in recent years, thanks first to the donations of the Hungarian government, businessmen in Vojvodina have made huge investments and have thus parallelly raised investment loans and mortgaged their companies with domestic banks. This means that without these types of loans, most of the businesses mentioned could not obtain additional funds for liquidity and for continuing investments, especially with such good conditions, which loans with a guaranteed scheme provide, and therefore would have a lot of financial difficulties. We also welcome the fact that the cap on total loans, which are being placed, has been increased by 500m euros both in both the first and second guarantee schemes, because certain banks have already used their limits, and under the first law, they are looking forward to the adoption of new laws so that they can complete the agreed jobs. In the voting day, we will also support other draft laws on the agenda of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5734	Thank you, Master Ujhelji. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5735	Dear Ministers, with associates, honourable MPs and MPs, we are facing practically this week budget rebalancing and a set of those laws, we have several laws before us today, which practically work out this budget rebalance. I am very pleased that we have had really good quality activities with one really great desire for Mr. Minister and his associates to present the government's wish in the right way, to bring both the economy and our population to the best meeting, in the best way in this really difficult time. One of the main questions asked by those who always doubt the government's decisions is why are we now talking about budget rebalancing and these points today, and why didn't we predict that in October when the budget was prepared? I'm glad you gave one really good explanation. Who could have known how this epidemic crisis would go, who could have predicted how vaccinations would go, which thank God goes great in our country, and who could have predicted at that moment how it would go and in which direction would the economy go both ours and our world? I am glad that, as well as the serious countries in Europe, we have joined the rebalancing process, in April and in Germany, which is valid for a truly serious economy, in which a similar solution has been seriously considered, and the Germans have discussed rebalancing in their parliament. In any case, it is a good decision, a direct practical cause for the budget's rebalancing is the implementation of the third anti-crisis package and supporting businesses and citizens whose value is estimated at 13.7 billion dinars, not full 1.2 billion euros. So, about 2.4% of GDP. Total aid to businesses and citizens along with the two aid packages we had in the previous period will be worth around 8 billion euros, which is 17.2% of GDP. There, only these figures are enough to show the government's seriousness and desire to listen to the state of its citizens and, of course, its businesses to jump right into aid at a difficult time. Due to the prolonged duration of the epidemic, many companies and citizens continue to feel the negative effects of the consequences by, and the adoption of, a new package of measures is certainly justified. The measures will undoubtedly have a very positive impact on economic activity. On the other hand, there's one huge desire from the government to help all citizens today when it's the hardest and when of course it's very important and I'm glad that you've underlined that it's necessary for the citizens of this country, all the citizens of this country to feel that they have a strong, responsible state behind them that takes care of all its citizens. What some criticise, of 100 euros, is really how you say, hit the target primarily from a psychological factor has shown to all citizens, without selection, it is really hard to determine who to give, who not to give money to at this extremely difficult moment. I'm glad we made it very solid and practically possible for all the citizens to consume, first of all, that psychologically we give one support, and believe me, most of the citizens who live off pay are very good help. By this law that is before us today, we provide this first payment to all full-time citizens another 60 euros, twice 30 euros, with an additional 50 euros for our pensioners. I have to say, I've been comparatively watching in Europe if it's happening, it happens. Some European countries have provided once-in-a-lifetime assistance to the most materially endangered citizens, pensioners, social assistance users, child benefit users, etc. However, our government has shown the highest level of solidarity by defining itself to help all citizens of our country. The state won't have a problem financing this third package, and that's what we could only predict right now, because the aid package for the economy and the citizens will go to about 257 billion dinars, and we have 259 billion in our account. In view of that, the share will be covered by cheap borrowing on the financial market, which is today a favourable store. The Ministry takes care of every dinar. Our public debt relative to GDP and with this rebalance and with a third package of measures, as well as with record investment in capital projects will not exceed 60% of GDP, which is at the level of mastery, within the limits they have set. If we look at other countries in Europe, we'll see how much better we are. For example, Germany's debt is 80%, Montenegro's over 100%, France's, Spain's, Greece's, Italy's debt is all higher than it is in our country. Therefore, I want to say financial assistance to all citizens, namely the law that is before us today, we in the SDPS in the voting day will certainly support it. Equal concern for all citizens, support for all citizens of our country is a good message at this difficult moment and, of course, that rule applies today, when it is difficult, the state should ease the belt, find ways to help both the economy and its citizens, and then, of course, well-being can be replaced and compensated for this tightening of taxes and other obligations that citizens have towards the state. The other two laws that are currently in front of us define a liquidity and craft credit scheme, the total value of one billion euros, which will be placed on the private sector with the guarantee of our country. They essentially consist of two parts, and they're the next two laws we're talking about. The first guarantee scheme totals 500m euros is an extension of the old 2020 guarantee scheme, with a maximum amount that can fall on the country's burden of up to 120m euros. The expansion of the existing scheme has not changed the conditions of similarity, which is very important, which means that virtually all active entrepreneurs, micro, small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises will be able to apply for this. The second guarantee scheme also has a total value of 500m euros. It's brand new and I'm very glad it's meant for vulnerable sectors, again micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which prove they have a downturn of more than 20% and that's correct. The maximum share covered by the state is slightly less than 130m euros. This measure in practice means that businesses will be allowed to be in debt for a billion euros in banks, and the state gives the banks a guarantee that they will receive a share of the costs in the subsequent period, up to 250m euros, unless companies are able to repay loans. Issuing state guarantees for borrowing companies is a really good tool to achieve liquidity. The biggest benefit is that it can be implemented with relatively few appropriations in the current year, while at the same time making the economy available with a large amount of credit, which is largely positively reflected in economic activity. This is something that, of course, as much as we hear today in the debate, everyone supports. And who doesn't have some great economic experience, he realizes that this really is a good thing. All serious countries have indeed tried in this way in Europe to help their industry, by indeed giving Serbia quite a sum of money to enable our businesses to survive at this difficult moment. The idea behind the budget grant of the economy is to help the threatened part of the private sector survive, that the temporary decline in business activity does not lead to permanent and excessive job closure, and huge damage to citizens as a result to public finances themselves. Subsidisation of minimum earnings has been resorted to by other countries of Europe and the region. Data from 2020 show that these measures are largely responsible for avoiding labour market turbulence and a deeper decline in economic activity. That's very important to us. In Eastern European and Central European countries, illustrations have managed to make these and similar measures of unemployment declines at the time of this health crisis less than 2%. Similarly, it happened in Serbia, but the total number of unemployment in 2020 was reduced by only 0.2%, only 0.2%, and it was exclusively in the informal part of the economy, which was not covered by state aid. So, really, the government and the finance ministry have shown the right measure and the right moment and the right model to help our economy, and the best this data shows. Because they are proven to be effective, we believe that these measures should be applied justly in 2021, since the epidemic continues. The remaining amount of budget appropriations for the economy is directed towards the most vulnerable sectors, and we consider it truly justified. There's been criticism that we're indistinguishable and so forth. I don't think they've been justified, and that's what I'm saying as a Social Democrats, which has special meaning, I think, in ideological terms, weight. Here, we are now selectively helping, we have sectoral assistance, for the hotel room 350 euros per bed, 150 euros per room in city motels, with additional payment of minimums, hospitality and tourism with tourist guides, rent-car agencies for two minimum earnings will be given. Bus transporters, believe me, in the town of Novi Pazar where there are a large number of transport companies, we have, above all, a large number of enterprises dealing with passenger transport, this is a big deal. They will receive 60 euros per six-month bus, and we know that practically the number of people transported fell below 50%. So their activity has fallen below half, and this is the right way to help them. That's something we certainly support. Furthermore, for independent artists, we also think of those categories that are particularly endangered at this point, we will have two minimum earnings that they will get, which is certainly serious help for them again. The total cost of the measures mentioned goes to 70m euros, and we consider them to be justifiable. Business in the mentioned several branches was under the greatest negative influence of the pandemic. For the sake of illustrations, the number of night tourists in 2020 fell by 5% compared to 2019, the transport in catering really to a large extent, and I said the number of passengers transported fell by more than 50%. The part of this budget that deserves the best rating certainly is investment in infrastructure, in traffic, health and above all environmental protection. Although public investment in the infrastructure itself was envisaged by our budget, they were at a satisfactory level, the proposed rebalancing is taking place by a further 380m euros, and I am really looking forward to it. It is about further investment in road infrastructure, building new health facilities and, in particular, encouraging increased investment in environmental protection. That's very important. At this point, it's twice as valid. First, these are productive investments that will push our GDP rate this year, bringing Serbia closer to an economic growth of 6%, as planned by the government in 2021. Another important step is that the budget rebalance defines 130m euros for municipal infrastructure and for environmental protection. I'm glad they're going to invest, not just in the capitals, or in the capital and the big centers, but in all parts of our country. Sandzak isn't around either. I'm glad it'll be revitalized, completely restored or re-produced sewerage into three major Sanjay cities. In Novi Pazar, it will also be a water treatment centre, waste water, and that is a very good thing. We continue, here, the story of infrastructure is always the story of roads, for us, Corridor 11 is the vessels of future development of this region and better integration with other parts of our country. Of course, as a doctor, first of all, I look forward to the relationship to health infrastructure, to healthcare professionals, because it's not just about wages, it's about the conditions, the rooms where we work, the possibilities of giving the latest treatments. It somehow makes us proud at world conventions. Well, this fight itself has shown how tough our health care is and how well our medical institutions are that educate our fit of quality. I am glad that the government has a special sensitivity for these institutions and that it will indeed allocate a substantial amount of money. Of course I'm happy to invest in clinical centres. These are our science and education centers. There, I was also educated at the Clinical Centre in Nis, the Clinical Centre of Belgrade on Dedinj, etc. These are all the institutions the state invests in. See how magnificent the Clinical Centre in Belgrade will look and what capacity and opportunities will be given to provide the most modern treatments. Of course, I am pleased that the rebalancing will define another 50m euros. We're going to build another bird hospital. It is extremely important that the state intends to invest another 1.5 billion dinars in the construction of the vaccine factory, but also 1.2 billion dinars in a project to improve radionucleid therapy. Today, a bunch of patients, first of all those who suffer from tumors, are really somehow in a different plan. I am pleased that the state shows real sensitivity, that in conditions where we win this pandemic, we will have the opportunity to give these patients radiological therapy and quality recovery truly to a more modern and quality therapeutic approach. Of course, the town of Novi Pazar has also defined 300,000 euros for documentation for the construction of a clinical hospital centre and this is over. We have a promise from the president of the state that we hold tight and that we keep repeating, that this clinical hospital centre will start working as soon as possible. It's something that's really a little too much of a need for that end of our country. This was best shown by this time, where Novi Pazar and his hospital, the regional centre for covid treatment and cures not only Sjenica, Tutin, Novi Pazar, but also Raska, Leposavic, and indeed half a million people have been supplied and no one has been rejected and the first aid in this city has been given to everyone. In any case, I'll remind you that two days ago New Market marked its 560th anniversary, when it was first mentioned in Dubrovnik's files by Novi Pazar, one of the oldest cities in this country. There, we awarded plaques and recognitions and a clinic centre in Kragujevac and the Military Medical Hospital in Belgrade, but also the Clinical Centre in Sarajevo, Tuzla. The citizens of Novi Pazar will not forget the help, empathy and desire to help, provided primarily by the doctors of this country and, for us, very important countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, because of the current situation and the city of Novi Pazar has allocated out of its budget for all medical workers by 10,000 dinars, to help the city's budget which is, I say, quite fragile, but we will find opportunities to show the medical workers and the town of Novi Pazar has at all times jumped to the hospital and the home of health to help, and I really think this is a very good decision for the mayor to help such a single gesture and respect the medical workers. Today in Novi Pazar, more than 10,000 people have been vaccinated, it is a figure that already goes to 15%, we have broken through the barrier and I thank all those who positively influenced that people are being vaccinated, that people are not going crazy, all those political active people, athletes, intellectuals, religious leaders who promoted vaccination as the only way and the best way to fight. There, and the reis-I-ulema of the Islamic Community in Serbia was vaccinated the other day and in the best way, a personal example showed how we will defend both the health of our inhabitants and our economy. Once again, we Social Democrats will airly support this rebalancing and these laws and, of course, what the government has done in agreement with the frillers, find the best solution, respect almost all their demands, and indeed show that it takes care of all the citizens of this country in the right way, you have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5736	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5737	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Orlic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today something that is actually very directly related to yesterday's subject, which is the amendment and addition of the Budget Law for 2021. It's hard to talk today, not to mention something we were already talking about during yesterday. So this is a set of accompanying laws that should, in fact, be a priority and allow for the implementation of the third package of economic measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to say at the very beginning is that this third economic package is a measure to support businesses and citizens, it is also worth a reminder, we talked about it during yesterday as a parliamentary group of SPS worth 257.1 billion dinars, or 4.3% of gross social product. The first two aid packages definitely gave results, they saved jobs, production plants, and the decline in gross social product was the smallest in Europe, correct me, Minister, if I'm wrong, but it was minus 1%. Now with this third package we want to preserve our economy, to preserve liquidity, the insolvency of the entire economy, to preserve jobs, to realize an increased number of capital investments, new capital investments, to end those capital investments whose realisation started, and all with the goal of that first day, and we hope that that day is near, when this period of pandemic finally ends, we have a good starting position to continue with growth, with development, with progress and with Serbia's prosperity. The country's total aid since the start of the pandemic, together with this third package we're talking about, is 17.2% of the gross social product, and that speaks entirely enough about the economic strength of our country. Now, when we talked about the budget, I also reminded it during yesterday, when we talked about the 2021 budget, that Serbia is entering a strong and economically stable year in 2021, with a stable economy, with full confidence that we will realize that the projected rate of GDP of 6%. But where did this economic stability come from? Where did this economic power of Serbia come from in 2021, when, from March 2020 to today, we continue to face the biggest health challenge, whose end is not yet in sight, but I believe that we will win this very important and significant battle together? Well, thanks to the difficult, unpopular, but courageous and determined measures, the reform course of the Government of Serbia, a healthy system was created, primarily based on sound foundations. When I say healthy basics, I don't mean politics, I don't mean a list of good wishes, not what citizens would like to hear, but what reality is, a healthy system based on life and based on economy. Four years in a row, and you talked about it, Minister, during yesterday, four years in a row we had a surplus in the budget. I'll remind you of 2019, and when we talked here on the 2019 budget rebalance. Why do I deliberately expire in 2019? Because that year is, unfortunately, before March 2020, when we hit the pandemic period caused by the coronary virus. Then we adopted the last rebalancing before the 2019 budget pandemic and we made it very clear that we are doing it not because we have an increase in expenditure, but rather an increase in income, which is far greater than expected, and we have a safe and stable rate of inflation, we have a secure course of dinars and that with optimism we can finally look at the period ahead. So we have completed the process of fiscal consolidation, we are turning towards growth and development, and what was extremely important at that time was to preserve macroeconomic stability, to preserve those hard-earned fiscal achievements that occurred through the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to accept all those incentives, all those initiatives leading to growth and development. Then many quasi-criticalists welcomed it with a mockery, and how important it was, when we talked about budget surpluses, when we talked about budget rebalancing, how important all this is to confirm exactly the period of the pandemic that has been going on since March of 2020. As has already been said, the aim of the first three laws we are talking about today is to enable the application of the third aid package, i.e. these laws are primarily aimed at easing the consequences of the pandemic. First, the proposal for a law on the temporary register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the Kovida-19 disease pandemic caused by the virus. This law regulates the way in which a temporary register of full-time citizens will be made and managed to pay cash aid, the way in which money aid will be paid to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, as well as other issues that are relevant to obtaining this financial assistance. What needs to be pointed out here in particular, we talked about yesterday, so we're talking about full-time citizens who exercise law, and they're 6,118,911. The amount of 60 euros, or twice 30 euros, will be granted to citizens of Serbia who are aged on the day of entry into force of this law, who have their residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a valid ID card and who apply for payment of financial assistance. For the sake of the public, I think it is important to remind once again and point out that full-time citizens will be able to apply from 28 April to 15 May this year, electronically via the Treasury or telephone portal via the Contact Centre, which will start working on 5 May. So, the same procedure as last year when 100 euros of aid was paid to all registered citizens. Retireees of pensions, recipients of financial welfare and persons at the Criminal Penalty Office will be paid for without reporting. In addition to 60 euros, a very important thing, 1.7 million pensioners will also receive one-time aid from a 50-euro state. Also, citizens on the National Employment Service's record will receive an additional 60 euros in single aid. Now, Mr. Minister, I'd only have one question here when we're talking about the National Employment Service. Is there a date and a time limit for citizens to be registered in order to exercise their right to this financial assistance? This shows that as a state we care about our citizens, that improving the standard of living is a priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have defined it through the 2021 budget, and it is proof that in the last year, despite the global crisis, at the time that as many as six million people are jobless in the EU. We have not only preserved every job, not only have we preserved every factory, not only have we had an inflow of foreign direct investments totaling three billion euros, we have allowed, as a state, to first, as I said, provide every adult citizen with a hundred euros, to provide pensioners with assistance first of all from 4,000, so 5,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars for every health worker. During the pandemic period, pensions were increased by 5.9%, public sector salaries were raised by 3.5% first, then 1.5%, minimum labour price by 6.5%, and salaries were increased by 5%. I once again, for who knows what time in the tide, ask whether there is a single country in Europe, whether a country in the world has taken on this much of a burden of crisis on itself during the pandemic period. During yesterday's day, I said that these quasi critics who are very often criticising not only measures, but also any move of the ruling coalition can be criticised, but when you talk about economics, it's very difficult, because these are figures, these are figures, facts and it's hard to deny it. When we talk about facts, here's some economic data. The minimum labour price, for example in 2012 in April was 115 dinars, and in 2021, 183.93 dinars, from 1 January 2021 the minimum price, as I said, was increased by 6.6% i.e. for about 2,000 dinars, so now the minimum is 32,126 dinars. Average salary net in dinars in 2012 41,377 dinars, and in January 2021, 63,109 dinars. Average pension in dinars in 2012, 23.024 dinars, and average pension in January, say 2021, 29.378 dinars. It is important to point out that the average check of 27,700 dinars is now higher by about 1,700 dinars. The total increase in pensions, i.e. between 2012 and 2021, is 30.9%. Unemployment, that's what we've been talking about. Thus, every job from record unemployment in 2012 was managed to be maintained at 25.9%, with a historical minimum of 9% in 2020. Public debt, what we often hear about from so-called. Quasi critics, again I say you correct me if I'm wrong, on February 28, 2021, the public debt was 53.5%. So, less than the Mastricht level of 60%, 60% of GDP and the Mastricht criteria, which was established in 1991, within the European Community then, refers to what level of debt countries can have as much as possible to be candidates for membership in the euro zone, or the currency union since then, figure with that figure of 60%. Foreign direct investment, I said, during 2020 was three billion euros, and in January 2021 it was already 230.4m euros. These are data and now the best answer to any criticism is results and facts that hardly anyone can deny. When we talk about the other two legislative proposals – Proposal for a Law amending the Law establishing a guarantee scheme, as a measure of support to the economy for the mitigation of the pandemics of Kovida-19 caused by Sarsom and the proposal for a law establishing a second guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy due to the extended negative impact of the pandemic. So, as you said in the opening statement, they aim to preserve, above all, the liquidity of the private sector, and we believe that the private sector is of paramount importance and importance to Serbia, that the private sector is the future of Serbia, that the private sector is the flow of Serbia, that the economy is of great importance and importance to Serbia, because it is the economy that opens up new jobs, but on the other hand the states are somehow living on the economy just by collecting taxes and revenues from the private sector. An additional 500m euros has been provided for businesses and an extended period of availability for a year. Thus, through the second guarantee scheme, an additional 500m euros has been provided, primarily the most endangered works such as catering, passenger transport, hotels, cities and tourist agencies as the most vulnerable companies that have fallen from business incomes above 20% in 2020. Through the third aid package, state aid has helped the economy for entrepreneurs employed in micro, small, medium and large enterprises. Assistance at the level of one and a half minimum owners has been provided, in addition, the host, tourist agencies, licensed tourist guides, escorts, hotels, resorts, car rental agencies, will have the support of the state at the height of another full minimumer. City hotels will receive 350 euros per individual bed, and 150 euros per accommodation unit. Direct support will also be given to the passenger transport sector and road traffic and bus stations, which includes 600 euros per bus over a six-month period. The state has shown this that it takes care of the most vulnerable industries, those who actually suffered the biggest losses in this period since March of last year. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax and the addition of the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Social Insurance, these two laws are in fact the basis for taxing these so-called so-called tax. friller or these workers or workers on the Internet. We fully support the agreement reached yesterday between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the Association of Frillers and the Association of Workers on the Internet, as regards how to pay the tax obligations of representatives of this industry. Therefore, an agreement has been reached to allow the normised costs to increase from the existing 43% to 50%, as well as to allow workers on the internet, i.e. frillers, to enroll a working internship relatively paid part of the liabilities. The Serbian government thus met with frillers, taking into account the social category. This means that the frillers who made about 65,000 dinars a month are not obliged to pay taxes and contribute backwards, and those who have earned more than that will have the opportunity to pay off the debt over the next ten years, i.e. through 120 salaries and that debt will not be charged with a tight interest. So, I'm convinced that tonight when we go out and we're done with this session, we're not going to come across a bunch of people who are going to yell at the MPs - thieves, because while we're being yelled at by thieves, the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are trying to find a solution that will be in the best interest of those who have gathered together, and the question is whether even among those gathered in front of the Assembly and having a friller or sent to send some kind of political paroles. What I'm trying to say at the very end is there are always criticisms and somehow I always leave that fiscal advice for the end. I have nothing against independent bodies and we have never put pressure on the work of independent bodies, but we support the work of independent bodies. We know what our obligation is to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent bodies, but I cannot look back at the Fiscal Council again dared first to criticise the granting of financial assistance to citizens, as it did for a 100-euro support measure last year, if you remember, for which 4.325,500 citizens applied. When we add pensioners to that, when we add social assistance users, it's 6.2 million people. I would like to ask Mr Petrovic if he, his attitude, could explain these people. So they're 6.2 million. Could he explain the justification and purpose of his attitude? Because he couldn't explain it to his employees either. I asked him here if his employees took 100 euros in aid and how they felt when they received that 100-euro support. I don't mean, in that case, nothing wrong. On the contrary, we want to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent bodies. It's perfectly logical that sometimes we have different attitudes, because if we thought the same thing wouldn't think enough. On the other hand, if independent bodies always thought the same as the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then the issue of their existence would be raised. We really don't mind but we use our autonomy, because everyone has a part of the responsibility. Our responsibility to the citizens is because we are legitimately elected representatives of the citizens. This National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the vote of the people. So, the bottom line is something else. Everyone needs to do their job, and everyone needs to have a certain responsibility. Is it on the Fiscal Council, say, that it criticises the European Investment Bank, the International Labour Organization, which says that a good measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that 100 euros is allocated to every adult person in the period when we face the biggest health challenge and not just us, but the whole world. So, the European Bank, the International Labour Organisation, says this is a good measure, says this is a measure that reduces poverty, and comes across criticism from the Fiscal Council, and now we can interpret it differently. Whether the Fiscal Council, as well as the organisations that I listed as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is pushing for poverty reduction in Serbia. Serbia did not invent this measure. So, this measure was used by other world economies, and I was talking about it yesterday, and I think that's what Japan and the United States used to do, and to understand, it's not a controversial constructive criticism and I end up here, but here we have a criticism that's directed towards the European Bank, we have a criticism that's directed towards the International Labour Organization, we have a criticism, as far as I can figure out which one is directed towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then the question arises whether the job of the Fiscal Council is to criticise everything that is good, and we think that this is good and positive, and also the vast majority of citizens think that this was a good and positive measure, the data that I was talking about a little bit. So, at the very end, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5738	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? National MP Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5739	The respected chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, are now ahead of us with proposals for a law in the area of finance aimed at creating conditions in the best way to ensure support for both the economy and all citizens of Serbia, in order to neutralize the negative consequences of the Koron virus pandemic. We certainly provide this with today's draft laws, as well as yesterday's draft budget rebalancing, but I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia, first of all, is one responsible, strong, stable, and pragmatic state, which, for the sole and primary objective of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is through the pandemic of the coronary virus, with as little effect as possible. We are not making a difference between the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we are responsibly aware that we both need each other, in order for Serbia to remain a strong state with stable finances and a stable economy in the coming years. The coronary pandemic of the virus in early 2020 showed that no country in Europe and that no country in the world was ready for an event that would take place in the coming period. The coronary pandemic of the virus has fully shown all its negative effects, both in the area of health and in the area of the economy. But at the same time, it has shown us that if countries run a serious and responsible and wise policy, and how we can find a solution to cope with this monster. Such a policy was just led by the Republic of Serbia. The creators of that policy, who at no time put citizens' interests ahead of them, showed us that only with responsible and hard work can we place Serbia as leader in the region and we can place one of the leaders in Europe in the fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, and in the fight for better and more stable Serbia. The creators of this policy were certainly President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely a policy that has at no time questioned the interests of the Serbian citizens and the policy that has shown us that only with the wisdom and day-to-day work of all together can we achieve the best results that not only the media in the region, but also the world and European media are talking about. The politics of Aleksandar Vukic has shown that no emergency situation can affect the stability of the Republic of Serbia if the interests of Serbian citizens, if their health care and their economic stability are put above all else. Of course, that fight wouldn't be strong, it wouldn't be serious, unless we were able to implement the difficult fiscal consolidation measures in 2012. It is precisely these measures that allowed us to deal with the pandemic of the coronary virus in 2020, from which we will surely come out as absolute winners, because in the mentality of Serbia and in the mentality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not to surrender. We didn't even give up in 2012, when in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we found a catastrophic situation and when we had almost money to pay one salary and one month's pension. We did not even teach at the beginning of 2020, when the first case of the Coronal Virus pandemic was registered in Serbia, we wanted to give full support to citizens and businesses in order to address the negative consequences of the coronary pandemic. Also, at times when the states faced the initial negative effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus, we had a clear and detailed plan. This clear and detailed plan was to come out as winners from the fight against the crown of the virus, and to achieve this we had to have a strong health system, a stable economy, stable finance and a strong vision and an idea that President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia had. For the shortest possible deadline, we consolidated the entire health system, we provided maximum hospital facilities, we provided the necessary medical resources and other medications, so that in the best possible way, we could respond to the first wave of the coronary virus pandemic. But at the same time, we have shown that the state is not there for itself, but is there only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here I must highlight the first package of economic measures to mitigate the pandemic of the coronary virus, worth 5.1 billion euros. The main objective of the package was to preserve economic stability. More importantly, it is support for micro, small, medium and large enterprises in the private sector, as well as direct support for all of Serbia's adult citizens. The state then clearly located the problems facing the private sector. In order for the economy to find solutions at that time, there was a tax exemption and a contribution to profits and a payment of three minimum earnings. What certainly distinguished us from all countries in the region and Europe was direct support to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 100 euros. I would like to say that at no time have we made a difference between Serbian citizens in terms of age, material status or political membership. If we add to this the value of a second 564m-euro economic aid package, we come up with a total of nearly six billion euros, which you will agree to, it shows the strength and stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2020. We have shown by this move that the state is zealously caring for its citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That financial support, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, did not give up in 2021. We are ahead of us with draft laws providing a third package of support for businesses and citizens of the Republic of Serbia worth 257 billion dinars. We already have 259 billion dinars in the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget at the moment, and we can pay both businesses and citizens of the Republic of Serbia today. Unlike 2012 and the period before 2012, we are no longer in debt. We don't owe the state to the Republic of Serbia, we don't owe any citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we care about the future of every citizen and we care about the future of everyone's family in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So that we can create ways, conditions and procedures for achieving the third package of support for the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we today have proposals for the laws that we allow. When we talk about the proposal for a law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic of the covid virus, conditions are being created for the payment of double-money assistance to all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will try to make it clear to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the next few minutes as clear as possible, and more specifically, how they can exercise their right to double-money assistance. The finance ministry, as a resolute ministry, will form a provisional data register for the purpose of achieving this help, containing all necessary data to enable a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to exercise the right to financial assistance. At the same time, the ministry places a special emphasis on the protection of personal data. First of all, I would like to inform you, and you, Mr. Minister, warn me if I am wrong, I would like to present to the citizens of Serbia who have every right to receive financial assistance. There are all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then users of old age, disability pensions, then social assistance users, as well as persons found at the detention institutions. Also, I would like to say, and that is the most important thing, that citizens of Serbia can apply for two-time cash assistance in the period from April 28th to May 15th of this year, electronically via the Treasury Office portal or telephone via contact center. To pension or social assistance users, money is paid directly without submitting additional applications and without opening special purpose accounts. For those full-time citizens who do not have their current accounts, the Ministry of Finance will, in co-operation with the NBS, and without additional fees, open dedicated accounts in those banks that identify citizens in their application. The finance ministry is starting to pay off its first cash aid in May 2021, and the payment of the second part of the 30-euro cash aid in November 2021. There, I would also like to point out that our oldest citizens who have borne the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation beyond these 60 euros will also receive an additional 50 euros. We also show with a responsible policy that every citizen of KiM will receive 100 euros in aid, and every unemployed citizen another 200 euros. The proposal for a guarantee scheme law as an economic support measure is a continuation of good practice, primarily aimed at strengthening the economic sector. We want this second guarantee scheme to help the most vulnerable sectors and companies in the country. With this good practice we started in 2020, the amount of the first guarantee scheme amounted to 2 billion euros. Then we changed the existing first guarantee scheme and increased it by another 500m euros. The second guarantee scheme is also worth 500m euros. Here I would like to point out that we want to help with this package, as I said to the most vulnerable sectors, which are caterers, tourist agencies, licensed tourist guides, escorts and hotels. As part of this package, all city hotels will receive 350 euros of assistance per bed and 150 euros per accommodation capacity, i.e. room. The carrier sector will receive assistance of 600 euros per bus in the next six months. For the total amount of 500m euros, the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle its claim to banks as a guarantee, and the maximum amount of portfolio by commercial banks is 128m euros. First of all, I would like to say that here, in agreement with commercial banks, we have been extremely responsible and that the start of payment, i.e. the payment of financial aid, i.e. the grace period, is 12 months, and that the payment period will be 36 months. I would also like to say that this case clearly shows that the state has taken account of all the vulnerable sectors, without selectivity, in order to achieve the success of fighting the coronary virus. Certainly, this struggle would not have been successful if we had not recognised the importance of investing in the modernisation of the health sector in hospitals and health homes in 2014. I'll remind you that at the beginning of 2020, we met with the pandemic of the coronary virus, but at that moment we had a completely built Nis Clinical Center. At that moment, we started a reconstruction of the Infectious Clinic in Belgrade, which was built in 1926. In 2017, we had a complete reconstructed hospital, Dragisa Misovic, but we did not stop. In 2014, we continued to invest funds in modernising health infrastructure. We've done almost more in seven years than we've done in the last 40 years. We can all be witnesses that Serbia's Clinical Center, its reconstruction is nearing its end, that we are currently building the entire Vojvodina Clinical Center. At that moment, at the beginning of 2020, we re-designed the "Arena" hall and the "Home of Sports" hall in temporary hospitals so that every citizen can obtain medical assistance. We have invested 11 billion dinars since 2014, to date in modernising the health system in building new capacity expansion and reconstruction of existing dinars. i, what has specifically set us apart from all the countries in the region in Europe, is that in just four months, we have built a completely new cove of hospitals. I want to point out again, we've done more in four months than in the last 40 years. We built a completely new Kovid hospital in Batajnica with a 930-seat accommodation capacity, but not only for Belgrade and the surrounding cities, we showed that we had built a brand-new Kovid hospital in Kruševec, and that helped us to unload the already tense medical network at that time. Of course, what's most important is that this pandemic of the coronary virus wouldn't have been able to cope if it hadn't been for great medical workers. These people have been on the front line since March 2020. These people worked with the most severe patients on a daily basis, and that is why we should show them that we are taking care of medical staff at the same time and taking care of the health system. In the course of the coronary pandemic, we hired 4.559 medical workers in 186 health institutions. What I also want to say, apart from investment in hospital infrastructure, we have worked hard and day-to-day to get medical supplies and other necessary equipment to preserve the lives of our fellow citizens, and at that point we have had an unequal match with regard to the purchase of respirators and other medical resources, and only thanks to the day-to-night work, we have managed to obtain more than 2,200 respirators for a short period of time. But, certain opposition politicians, instead of being activated during the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, they attacked Alexander Vukic with headlines that the number does not match the number of respirators obtained, that the number is not correct, and then there is a shock, followed by a video from a warehouse that clearly shows that the shelves are full of respirators, medical equipment, but, unlike that, we could only find empty factories and empty halls by 2012. In June 2020, we received the support of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia and they knew that the prizes of the effort we made in 2020, but we knew that we had to work even more responsibly, even more hardworkingly. We knew that the path ahead of us was even harder, even more responsible, because it was a question of vaccination, or immunisation of our population. As a state in 2021, we have the privilege of offering our citizens four kinds of vaccines. Today, we have the privilege of having the largest hospital in Western Europe, i.e. in the territory of the Western Balkans and in Europe for the immunisation of our population. Our fellow citizens can go to vaccination, but without prior application, so I would like to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated, because vaccination is life and vaccination is a struggle so that we can be even more economically and financially stable and stronger. At the same time, we are witnessing that Serbia has at an extremely complex moment found the opportunity and the desire to solidarity with its neighbours and provide assistance in vaccines and medical aid, because, importantly, without a healthy region, there is no healthy Serbia, without an economically strong region, there is no economically strong Serbia. People, we need to understand that we all need to work together to ensure better living conditions for both the citizens of Serbia and BiH, Republika Srpska, Montenegro. We have shown here a great degree of solidarity and pragmaticism. Surely the strongest asset of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, I end quickly, is that we will begin the process of producing the vaccine at the Tolak Institute. President Vukic announced a 18m-euro investment in the first phase a few days ago, which includes packaging and distribution of vaccines, and that we will start producing the first vaccines on our own at the end of the year. We will also start producing four-valent vaccines for the flu, and even better news is that Serbia will be able to produce vaccines on its own before the end of the year. In addition, President Vukic announced the construction and opening of a vaccine factory that will produce “Sinofarm” vaccines and aims to produce two million doses of vaccines in one month and that we can immunise both our population and the population in the region. Finally, I would like to say - imagine a picture of a small country by 2012 that is now a subject of European and world media, a country that has responsible statesmen, but has a plan and a vision. That plan is to deal with the pandemic of the coronary virus, and on that path we're determined. The vision of a strong and stable Serbia is growing every day, and the vision becomes public. We build new factories, we build new roads, we hire more people than ever. We look at the economy and citizens equally, and that is why we want to give equal assistance to both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Only by the responsible and state policy of President Alexander Vukic of the fallen state have we come to a place where we receive praise and rewards and we will not stop there. Every new day we will work even more, more responsibly and diligently, because Serbia is our country, our cradle and only with strong Serbia we are all stronger together. I call on all my colleagues to support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5740	Thank you, Mr. Caesar. I'd like to inform you that in accordance with Articles 27 and 87. Rules of Procedure, the Assembly is working today after 1800 hours for the need to adopt acts in the agenda. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. First People's Ambassador Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5741	Dear chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker, as the strongest Bosniak party of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the voting day, we will support the proposed laws both in terms of budget rebalancing and in terms of assistance to citizens and assistance to the economy and when it comes to agreement with the frillers. As for this package of assistance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is something we should take off our hat to the highest state summit, both the president and the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance. This global crisis, the global pandemic has absolutely affected both the largest multinational companies and the largest state and independent trade and pensioners and proof of responsible policy is what we are talking about today and what we are adopting. Can you do better? Of course, theoretically anything can do better. However, we are helping as much as we can and I want to say how difficult this is to implement in practice, we can remember that in the near past some have promised a thousand euros for all citizens, however, from that, as we know, there was nothing and as our people say - a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the branch. This government, this council will support the citizens as much as it can. I'm especially glad we're adopting this help in a year that's not an election year. It is simply a matter of one responsible policy towards all citizens and citizens. Those who criticise this package of help call on them to think that people who are employed in the catering sector, hotels. How does a citizen who is employed as a waiter feel when your industry collapses overnight, and you do a well-reputed job, you have a certain reputation, a pretty safe and well-paid job? How does that family where spouses work in the hotel sector feel? What kind of fears and traumas do they face? That's why there's a system, and that's why there's a government that has to both individually and that has to support the group economy. And this aid package, which means last year we had 100 euros, and this year 60 euros for every citizen, that must be one good financial aid and one good basis. As far as the credit scheme is concerned, it is something absolutely necessary and I am sure that every MP and every MP will support it with two hands. Why? We can't let our companies get hurt to the banks and their credit ratings. How's your credit rating when you had a global pandemic and when industries like catering and hotel service were thrown on their knees? That's why there's a system, so there's a state that has to help certain industries overcome this crisis. What I particularly want to point out, since I didn't say yesterday, is when it comes to rebalancing. So for years, you can deal with politics, be both a minister and a director and some kind of power, and that your citizens have absolutely no use for it. Politics isn't metaphysics, it's solving specific problems. Why do we support, as a Justice and Reconciliation Party, this government? Why did we vote for this government? Why did we vote for the budget? Why do we support this rebalancing? Because of this rebalancing, I am particularly saying this because of citizens and citizens in Sandzak, it envisions 92m euros for the sewerage network and wastewater treatment only in Novi Pazar, so 26m for sewerage in Prijela and the construction of two wastewater factories in Brodarevo and in the narrow centre of Prijepolje of 13m euros, because it is intended only for these treatment of sewage problems in Sjenica 19m euros and 30m euros for the sewerage network in Tutin and 38m for waste water treatment plants. It's a concrete policy, and that's why we made our coalition deal with the strongest party, the SNS, where we wanted to show that it can be otherwise, that politics is not just a struggle for functions, not just a struggle for you to have a minister in the government. Politics is to solve all problems where citizens and citizens will be able to live better. In voting day, we'll support the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5742	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5743	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we in the SDPS were pleased to hear about reaching agreement between the government and the friller on how to pay for the tax obligations of workers on the Internet or what we will call some future law flexible forms of work. Everyone has the right to work, treatment, education, etc. The pandemic and the situation in which we have found ourselves, an under-clear and defined way of doing business, as some have defined, has made it difficult for one group of citizens to work, and on the other hand, the state has lost a significant part of its income. The amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax and Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance have begun and ended with the agreement of both sides, by having the right solution. It could be said that a group of employees on the Internet are able to do work from home, while many of the works have stopped working, though, and fortunately, we have not had mass closures, as you yourself, Minister, have said in your own explanation. We're as sorry as the Social Democrats that there's been a protest in the first place. On the other hand, it is more important than that that is an extremely rapid government reaction, insight and sense of the needs of citizens and the exercise of their rights. No law will bring happiness to all, and not everyone will always be happy with all the laws. Always, of course, can be discussed further, can be changed and promoted, but this law solves the frillers problem. And all the praises for the government that listened, but more importantly, she heard and managed to solve the problem. You're all right, Minister, you said. The agreement is the result of mutual understanding, civilized communication and flexibility and should be an example and future solution to a problem. No one is pleased with the protests, nor dear, so I appeal to the government, but also to all of us, to act preventively, to look at timely problems, to be able to recognize them, to be dedicated, wise, so if you will, and creatively to find solutions to problems and before the problems hit the doors of the state institutions, because I think that in this way we, as a country, will be the first to knock on the doors of citizens, recognising their problems and offering adequate solutions. This just means that we are making even better laws in time and making sure, of course, that they are being consistently implemented, that we are changing the laws so that they follow the course of time in which we live and that, of course, they are in line with the EU legislation, which we are seeking, because only, dedicated and responsible work, can we speed up the process of joining the family of European countries. I have repeatedly repeated from this place that this government listens and, more importantly, hears and recognises the needs of citizens. Where there is will, there are ways to find adequate solutions to current problems. Where there is will, there are also ways for responsible decisions to improve both business and living environments and create conditions for citizens to live decently from their work and thus to improve the quality of their lives. Give the man a fish and you'll feed him one day, teach him how to fish and you fed him the fish and you fed him for life. It is precisely the adoption of good and clear laws that we create the system and we need to create both the atmosphere and the conditions that drive and accelerate economic growth and development, which, of course, will further lead everyone to live from their work and, of course, to meet their obligations towards the state, which is extremely significant. It's a good thing the state helps at the time of the pandemic. Financial assistance in the long term leads to new responsibilities and, as you say, is not a long-term sustainable solution. And it's a good thing those red lines, as you said in your explanation, weren't crossed and you took care of both the tax system and the stability of the budget, etc. It is therefore important to bring laws into line with the needs of citizens, but of course also with the needs of the state. This is certainly changed by these two tax laws which resolve tax collection for those who, by tax alone, fulfil their obligation to the state best and show it in part. I am glad that these protests have passed peacefully, correctly and apolitically, without political pamphlets and parties that would abuse the problem of the group of citizens and in a populist way try to reach political points. Thank you to the citizens who have shown that and so, without a hate speech, without primitives, but thanks to the government who finally solved the problem. This is a good example of sending a message to citizens that at any time they can count on the institutions of the state and that protection in institutions or advance someone's right or solve a problem, without abuse and pulsism of those who usually stand at the head of the column to see that they have someone behind them, and when there is a solution to the problem, and the merits they don't really have, they attribute to themselves. It is therefore extremely important that citizens have confidence in institutions and that they know that they can solve their problems institutionally, not on the street. We, of course, cannot solve individual problems. We are creating a system in which the human and constitutional rights of every citizen will be respected and as a state we are trying and showing especially at this time of the pandemic to care for the most endangered part of the population. Of course, it's hard for everyone to always be happy. Sometimes solutions may not come as quickly as expected, nor is the rule that solutions are the fastest to come and the best. It is important to find and take the necessary steps to facilitate and improve citizens' lives as well as possible. In voting day, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5744	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5745	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs, today's proposals for a law on support measures for the mitigation of the consequences of the crisis are certainly necessary at this time and will certainly help overcome problems in a easier way. This third support package is worth about two billion euros, and it will significantly help our economy, preserve its liquidity, preserve jobs and help citizens in these difficult times. This package is the result of the difficult measures the state has implemented in recent years, economic and financial stability has enabled this package of measures. Last year, the Serbian government provided two six billion-euro aid packages, and they produced excellent results. The government's projection should certainly be commended, which began working on this one at the end of last year, because it was certain that the crisis caused by the pandemic would continue in this current year. With budget rebalance, the level of capital investment will be around 430 billion dinars. The continued arrival of foreign investors last year and this year is just some indication that Serbia is a strong and stable and secure state. This is a prerequisite for citizens and businesses to be able to count on state aid. The figures in this first quarter of this year show that despite all this, the situation is much better than expected and that 6% GDP growth will remain in planned projections. There are not many countries in the world that have so conceived their budget in this situation and that they are able to help businesses and citizens in this way. This third economic aid package involves direct assistance to entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as large enterprises. A new package of measures, unlike the first two, includes large companies that employ about 300,000 workers. The increase in the liquidity of business entities through the guarantee mechanism of the Republic of Serbia for loans approved by banks to finance liquidity and crafts assets is an extremely important measure and a necessary way of helping. The passing of this law will extend the existing guarantee scheme, which was formed last year worth two billion dinars, and is now extended to an additional 500m euros. It will be favourable loans from banks to the economy guaranteed by the state and will be available by 30 June of next year. The second guarantee scheme refers to companies that are in a lower financial situation, companies in the vulnerable sectors, as well as companies that have fallen above 20%. Credits covered by a second guarantee scheme give a repayment period of up to 60 months with a grace period of 18-24 months. The value of this guarantee scheme is the same 500m euros. For these loans, the state guarantees an even greater part of the loan, to make the banks safer and easier to approve the loans. If the company doesn't repay the loan to the bank, part of it returns to the state on his behalf. When it comes to direct support for Serbian citizens this year, those who apply will receive a total of 60 euros in May 30 euros, and then another 30 euros in November. This will, of course, also help us today's Law on the provisional register of adult citizens. As last time, pensioners will not have to register, but will be automatically reported. For the oldest citizens, additional money is ready, so they will receive an additional 50 euros in September, which will mean they will total 110 euros in the year. The package means paying half the minimum earnings for three months for entrepreneurs, micro and small and medium-sized enterprises that employ more than 1.5 million citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Next comes the help of the caterers, tourist workers, one full minimum wage is paid for the employees of the catering, tourist, renting agencies, as well as hotelers and tourist workers. This payment will probably be in July. Also, city hotels with 350 euros per bed, or 150 euros per bed, will be helped this month. I would especially like to commend the measures taken by the city of Novi Sad to help businesses. A stable urban budget, household spending and good economic projections have enabled the Novi Sad City Assembly to adopt measures that will help business operators this year. Visitors in Novi Sad meet the city by introducing 99 per cent reliefs for public area occupations from January 1st to September 1st. From January 1st to July 1st, hosts will be freed from renting a business space at the 50 per cent property administration. For all other economic operators, the release of the lease of a business space by the Property Authority of 50%. For market hosts in the period from 1 March to 1 July, the release of 50% leases. The city has made it possible to address the issue of agreements and reprogrammes of commitments made in the city's tax administration and in the municipal enterprises. Last year, the city helped 5,600 businesses, which is an indicator of the financial stability of the city's budget. The JS parliamentary group will support these proposed laws and all praises, Mr. Minister, for your ministry and for everything you have proposed to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5746	Thank you. The word is Dr. Emeshe Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5747	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, the SVM will support the proposal for a bill establishing a second guarantee scheme as an additional support measure for the economy due to the prolonged negative impact of the Kovid-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. The reasons for the adoption of this law are practically measures that further support the economy, and the aim is to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. However, this crisis is not only pandemic, health care, it has primarily become an economic crisis worldwide. Industry, trade growth, external trade growth, public finances, if they are stable, are the only ones that can lead to our desired GDP growth, and in the opinion of SVM – only possible if flexible economic growth carriers are protected, which are micro, macro-enterprises, small enterprises, i.e. agricultural holdings. It must not be forgotten that they are the bearers of both the social and family survival of these people, the drivers are small communities, and precisely because of their nimbleness, because of their flexibility can be at one point both the bearers and the future and the future development of our country. You know that before the pandemic there was a huge number of young health workers, primarily nurses and technicians, who planned to leave our country, all in order and in search of a better life. Due to the increase in earnings in the health sector, due to the single aid the state has given to health workers, this process, this trend of long-term departure of healthcare workers, has slowed down. At the same time, the state increased investment in health institutions, not only in reconstruction, not only in buildings, in equipment, but in workers themselves. What the health sector has returned has shown by its work, and this work of healthcare workers has caused respect for citizens, even people from abroad who have been in contact with him. I would like to point out today to you the parallel in the provision of small businesses through this law and in comparison with the effect of investment in the preservation and development of the health system. As you can see, it's been paid twice as much. A well-organized network of scringing hoved ambulances at health homes we practically kept our hospitals from collapse. We didn't have pictures going on like in Italy. So, we didn't experience this collapse that the patients were lying in the waiting rooms, in the halls, and also when the time came for vaccination, we also made it through that network of state health institutions to vaccinate the largest number of citizens compared to the rest of the countries in the environment. We have served for example the surrounding countries, for example other countries in Europe, because we have offered several types of vaccines. So, we're not just tied to specifics. We were also the first to show that both Russian vaccine and Chinese vaccine could be used and we were followed by Hungary and Poland and Germany. Then, we gave a good example of humanity, by dividing the vaccines to our neighbours and the vaccination of foreign citizens. It meant a lot to us when we received 100 respirators from the Republic of Hungary at the beginning of the epidemic. Also, the world has seen our successful organization, not just inoculation, but organization of ways of mass vaccination. For example, the association of forces of local self-government, civil protection, workers of the Red Cross, volunteers who were practically attracted to this good example of co-operation to participate in the vaccination process. In the case of the Sombor House of Health, where I come from, we have received huge support and a private sector that will mean a lot to this law, because they have shown their gratitude in terms of donations. So we have a baker who brings food to the workers at the vaccine checkpoints every day. Then, volunteers from school, from various institutions, come to help us with the organization and better passage of citizens through the vaccine point. We have received compliments from our citizens, and also from people who are temporarily abroad who can compare one perhaps more quality way of working with ours and think that we have made an extremely good organization. At present, we have distributed about 32,000 vaccines in Sombor, where 66,000 adults live, which means that somewhere around 25% of the adult population has been vaccinated with one dose. Otherwise, the country of Serbia is the eighth in the world by the number of vaccines given. So that's an absolute number of 100 people, which means we've vaccinated 27% of our citizens with the first dose of the vaccine, or we've completely vaccinated 19% of our citizens. If we translate it into adults, it would be an even better indication of vaccine status. Otherwise, we're here on the 5th in a row, with the number of people completely vaccinated to 100 citizens. We are in the world among four countries that have more than four kinds of different vaccines in offer. Only Hungary has one extra, "Modena" more. The four countries are Lebanon, Bahrain, Serbia and Hungary. The mortality rate, which may be the most important to us, means how many people died of this disease, we still keep it below 2%, many countries have already crossed that line and thanks to that decision that took place last year. We all remember that a year ago we had a state of emergency with restrictions on dating and older people, and as far as some businesses are concerned. But it was a way to practically slow down the growth of the epidemic, i.e. to prepare the health system both in time and in the right way, for the ongoing epidemic. It is important to point out that the availability of the vaccine is very important, and when you ask the question to receive the vaccine, take the vaccine you can get, because each one is better than the one you will not receive. Due to good organisation and good and wise decisions, the Union of Duke Hungarians will support these laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5748	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5749	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today's search, as colleagues have said, covers several important laws that are the kind of support for the budget rebalancing we talked about yesterday. In fact, these laws create a legal basis for the financing of the third aid package, which is planned by this rebalance. The third package, and this has been talked about, measures to mitigate the consequences of this vicious pandemic which unfortunately has not passed, nor is it certain how long it will take and may need to take every chance, including this, to call on Serbian citizens once again to vaccinate and reduce the risk for themselves and their family, so that the state of Serbia has provided a sufficient number of vaccines and should take advantage of that possibility, because it is for the benefit of all of us. In addition to serious economic support measures, the government and financial assistance were provided to all full-time citizens of Serbia, in order to help mitigate above all the consequences of Kovid during the year 2021. I will remind you that with last year's package of anti-cow measures, all full-year citizens received 100-euro aid from the state in dinar equivalent, I think you said somewhere, Minister, that it is about six million and 200,000 euros, if the pensioners consider it. This measure, as much as anyone has experienced and characterized in some other way, has firstly the character of state support. The fact that it has often been abused for various purposes, including the political, ruling majority, that this is some kind of populism attempt in relation to a difficult situation, has indeed fallen to those who have spoken of it. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that Serbia is helping its citizens in this way first. There is a possibility of this only because we have several successful years behind us in which Serbia has experienced an economic boom. The first draft law in this package, which I think deserves attention, is the proposal for a law on the temporary register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the Kovid - 19 pandemic. In order to simplify the procedure, on the one hand, payment of the planned aid, and, on the other hand, in line with the measures of the third package, to make formal assumptions for the implementation of measures to help citizens, it was necessary and necessary to legally define all categories of full-time citizens to whom State aid is intended. As far as I can see, as planned, this concerns the full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the beneficiaries of pensions, the recipients of financial aid, the persons of the Criminal Penalty Office. That temporary register will be run by the finance ministry, which is logical, under the circumstances that you will make the payment. Data shall be specified by this register on full-time citizens who are entered in the register and who, other than personal data for each of those categories, contain the number of accounts to be paid for. The most important thing you might say when it comes to this register is that there is a temporaryity of this register. It is only in the capacity to receive assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and data from this provisional register will be deleted within a year of the entry into force of this law. I didn't need to quote an explanation, but it's important to say this for the sake of the public of Serbia, because we increasingly have some attacks that simply don't even exist, but it's enough for someone to allow themselves the luxury of using any of the social networks or to hold a press conference on the street, and it's become modern, so that it's time for us to get a flat-rate assessment of something that we're all fighting for together, which is for the better life of our citizens. It's easier to comment on these things from a distance that doesn't burden you with anything, so before somewhere we all know that one good percentage of us is led by that wing: "It doesn't matter what he says, it doesn't matter who talks," but it's harder to explain and deny whatever nonsense we're able to hear these days. That's why I've consciously referred to the temporaryity of this register, because somewhere there's a speculation that it's some kind of new electoral list that we're going to abuse, so we know exactly, etc. The imagination is humanly immeasurable, there's a lot to come up with, but it's important to tell citizens that there's no last intention except for the precision of paying off this aid. The other two points in today's search also refer to the creation of legal frameworks for budget rebalancing in the support segment of the economy to mitigate the consequences of Kovid, i.e. the implementation of the third aid package. You spoke, Minister, of the aid packages. I really don't think there's anything anyone who didn't understand that was very important to preserve the economy. First of all, I think the global economic crisis that will happen as a consequence of the crown is still not visible to everyone. It is fortunate that Serbia recognized the danger at some point. What's important, we talked a little bit about rebalancing yesterday, is that not one moment despite the fact that we are both in 2020 and 2021, here's the end of the first quarter, burdened with Kovid 19, burdened with stopping life even in one part of the Serbian economy because of that. That's good, and all these measures are very important, because it can't be stopped. I don't know which way all the other states that have had some kind of cobweb relationship are going to go, unlike us. The total amount of guarantees, if I am not mistaken, is set at 500m euros. This is the result, above all, of the country's responsible relationship to all economic operators whose economic activity has been compromised by this pandemic. It is responsible to assess that it is necessary to preserve absolutely all economic potential, all jobs, and in particular to minimise the decline in income of the economy. It must create a different atmosphere than what we had, except for the natural fear that people have of something that is unknown, and Kovid 19 was to a good extent, and then new habits or even worse than the fact that they made us give up the way of life that we're all just used to. One such approach by all of us, as responsible people, chosen by citizens, I think it's more than justifiable and that it's more than our obligation. At least there should be a reference to what are critical relationships to all of this. I will refer to the criticism of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, i.e. the Tax Position of the so-called. frillenser. We had a friller in front of the Serbian Parliament and some protests and some unpleasant references. Practice has shown that all he needed to do was talk to you. As I understand it, a final agreement was reached yesterday and in relation to this bill, we will have some amendments, which will improve this and that is important. So, as much as someone is trying, I don't think that the frillers problem was small even when they weren't taxed, nor when we passed the tax bill, so now those fines that fit them or didn't, one dimension is less important than whether, as a category that's numerous, you're going to be abused at some point. So I do not dispute the right of any citizen to hold a protest, to express his dissatisfaction. All of this needs to be done, but first of all, you need to talk about all the problems that exist in this country, especially if you have a conversation, and you definitely have them. We're all ready to hear what constructive proposals are -- not anyone's wishes. You know, wishes are one thing, and possibilities are something else. When it comes to frillers, there's a golden environment, and it's good that it is. You just have to stay above what anyone needs, which is that your problem is whether they politicize you or abuse you in that way, so you'll come to the MPs and you'll be counting on any ugly names. That wasn't the solution. The solution is for the bill to arrive before us, which we can criticise, we can improve, if we think we should, but it's a little embarrassing to listen to you both from the position of both the guilty and the debtors, and if I understand the dissatisfaction. So, finally, let me look at the contents of the law package from this session, including the rebalancing we talked about yesterday. It is indeed the creation of a legislative framework, which is both socially responsible and developmental and another public debt review, which will not exceed 60%, we talked about it yesterday, but when we are even in charge of infrastructure projects, it may not be bad either. These aren't investments that have been spent. It's bad to be in debt to pay for pensions or salaries, but to be in debt to create a highway that will pay off and pay back a lot more percent than we can estimate is never scary. So that critical review of the public debt of 60%, given the fact that one Germany has a public debt, it seems to me, 80%, that one of its colleagues was speaking, is really negligible. The SPS MPs will support a set of proposed laws in the voting day i.e. Tonight, for the greatest satisfaction of all because of this socially responsible relationship with the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5750	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5751	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I move on to the agenda, I would just have to look back on one crucial question. I watched closely, I sat here glued, as I have been sitting since the start of the mandate and this three days, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, just a question – where is the opposition? We have seven opposition men. These two gentlemen sitting there are kind, from SPAS, but the opposition has no Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. They won't work under these laws. They won't work on the budget. Imagine, seven of them must be the most active members, the most active MPs. They're gone, but when they're due, then they get paid neatly, and once they get here once a month, then they're meeting here the truth about how the state of Serbia is murderous. Imagine that nonsense and that hypocrisy. I invite them to come, to work. If someone doesn't care about the budget and the package of three antique laws, I don't know what he's interested in. What did they take over? That's it. The package of this, the package of extraordinary, these three Activities is extraordinary, as well as the previous two. This means that the state is determined to continue the fight against the pandemic, encourages economic growth, and the package, of course, as the previous two, will significantly mitigate the effects of the epidemic. In all, Serbia is the leader in vaccination. We have kept jobs and economics and what is important – the fall of GDP and we are champions here because it is the smallest in Europe. So 60 euros will be given to all employees, only briefly, pensioners 110 euros, citizens and children in KIM will get 100 euros, and 200 euros unemployed at KIM, which is fantasticly patriotic. Of course, we continue to build coves of hospitals and clinical centres and reconstruction and construction of new ones everywhere in Serbia. I will address this briefly because no one has talked about the criticism of the Fiscal Council about budget rebalancing and the package of these three Activities. I'm simply going to introduce the members of the Fiscal Council to one small fact that last year, Americans received twice the state's aid. So that's Trump's administration. If they say -- it was an administration that wasn't right, I'll tell them that even under Biden's administration this year they'll get a thousand 400 euros of the same help they're here, only they're more powerful, of course, but there's another problem. Anyway, Hong Kong gave a thousand dollars to help his citizens. He did the same thing to Singapore, and now the Fiscal Council knows better and criticises this. Just to remind you, our citizens last year, we all got 100 euros in aid and that aid was given to 6.2 million citizens. So, the grandeur of Vucic's Serbia, our Serbia testifies to the next fact -- Serbia has so far donated 40,000 vaccines to Macedonia, Republika Srpska 20,000, the Federation of BiH 15 thousand, Montenegro four thousand, totalling over 83,000. However, with vaccinated foreign citizens who received a vaccine in Serbia from the region and with those who are resident here, the number of donated vaccines goes up to 150 000. I'm simply asking you -- what country in the world has shown such unselfishness and philanthropy? Well, none. In this epidemic, the biggest problem of course was not the state of the health system, the state of society, or even the economy. It was all on the right level. One of the bigger problems was the hatred of a handful of extremists towards a successful government and the spread of false news, them and their media. In one word, the Gilasovites have been challenging all measures of government over the past 14 months, mind everything, and what we're doing today. They fought and fought a special war against Serbia. The goal was to destabilise Serbia, to shake the government a little bit and bring down power and the epidemic seemed an ideal moment for them. They undermined and sabotaged the state, imposed chaos and confusion by proposing harmful and demagogue measures. I'm only going to make one example of destruction. On March 25, 2020, Gilas demanded that pensioners walk at the worst time. I mean, the state said no. It was hard to say -- no, it wasn't an imperative, because it would have been a curfew, a million and a half pensioners, but other citizens would walk, socialize, infect themselves and die massively. And if Gilasu cared about any Serbian citizen, he would donate masks, respirators and vaccines, but none of it. And finally, at the peak of the debauchery, Gilas donated the 100 euros he received from the state. Let's just remember the false news, because we forget, and we're ready to forgive, but that's fine, but just to remind you, let's remember the false news that SNS volunteers who were selflessly working at the beginning of the epidemic, helping pensioners, remembering the false news of Gilas and his media that SNS volunteers, of course, are asking for money from pensioners. And it was proven to be a lie. Let us remember the false news of Djilas journalist Ana Lalic, about the disaster and some cataclysm at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. Proved lie. All we can remember is how Marinika went to beg and racket the two new Kovid hospitals, and she's otherwise recalibrating both successful companies and local self-government. However, a coke arrived in Pančevo Marinik, which came directly from Morovic and pecked Marnik into the nose. I ask the judiciary to consider introducing a new crime that is contained in it, it is indeed a newspaper, elements of racketeering and begging. And Marinika was told by her colleague, the unsuspecting Vice-President of Gilas' party, Nikola Jovanovic, who put Marinika on the bike. So, Serbia praises both the foreign state and the media, the Financial Times, wrote about Serbia's success these days to negotiate with both the east and the west, the vaccination of people from the region and the donation of vaccines. Serbia has changed its international reputation for better and has shown the importance of vaccines, diplomacy, soft power, selflessness, altruism. In Serbia, it is already great, already producing Russian vaccines, and a Chinese vaccine factory will also be built. Serbia is an economic leader in the Balkans, but also one of the vaccine leaders in Europe. Dear Ministers, Mr. Mali, you have asked correctly about these antique packages, the great critic of the budget and these three laws, Dusan Nikezic of the SAA – isn't he ashamed to mention, allegedly expensive government debt because of what you have said, Nikezic and the thief's family to whom he belongs, champions in overpriced government debt? Extraordinary. So as you've specified, Mr. Secretary-respecting - during Gilas and his Camaril, the system was simple, contracts, start the job, install and charge the commission, transfer the money to the offshore accounts, and you said you didn't mention how much public debt they owed us in their time, of course. And here's some proof of what you were talking about and that the citizens are hearing and that, Mr. Minister. Djilas's official, Nikezic's great critic, rebalancing critic and this package, became the director of the family and para-state consulting house "CES Mekon" in 2004. Before the SAA, he was a member of the Democratic Party. In the worst government in Serbia's history, in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Djilasov Nikezic was state secretary of the finance ministry. Djilas's father, Dusan Nikezic, was arrested in November 2012 on suspicion that, along with former DS Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin, he had been robbed, to simplify the nitrogen and damaged the state for all small 4.5m euros. The Nikezics were the owners of the consulting, family consulting house “CES Mekon”. Nikezic was an expert consultant at the "Hip of Azotars", while at the same time a plan for the restructuring of the azotars had just worked "CES Mekon", which is amazing. Mirko Cvetkovic, otherwise, was employed in "CES Mekon", at the same time as he was the director of the Privatisation Agency, which has just hired "CES Mekon" to privatise. And it was all established by the Anti-Corruption Council, Verice Barac, who assessed it as a conflict of interest. And as for this Fiscal Council I mentioned, the current President of the Fiscal Council, Mr. Pavle Petrovic, was the director and co-founder of "CES Mekona". I mean, also amazingly, according to the APR business base, Zvonimir Nikezic and his sons, there are three of them, including Dushana were owners of no less than seven of them mainly, consulting firms in Serbia. All these companies made over half a billion in the budget from 2002 to 2012, thanks to the business they had concluded with the state. One of the main clients, I said "CES Mekona" was the Privatisation Agency, and "CES Mekon" took part in the thieving, Vienna privatisation, you will not believe, 57 companies in Serbia and Nikezic were still heard in 2012 for the robbery and the Agrobank affair since he was a member of the UO. Then Gilas's official Dusan Nikezic, chairman of the Gilas Committee on Business and Finance of the SAA, dares to lecture anyone. I'll just remind you of one more fact. Dusan Nikezic is an official of "Multicoma" Gilasovo. So now we see, all the officials of Gilas's main SAA are at the same time employed by his company. How can a politician be free if he works in the company of his party president while he's his official? There's no freedom here. Otherwise, the "Multicom" employs Marinika Tepic, who is otherwise a Romanian philosopher. That's what this company probably needs. Ljuban Panic has been working there, Sasa Vukadinovic, former BIA chief, has been doing the same in "Multicom" for five years, and is in charge, I mentioned this once, it is his main job to eat capreze salad on the Trieste riva. There he works, of course, Dusan Nikezic, Aleksandar Bjelic, a former city manager who has been accused of robbing boulevards and sixm euros. He also works in "Multicom". Of course, you assume what he's in charge of, then the robbery. Not only are they working there, but Tatjana Pasic, former Gilas deputy. And she works in "Multicom" just isn't in charge of anything. You can guess why. Branko Jankovic, former director of Gilas's public procurement agency at the time he was mayor and he is employed in "Multicom". He's in charge of stealing from stores, mostly in pumps, that's his main job, because in early 2020, he was arrested for robbing, stealing candy in a gas station, putting it in his pockets, trying to get out, and it was recorded by the cameras at the pump and then processed. These are Gilas' geniuses who work at his "Multicom". You see what serious functions they have and what serious tasks they have. Gilas is seriously considering that his party is beginning to be called a multi-com party of freedom and justice. I'm sure it's the right thing to do. We welcome that. Now let me get serious. This package of three antique laws is part of the country's noble and superhuman efforts to combat the epidemic. Crisis, wars, catastrophes, and epidemics from people bring out the worst and the best. They are best shown by all those who are united in the fight against monsters and we owe everyone, first of all heroes doctors and all of us owe immense gratitude and respect and this vast majority is led by our President Vukic. The worst in man shows a small but dangerous group of people and a powerful one led by tycoon Gilas. They don't save us, and we understand that in this epidemic, they don't save the lives of patients, antivaccinators, even-earths, conspiracy theorists, doctors, nurses and hygienics, and they prove to be worth more than all the selebrites and the vips together. In Serbia, we all learned together, encouraged by Vucic's leadership to think and live in an invitation. Once again, we are awakened with almost forgotten feelings of gratitude to those in the front row, compassion for the afflicted, admiration for those who solve problems, innovators, and unselfishness that we support each other. Vukic manages our country with compassion, satisfaction, justice and human warmth, according to Oscar Davicho – Serbia, a song among the peoples. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5752	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samir Djosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5753	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, a set of proposals for the finance law that we are discussing today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared to help citizens and businesses to alleviate the consequences of the Kovid pandemic – 19. This is the third package of measures as a financial response to a crisis that does not undermine or continue to take measures to support the population and the economy. The measures entail a 60-euro aid to all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia with an additional 50 euros for all pensioners and an additional 60 euros for unemployed citizens. As for aid to the economy, it refers to the payment of three times a half minimum earnings to entrepreneurs, micro-small, medium, but also to large enterprises, there is also aid to agricultural land and dams that are the most affected. In this way, the state helps both citizens and businesses to overcome this difficult period of crisis caused by the pandemic. However, I believe that the government should further help undeveloped municipalities that are 44 in Serbia, including the municipality of Prepolje from which I come. The economy in the municipality of Prepolje is in a difficult state and is based on small and medium-sized enterprises. I think the government, in accordance with its capabilities, would have to further subsidise the economy in undeveloped municipalities, perhaps through paying off another minimum profit. As well as to the citizens of undeveloped municipalities, additional subsidies should be provided. Namely, the average salary in the municipality of Prepolje is 13,000 lower than the average salary on the republican level. I therefore believe that citizens of the devastated municipalities must also be granted additional relief, for example, through the exemption from the property tax. The property tax law provides an opportunity for 50% of the interest to be written off, but in this situation, interest could be written off entirely on condition that the underlying debt in the wars is settled. Finally, I support all the measures that the government is applying to the recovery of the economy and to help the population in the conditions of the pandemic, but I demand that undeveloped municipalities be further assisted, of course in accordance with the possibilities. In the day to vote, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club will support all draft laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5754	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5755	In front of the SVM parliamentary group, I will briefly refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, as well as the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. As is known, the basic content of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law relates to the taxation of the income of natural persons who earn income from copyright and related rights, as well as to the contracted remuneration for the work done on which the tax is paid only by taxation. Those persons, based on the taxpayer's obligation, will be allowed to settle the tax authority by paying commitments over 10 years in 120 equal monthly amounts. These revenues, which were made in the calendar year, up to 384,000 dinars a year, are not paid on the income tax of citizens. We are pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia reached an agreement yesterday with representatives of the Association of Frillers and the Association of Workers on the Internet on how to pay tax obligations. The government has accepted the association's proposal to increase the normised costs from the existing 43 to 50%, and therefore the bonds that have generated revenues of up to 64,000 dinars do not have a monthly obligation to pay back taxes. As we have already heard from our authorised representative, the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. We believe that the tax legal system must be set up so that the bonds that regularly settle their obligations are not at a loss compared to those who do not. Since it is complex and sensitive matter, the regulation of this law which contributes to legal certainty and creates equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same tax and legal situation. Our parliamentary group also gives support to the draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which refers to precision regarding the determination and payment of contributions on the basis of the agreed fee. At yesterday's meeting, it was also agreed that internet workers, i.e. frillers, should be allowed to enroll a relatively paid part of the obligations, as well as that the deadline for the adoption of all legislation, which will define their future status, should be moved on 1 January 2022. We consider these solutions to be a respected social component, and the question is optimalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5756	Thank you. The word is Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5757	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, pandemic Kovid - 19, caused by the coronary virus is unremembered proportions. The spread of the virus, as its mutations, has resulted in impaired human health, loss of life, means of family life, as well as economic, financial and social consequences. During the entire history of mankind's epidemic, and as the population and pandemics grew, they took their toll and proved themselves mass murderers, because people lost their lives more than in natural disasters, including wars. To this great challenge, I mean the crisis caused by the covid, the states and the communities were responding. Some better, some worse. The response of our country and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this crisis was good and timely. In response to the health crisis by strengthening the health sector, building and rebuilding health infrastructure, timely and primarily by obtaining vaccines, and by supporting the economy with two economic measures in 2020 of around 704 billion dinars. We were able to defend ourselves against the initial shock and demonstrate the state's resilience to the emerging situation. Confirmation that the government's current economic measures gave citizens and businesses positive results in 2020 is also proof that it received praise from the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions. It is important to point out that the budget rebalancing, which we discussed yesterday, is to the greatest extent intended for exactly the coviduum, i.e. The crisis it has caused is a continuation of the state policy that has provided for every citizen and his health, but also for every employee and every company whose activity has been threatened by the pandemic. I will remind you that we have been a country with the lowest GDP decline and with the most comprehensive safeguards in the past year. If we analyse the content of the rebalancing plan, we will see that its priorities are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their health, their standard of living and the preservation of jobs, capital investments and investment in health infrastructure. What makes me a doctor is the fact that investments in the health sector are never higher. Investments in the purchase of vaccines, medicines, medical equipment, and in particular equipment for radionucleid therapy in Serbia, the construction of new birds of hospitals, the construction of a new factory for the production of vaccines, renovation and renovation of many health institutions. Here I would just add, not to forget, when the pandemic passes, health workers, but to think about their standard of living, raising wages, and how my esteemed colleague, Ugljesa Marković, said yesterday, to make sure that we allow them to solve housing problems on favourable terms. Given that no one is, nor will they be able to predict how long this crisis will take and that we have entered another calendar year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to adopt a third economic package of measures to support citizens and an economy worth 249 billion dinars. A set of third package measures means helping entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium, but also large enterprises, full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia and pensioners. The new guarantee scheme is intended primarily for the most endangered activities, which are catering work, hotel service, tourist agencies, passenger transport sector, road transport and others. Unlike the first two packages, these third ones also covered the assistance of large enterprises that also suffered the financial consequences of the pandemic. The package will provide an additional 500m euros for businessmen through a guarantee scheme and an extension of its duration to provide additional liquidity to the economy. All three packages amount to 953 billion dinars, or 8 billion euros, totaling 17.2% of GDP. In simple terms, it is a measure of support for citizens and economics to resuscitate the effects of the pandemic crisis. Given that there has been a decline in income in certain economic sectors and that the liquidity of certain economic operators has been compromised and all caused by the extension of the pandemic crisis, the need for revitalisation and support of the state has emerged. This is also the reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes the Law amending the Law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the pandemic of Kovid-19 caused by the SARS KOV-2 virus, as well as the proposal for a law on the establishment of another guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support for the economy due to the negative impact of the pandemic. With these bill proposals, the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle the bank's claims as a guarantee based on the approval of loans by liquidity finance banks and crafts assets for crediting the economy. This is an extremely efficient mechanism for the launch of credit activities, to preserve the permanent liquidity of enterprises and, most importantly, the consequences of the adoption of these laws will give positive economic results. Guarantee schemes are necessary to continue the undertaken targets to support the economy. The purpose of the loan is exclusively for the financing of liquidity and crafts, and the possibility of refinancing and temporary repayment of the non-profits of existing loans, as well as the refinancing of loans to other banks, has been excluded. The guarantee scheme will not be able to use enterprises that were in difficulty in 2019, which have achieved achievements, rather than the reconciled corporate tax obligations, in which the Republic of Serbia or AP or local self-government have over 50%. In one word, the state decided to preserve the liquidity of the economic sector, to extend the existing guarantee scheme and establish a new guarantee scheme to support the most vulnerable companies. The extension of the guarantee scheme carries two major changes. The first refers to maximum credit values that banks can place with the state guarantee and increase by 500m euros, and will total 2.5 billion euros, and the second change concerns the period of availability of these loans, as they will be available by 30 June next year. The extension of existing guarantee schemes does not alter the conditions of similarity, so that all entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who meet the conditions laid down by the Guarantee Scheme Act, can apply for these loans. Another guarantee scheme is set up for all companies from the vulnerable sectors, as well as companies from other sectors that had several revenues higher than 20% last year. Credits covered by the existing guarantee scheme are given for a period of up to 36 months and a mandatory grace period of nine to 12 months. Credits covered by another guarantee scheme are given for a period of up to 60 months with a grace period of 18 to 25 months. I hope we all vote for this bill, which will be the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day and will do. In the end, we are only left to fight in the coming period as quickly and in the largest number of vaccines, and we can say that this country, our Serbia, and in health and economic terms, are extremely successful in fighting the crisis caused by Kovida, as a rare country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5758	Thank you. National MP Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5759	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is always most important to me, the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, as the minister said at the beginning, yesterday's and today's agenda points are connected, so I will try to speak of them unitedly. Of course, I'll bear in mind that my fellow MPs should speak after me, too, so I'll look to cut as short as possible. What I see here and most positively, is that in these difficult moments, which have reached the whole world, not only Serbia, Serbia still aims to have 6% of GDP growth this year and to be, if not the first in Europe, surely among the first in Europe. What matters most to our citizens is that we continue to invest. So we continue to build roads, continue to build hospitals, continue to create new jobs and, of course, help our citizens, which in a health sense, which in a monetary sense. As many as 430 billion will Serbia invest in investment this year, which is fantastic news for me and which shows that Serbia can develop in these difficult moments only if it is run by people who know they are struggling in difficult situations. We increase the salaries of our army, our soldiers we love, we increase the salaries of our medical workers, we increase pensions, and most importantly, these pensions are now regular. It brings peace and stability and security. I have to say something that's obvious to me. We as a people have to get rid of that loser mentality. We're used to always being the last in Europe for everything except sports, of course. This Serbia is no longer Serbia from the 1990s and twenty-thousands. We have to move from that loser mentality to the winner. Because when I say we'll be the first in Europe to grow GDP, someone laughs or turns their eyes. It's not that old Serbia anymore, because this Serbia has been making so much progress that it's even a thorn in the eye of some foreigners. Because how is this little Serbia we've been trampling and bombing going so far? I always say, someone can agree with us or disagree, vote or not vote for us, it doesn't matter, but the results and actions no one can argue with us. No one can deny us a single meter of highway we built, not a single hospital room we've taken care of, not a single job we've opened. Serbia is now building a covid hospital in four months. If someone had told me ten years ago that Serbia would be building a covid hospital in four months, I honestly wouldn't have trusted him. I'm glad it's reality today. I guarantee you, if someone else were in power, our predecessors wouldn't even finish the paperwork in four months, let alone the whole hospital. This investment in health care is perhaps the most important thing for our citizens. Although it may not sound like that when you get a gamma knife like when you get a plane, as you say - a healthy man has a thousand wishes, and a sick man only has one. Serbia will receive a covid vaccine factory this year. That's amazing news. It is news that puts Serbia on the world map because many countries in the world and in Europe do not have such a factory. Just imagine if we had that factory a year ago how much the health of our citizens would have been improved and how many billions of euros would have been in our budget, and that would have been in our citizens' pockets. As far as vaccination is concerned, I must say that we are running a really smart policy, not only have we obtained vaccines, but we also see by sharing vaccines with our neighbours that we are an absolute leader in the Balkans. No country in the world does that. It's a smart foreign policy, but it's also proof that Serbia is concerned with peace policy, stability, future policy, because all those vaccines we've shared have saved at least one life. So is there a better gesture than when you save the life of a neighbor who's nothing but a neighbor who's ever been against you? It is also another reason for Serbia to be many now, many foreigners thorned in the eye. What our citizens will be most interested in, what makes them most happy is this financial aid. So all citizens in Serbia will get 60 euros, unemployed another 60, and our pensioners who built this country another 50 euros on that figure, but what I prefer is that our people in Kosovo and Metohija will get another 100 euros on that figure, or 200 if they are unemployed. It is a sign that our economy is healthy, but it is also a sign of how much we think and how much we love our people in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, when this pandemic started, I read that people in the West have a hard time putting up with quarantine and isolation, they have to go consult with a psychologist. Well, you gentlemen from the west wouldn't last 20 minutes of isolation that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been suffering for 20 years. We've been listening, here, for eight years now, how are we going to betray Kosovo, how are we going to sign independence, how is this going to happen to this or that red letter, the next Easter or so, and now that they've spent all the red letters in the calendar, I ask them -- and where is it? When are we going to recognise Kosovo and Metohija? And as they speak, the people of Kosovo and Metohija vote almost 90% for SNS and Alexander Vukic. So how can you from the Belgrade circle of two know better from your apartments, where the square is worth several thousand euros, what is better for our people in Kosovo and Metohija than themselves? And as they say it, we here watch how to help them, both financially and in any other way. As they speak, our government and the MPs here fight to help them. That's how he fights for our people. So the SNS is fighting for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, so Serbia is fighting for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and not just for them, but for the whole people, and we will continue to fight like this to create Serbia under our beautiful flag, which we are all proud of. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5760	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has a folk letter, Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5762	Fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda today, we have a set of laws in the area of finance. I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The income tax regulates the taxation of citizens' incomes obtained on all grounds, i.e. from all sources, except those excluded by this law. Income of citizens is accounted for on an annual basis, i.e. for the fiscal year. Let's remind ourselves who's the payer of the annual income tax. These are natural persons who in the calendar year made their income more than triple the average annual earnings, according to an employee paid in the Republic of Serbia, in the year for which the tax is determined and those resident for income achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in another country, non-residents for the income of citizens achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The resident of the Republic of Serbia is a natural person who has a residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia or a centre of business and life interests or on the territory of the Republic of Serbia continuously or with interruptions stays 183 or more days in a 12-month period, which begins or ends in the tax year. If individuals earn income by working for legal or natural persons who do not have representation, or a branch in Serbia, they are obliged to account for taxes themselves. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to simplify the process of determining the taxpayer's tax liability, which generates labour-based income, on which the tax is paid by self-taxation. The decision proposed by amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act refers to the precision of the tax obligations of individuals performing certain activities, i.e. jobs, and the tax obligations are carried out by a self-taxation method. It's about solutions relating to the so-called frillers, i.e. freemen who are residents of the Republic of Serbia, and as natural persons, can work for companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia via the Internet and using electronic communications. These are mainly the work of designers, translators, illustrators, marketing experts and similar professions, which can be done through electronic communications. They provide foreign language lessons, translation, promotions, software development services, and jobs are found on various digital platforms for professional networking. Most often they get money from the engagements in their foreign exchange accounts or via specialized payment cards, and most of them have signed contracts on the work with the company or the person who hires them. Freelensers are the Income Tax Act, which determines the obligation of all citizens to pay income tax, in accordance with the conditions laid down by the law covered, as well as all other citizens who are subject to this obligation. Such legal solutions exist in many European legislations. These amendments to the law specify the tax rate established for the frillers for the previous period, starting from 1 January 2015 to 30 September 2021, but based on yesterday's agreement between the government and the representatives of the Frillers Association, the deadline has been moved to 1 January 2022. The basis for paying taxes is the income obtained on the basis of copyright and related rights and contracted work fees, on which the tax is paid by self-taxation. Regarding the proposed solutions, as I noted, the frillers reached an agreement yesterday with the government's representatives, so more changes will take place. One of the changes is to tax part of the frillers' income by taxing annual incomes of over 768 thousand, not as in a proposal of 384 thousand dinars. Another relief is provided by law, and this is a tax deduction based on the normised costs of 43% of the bill, and now, after the agreement reached, it increases to 50%. Therefore, the tax liability to be charged to the frillers on the amount of income from the remaining 50% of the income achieved will be able to be paid at 120 equal months of war, in the next 10 years this debt should be settled, which we must admit is a great benefit. In addition to the obligations of a natural person who generates income from abroad, it is for them to submit a tax application within 30 days of each individual income obtained and to pay a corresponding tax and contribution. There are two ways in which a bill is made for paying the taxes of natural persons. The basic difference is whether a natural person has an additional job or is unemployed. The tax base is reduced by normised costs and thus the tax is calculated at a rate of 20% and the contribution to pension disability insurance at 25.5% when the person is employed. If the person is not employed, a contribution to health insurance is calculated at a rate of 10.3%, according to a new agreement, it will allow the enrollment of the work experience to those frillers, relatively paid part of the obligation. Tax taxpayers have the right to reduce the obligation to tax, which was paid in another country when they paid taxes on that income in that country. Tax returns can be filed in two ways. In electronic form via the E-tax portal and in this way it is necessary to have an electronic certificate. Internet kiosks that exist in tax administration branches can be used to submit tax returns to this route, after which the tax administration determines the accuracy of those data. In the paper form directly to the competent tax authority according to the place of residence and then you submit the tax application either personally or through the proxies authorised to file a tax application and to take over the application action. In the Republic of Serbia, 2.2 million citizens pay taxes and contributions. With these changes, we must raise the awareness of all citizens in Serbia that we must all pay taxes. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore support all drafts of the law on the agenda in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5763	Thank you. The word is Goran Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5764	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens of Serbia. Today on the agenda there is a set of laws that will facilitate everything we had on the agenda yesterday as a budget rebalance. It is my duty to say for the citizens of Serbia why I and my colleagues will support, and why they support citizens of the municipality from which I come and the citizens of Mladenec why they reacted yesterday, I would say for the first time so positively to the developments in the National Assembly when it comes to the agenda, the adoption of the budget, because there are always different budgets, and budget and budget rebalances, are always the possibility of making various conclusions, to think whether something could have been different or could have been otherwise packed, presented to the people. However, citizens yesterday accompanied a complete discussion and what fascinated them that this budget rebalance was absolutely done in line with the needs and interests of the citizens and the Mladenvec and our country. What we heard yesterday in some comments from my colleagues was that the minister had changed certain things and habits when it came to finance and presenting it to the citizens and it was absolutely correct and correct and you left very little space for us MPs. That's why in our conversation with citizens, we're transferring that citizens want that kind of rebalancing right now, that's exactly what they want, and that's exactly what they want right now in the National Assembly, and they don't have any dilemma about how and how it works in their interest. Yesterday we heard comments that you had a dialogue with the Fiscal Council. I wouldn't say anything else, the citizens understood when it came to your question – and what it was meant to do and for whom it was meant to bring both the budget and the rebalancing and all that we did in the past few months, was done exclusively in the interests of the Serbian citizens. That is why we are here today in relation to everyone else, especially in the environment, and also in relation to many countries in the region and in this battle with a widow who is indeed, we have said it several times, indeed a disaster of biblical proportions. I must honestly say, I have many friends both in the region and relatives abroad and in the diaspora that live. I felt proud. There's no one who hasn't called and asked if he could come to us to vaccinate, whether or not we're dealing with these problems. How is it possible for a Serbia presented to a completely different light in Europe and the world to be this successful in this fight? That's because our country is headed by our president and headed by this government and I can say freely with this Parliament in which we have agreed to work together to solve all problems, do many quality things and much before others. It is that it may bother others a little bit, but there is no Serb or no man in our country who, compared to everyone else, cannot say that we are far better and far more successful. To be honest, for the first time, when they commented on these subsidies and measures to the citizens, compared to 6,200,000, I am sure that a large number of people working abroad have used that right, and it has been reported to us to raise those 100 euros. Not to mention the people who work in these independent regulatory bodies and the fiscal council, I'm sure they are. Isn't it a little cynical? I wouldn't comment more on the Fiscal Council, that would leave it to my colleague, Veroljub Arsic. He's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing great, he's doing And that is one of the things that Serbian citizens have noticed, that what they want to confuse the public and to present a completely different policy of the government and the finance ministry and this parliament, is to explain in the right way that it is not a message from experts, that it is more a political message than anything else. What I have to say and what made a special impression. These 257 billion-dollar measures have no one they haven't touched and who isn't covered by them. There is no citizen of the Young Man who has not felt in an indirect or direct way. I'll just say that we have 6,000 registered agricultural holdings on the territory of the Mladenovac municipality. Subsidies amounting to over 5 billion have just been used for these things. When we came to the opportunity and the situation that these farmers at some point think they will not be able to achieve their right or subsidies to which they are seriously counting, which are crucial in their dealings, their lives and their work, because these are large families, not just individuals, the state has found ways, found the possibility and came across. These are things that restore trust in agricultural production, these are things that restore confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia and that should be continued to be done. Of course, whether it's enough and whether it needs to be done yet, it's no dilemma at all, but the message is important that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the country's opportunities and financial stability, helps and comes out to Serbia's citizens. If that wasn't the way it was for us to get the respirators first, if we hadn't been able to get the vaccines first and do all of this, the question is what and how would happen to our country. Fortunately for us and fortunately for all of Serbia's citizens, I have the impression that slowly in this fight with the pig, we are going out in the best possible way and I think we will succeed among the first to consolidate and take the starting position in events, both financially and economically, in the region and in Europe, and to be ahead. I ask and appeal to all citizens who have not taken advantage of the possibility to receive any vaccine, to do so as soon as possible. In this way, we will allow our country to take precedence over others. What is also very important to me, and a good sign and a spring book, is that there was room and opportunity in this rebalancing to help athletes and sportsmen. Why does it matter? We didn't talk much about it here, or a few things were mentioned, and it's very important to me, because it's a signal and a sign that we're slowly going back to normal life. Sports is the best and most important prevention, and not to mention something that can make us even better and more independent. Look at the number of international competitions we have foreseen with this budget rebalance, we have had an organization, and I have to point out this, especially that we also had a world championship in wrestling in Kovid, which has been unprobably organised and given an opportunity to our sports workers, were invited from many European and world institutions to participate in the organization. It's all thanks to these things and the measures we do. The large funds are defined for the Olympic and Parolimpic alliance, for the Sports Union of Serbia, for international competitions, World Boxing Championships, Athletics, and not to list all the competitions that await us in the coming period. All we have left is our responsibility and our dedicated work to show that in the coming period, we want to achieve even better results together. We show it every day and citizens feel it every day. I sincerely hope that, if not, among the best, we will be able to get out of this big crisis, and at the end of my speech, say one thing in particular, ask and appeal to all the citizens and all the athletes who haven't done it yet, to vaccinate and slowly return to the field audience, that we can organize competitions as they used to be, and that we can all go back to the best life and work together. Because of this attitude and the views of the citizens and of the Youth and of our entire country, I will certainly support all of this in the voting day, in the desire that we will find our way out of this crisis in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5765	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5766	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs, today we have a set of laws in front of us as a measure of support for businesses and citizens to alleviate the pandemic caused by the SARS CoV-2 virus that causes Kovid 19 disease. The coronary virus pandemic has put ahead of Serbia's economic policy as well as the rest in front of all the countries around the world a difficult challenge to preserve economic activity, to preserve living standards, to preserve the lives and health of Serbian citizens. The responsible state of Serbia headed by the responsible president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and thanks to good economic policy, the budget has made it possible for this year's third package of measures to support the economy and support citizens for the mitigation of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. We had two packages of these measures in 2020, in May and October, which allowed us to curb the dramatic fall of our economic activity to enable good liquidity, to provide living standards for our citizens and to enable production capacities. We have shown that the government policy is responsible for a public debt of less than 60%. This was set before the state of Serbia in 2014, as the goal of the then prime minister, and the current president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who led the government and found the debt only in 2014, was 75%. With bold and strong determined struggle, he managed to boost the economy and economy of the Republic of Serbia, and we see its results today. We see through a public debt that is smaller than a mastrix, we see that unemployment in Serbia is at 9%, we see that the number of employees is 400,000 higher than in 2009, we see it through highways, because the number of miles of highways built in the last five years is higher than it was in the last 50. We also see through direct foreign investment, as Serbia had in 2020 gross 3.2 billion euros of foreign direct investment, making it twice as much as the total total of all foreign investments, all countries in the region. Serbia fights on two fronts against the pandemic. Fight on the front of the economy, fight on the front of health. He struggles with mass vaccination, thanks to the president of the Republic of Serbia, who in time has ensured that our Serbia gets the total number of vaccines for all citizens of this Serbia and four different producers, which places us in four countries of the world that have such a choice of vaccines. We are aware that we have vaccinated 3.6 million people in one dose or another, that this week we have another 130,000 Sputnik V vaccines, 112,000 Faiser vaccines, and we expect another half a million Sinopharm vaccines. This places us in the first five countries of the world with a total number of vaccinated citizens in one country, and that is in addition to Israel, the United States, Chile and Bahrain. Many countries cannot boast of what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic did. Two days ago, Serbia was visited by the director of the World Health Organisation for Europe, Hans Kluge, and praised Serbia and its leadership in the fight against the pandemic caused by the Coronation Virus because it had mass vaccination, provided sufficient amounts of vaccines, mobilization of health workers who are fighting the Coronation Virus and who built two hospitals in record time, and we know that the construction of a third in Novi Sad in ten days. Also, many countries cannot boast of this. That's what sets Serbia to the very top of the health scale. What we can say and repeat n times, as we have repeated today that Serbian citizens will be able to receive assistance in a third package of 257 billion dinars. We had a planned deficit in the first quarter that should be 80.9 billion dinars. Our achieved deficit is 23.7 billion dinars, which shows that in the first quarter we had a 500m-euro better score, which allows us to have a third package of measures. The third package of measures will also include employees of large companies, which account for 300,000, who will receive a total of 1.550,000 state aid in the form of two full minimum wagers in addition to employees of entrepreneurs and employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. This will include workers, independent artists, hotel workers, catering, as well as autocarers. Our citizens, 600,000 of them, will receive 60 euros in aid, whose payment will go to two equal wars, May and October, and in addition, 1,700,000 pensioners will receive additional aid for another 50 euros, making up a total for pensioners of 110 euros. This includes the unemployed, i.e. all persons on April 15th at the NZS, who will receive an additional 60 euros. Our citizens at KIM, an additional 100 euros, and 200 euros, those who are not employed. That's what Serbia is doing, Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. For this reason, and all the praise Serbia receives from Europe and the world for its fight against the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, there is a group of people led by Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Obradovic and Jeremic, whose only goal is to bring down Vukic, bring down a stable economy of Serbia and take over all these merits. I'm also afraid to think that Serbia would look like this unfortunate pandemic found us at the time when they were in power, when they emptied the budget, they wouldn't have vaccines, they wouldn't have built hospitals, we couldn't get respirators. Serbia today is a great force, a great force because we plan to build a plant that will produce vaccines against the coronary of the virus, and we plan to restore "Torak" and invest in it 100,000 euros, so that "Torak" produces a four-valent vaccine against influenza virus, namely the flu virus, which is indeed classified as a major force on the health scale, since only two countries, which are France and England, have this vaccine. What Dostoyevsky said, which is, "When you lose a fortune, you haven't lost everything, but when you lose your health, you lose everything. "Therefore, even stronger in mass immunisation to defeat Serbia, to win life for an even stronger and better Serbia for all our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5767	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5768	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I, as well as my fellow MPs, Alexander Vukic - For our children, will support the set of economic laws we are discussing today, as well as the budget rebalancing that was on the agenda yesterday. These laws are very important in order to provide the state with adequate economic mechanisms to combat the crown of the crisis, the coronary crisis, which is a follow-up to an epidemic of the coronary virus, has affected almost every country in the world and has imposed the need to monitor economic parameters daily and respond adequately using all available fiscal and monetary instruments. We see that those countries that have wise leadership, such as in Serbia, those countries that have enough money to do so and those countries that have a consensus on key national goals are much easier and much better going through the crisis. Those countries where there is no consensus on key national issues and which have gone into crisis with a large public debt are much harder to go through this crisis, and it will be even harder when the crisis is over and new economic and international political relations occur. Serbia, thank God, led by President Aleksandar Vukic during the Coronal Virus epidemic and the time of the economic crisis that this epidemic caused and last 2020, we ended up with the smallest GDP decline in Europe, only 1%. Citizens who do not think about numbers can easily notice that there was no drop in economic activity in Serbia, nor did unemployment grow. On the contrary, unemployment was 10.4% in 2019, and in 2020 only 9%, it was single-digit. The average earnings in the Republic in 2020 amounted to 560 euros. In 2020, Serbia successfully implemented two packages of measures to help citizens and businesses, and today we are deciding to implement a third package of measures. This package, like the previous two, is aimed at both the public and the economy. All those citizens who apply for direct state aid through the Treasury or Centre portal can count on a 60-euro aid, twice 30 euros each. Pensioners will receive an additional 50 euros, while the unemployed will receive an additional 60 euros. We are particularly concerned about our citizens at KIM who will receive an additional 100-euro aid, while the unemployed will receive an additional 200-euro aid. It is clear to all of us that this assistance will also help citizens because it will increase domestic demand. The help of the economy is direct, but also through guarantee schemes. Direct aid to the economy concerns general aid to all economic operators, but also to sectoral assistance to those economic operators most at risk to the pandemic. All economic operators in Serbia, meaning both entrepreneurs and micro, small, medium and large enterprises, will absolutely all of the country receive three times 50% minimum earnings. It's April, May and June this year. In addition, sectors most threatened by the pandemic of the virus's coronarys, which are hospitality, tourism and passenger transport, can also count on additional assistance. In July and August, catering and tourism will receive another total profit, while city hotels will receive 350 euros in assistance per bed and 150 euros per room. That, then, is at least 500 euros per room. Carriers will receive assistance six times this year at 600 euros per bus. When we add all the aid that this country has given to citizens and businesses in the first two packages of measures and will be given in the third package of measures, we come to the volume of 17.2% of GDP, which put the state in line with the countries that helped their economy and citizens the most. In addition to direct aid to the economy, there is also assistance through a guarantee scheme that may be more important than this direct aid, because it is the state that is causing private banks to engage their funds and pump them into economic flows. The first guarantee scheme adopted last year was two billion euros, and you, ministers, told us earlier that a billion and 700m euros from the scheme had already been committed. That is why we extend the first guarantee scheme by 500m euros. In addition to the first guarantee scheme intended for all economic operators today, we also adopt a second guarantee scheme worth 500m euros intended for those sectors most affected by the crisis. There's a state guarantee for banks, but it's also a bigger grace period and more war payouts. In addition to all this assistance, businesses and citizens certainly have a positive impact on the economic flows in our country on the biggest investment cycle this country has ever seen. We are aware that in this year, the Republic of Serbia is already building four highways, with four more starting by the end of the year, eight in total. When could anyone in this country imagine that our Republic of Serbia would build eight highways in one year? To mention that highway that may be the most important to the citizens of the city from which I come, which is the highway Nis – Merdare, i.e. the highway that will connect Nis with the port on the southern Adriatic which is soon moving to build. I would also single out the Moravia Corridor that will bring the southeast together with the southwest of our country, i.e. Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. That's not all. Our country invests in absolutely every city and municipality in this country. Every citizen in any village, municipality or city will have a water and sewerage network by 2025, and it is no longer a matter of will, desire or money. The will and desire exist, shown in the programme "Serbia 2025", money exists, is provided for it, and the speed of the work depends solely on local self-government and their ability and speed to prepare project documentation and compete with the state. Serbia is actively investing in its health system as well. In 2020, we built two brand-new bird hospitals, and soon we're going to build a third. Serbia is the leader in the process of obtaining vaccines on the world market, the leader in the vaccination process, and soon becomes the leader in the production of vaccines. We have already started producing Russia's Sputnik V vaccines at the Torak Institute, in which additional funds will be invested, and we will build a brand-new vaccine factory where we will produce Chinese Sinofarm vaccine and Serbia will have enough vaccines not only for all its citizens, but also for the entire region of Southeast Europe. Serbia is also a leader in attracting foreign direct investment. In 2020, no foreign investor gave up investing in Serbia. We have attracted 3.1 billion euros, which is twice as much as all other countries in the Western Balkans region, but Serbia wants more. So we continue with active economic policy measures, continue to attract foreign direct investment, because Serbia is a country that is eager for development, is eager for more new factories and even more jobs. They repeat once again, as well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support all economic laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5769	Thank you. The word is Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5770	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is the reason for the adoption of an amendment to the Law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for economies to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, aimed at easing economic and financial consequences. The third economic package will provide an additional 500m euros for businesses to provide additional liquidity. The aid shall be granted to economic operators for the financing of liquidity and crafts assets whose activity has been suspended or made significantly more difficult. The Republic of Serbia is making a commitment as a guarantee to banks. The objective of the measure of the third package is to assist economic operators during and after the termination of this so-called emergency situation, in order to prevent liquidity and layoff of employees. The repayment of credit cannot be longer than 36 months, a grace period of between nine and 12 months, except in the event of a change in moratorium introduced by the National Bank regulations. The credit is in circulation for 30 days, as far as new loans are concerned, and six months for renewed loans. The guarantee scheme, as it is said, is an economic support measure through a portfolio guarantee to mitigate the effects of the pandemic Kovid-19. Portfolio is a set of individual guarantees from the Republic of Serbia. She's unconditional, paid on the first call and issued in favour of the bank. The Republic of Serbia undertakes to provide in the budget the appropriate resources necessary to fulfil commitments undertaken on the basis of guarantees. The maximum allowable amount shall be calculated as a product of secured individual rate portfolios, 80 % coverage rates and maximum guarantee rates 32 %. In the beginning of the repayment of the loan, the individual guarantee shall be subsectically reduced and proportionately reduced by the principals provided by the portfolio. Persons who cannot be credit beneficiaries of the guarantee scheme were persons who were in difficulty on 29 February 2020 or had unmistakable obligations. Two, persons who have unmistakable tax-based obligations, those whom the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, an autonomous province, owns more than 10%. Under four, users whose debts were in the status of unmistakable liabilities or under which the bank took restructuring measures in the period from 12 months before 29 February 2020, companies subject to contractual financial restructuring, for example, to the emergency liquidation procedure and persons already subject to a guaranteed scheme loan under this law. Persons who can be credit users provided with a guarantee from a tariff scheme are persons based in the Republic of Serbia, including agricultural holdings registered in the APR, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, in accordance with the law governing accounting. Under two, persons based in the Republic of Serbia registered in the APR, who have a decline in business revenues of more than 20% in 2020. The criteria prescribed do not apply to the following persons. These are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the passenger transport sector, catering, tourist agencies, hotelers. The bank is obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia on the implementation of the guarantee scheme under the law, and the control of this law is carried out and carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The third aid package for the economy and citizens is worth 257 billion dinars and minimum earnings for the month of March, April and June are within it. The state's direct support of 50% minimum wage for three months will receive a total of 1.505.093 entrepreneurs and employees in micro, small, medium and large enterprises. Businesses are obliged not to reduce the number of employees and cannot pay off these pairs of dividends. This package includes large enterprises, but not banks and financial institutions. In addition to one and a half minimumers, in support of another full minimumer will receive hosts, tourist agencies, licensed tourist guides, escorts, hotels, resorts and rent-car agencies. The majority of citizens, with 6.2 million, will receive a new 60 euros, and the payment will go to two wars in May and November. Pensioners will receive an additional 50 euros and an unemployed additional 60 euros. Many-year-olds will be able to apply for financial assistance from April 28th to May 15th, electronically, via the Treasury or telephone portal. Serbia's president promised a factory that would revive this part of eastern Serbia during his recent stay in Ruden Glava, during the vaccination in this village. The responsible president shall keep his promises. The drive of the company Jumko from Vranja will be built in the centre of Rudna Glava and around a hundred women from the region will be employed in this plant. Land work for setting the foundation for the future factory has been launched, and construction of this facility is scheduled to be completed successfully by Vidovdan. The contest for the reception of workers has already been called and applications are received daily. Maestroly leading our President Alexander Vukic's foreign policy has resulted in today's Serbia having powerful and influential friends in the EU as it has in Russia and China. That's what four kinds of vaccines are talking about for our citizens and not just for our citizens, but for our citizens from the region. There is no state in the region that Serbia has not helped donate various vaccines of significant doses. By reviving "Torlaka" Serbia can count on the production of 30 million units of vaccine, thus becoming the first European country, except Russia, which produces Sputnik V vaccines. I note, last week the first 1,100 doses of vaccines were sent to Russia for quality checks. Except that our country is visited by citizens of neighbouring countries for vaccination, Serbia is visited by citizens of Germany, Austria, Switzerland for the same reason. The world is talking about successful immunization of our country. Apart from the production of Sputnik V, “Torak” will produce other vaccines that will be sold and we already have demand from all over the world. "Torak" will be the third producer in the world to make a four-valent vaccine against seasonal flu. While our country is successfully fighting the pandemic, much better than the larger and more powerful countries of Europe and the world, our opposition is fighting amongst itself who is the leader and who would be the candidate for the presidential election, but if they could just walk into the presidency, without elections and without citizens of Serbia. Sam Boško Obradovica, like, yeah, the new face, there is Mrs. Preflightevic Marinika Tepic. But she's not a new face. The search for a new face is very intense. It is not new that Gilas and Vuk Jeremic are not suffering, so much so that Gilas tried to break up the People's Party. The Wolf of Jeremic will never forget that. Bosko, every once in a while, threatens to leave them because, as he says, he is a new and untapped face. They can't even agree on their candidates for dialogue, and the elections will be seen. There's a big 3% to go over the census. In order to remember, on April 17th, the municipal leadership of the city's municipality of Zemun attended the parastos and the laying of wreaths on the grave of innocentally injured girls in NATO bombing Milica Rakic. A three-year-old girl tragically lost her life and became the eternal symbol of the victim. Its monument is located in the Tasmajdan Park in Belgrade and is a monument to its suffering children victims of the "merciful angel" action. The Serbian Orthodox Church has launched an initiative to make Milica Rakic a saint. In the day of the vote, I will support this bill, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5771	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5772	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, at today's session, we are considering budget rebalances and accompanying financial regulations, with budget rebalances in 2021. Yesterday, one of the MPs said, "It's a little unusual to be rebalancing now." I believe that budget rebalancing and accompanying financial laws should be changed whenever there is a need for this, and we should do so responsibly, in the interest of citizens, in the interest of the economy, and especially if the rebalancing, in addition, is allocated to surplus revenues in relation to the planned revenue. So the state works well, collects taxes and other obligations, and thus the economy works well. What I want to focus on is agriculture, because I come from areas where agriculture is well developed, where there is a need to invest in agriculture, to help farmers. This rebalancing has given new 5.5 billion and this is an increase in the agricultural budget by 10.43%. A serious increase. When the funds are collected, which were foreseen by the original budget and the rebalance, it is 58.3 billion for Serbia's agriculture, which is 5% of the total budget this year, and that was our goal, to reach that 5% this year. In the context of the entire agriculture, I would like to say something today that I think is very important and that it interests our farmers, especially in certain areas. Opposite protection or protection of our farm or factory in the open sky. This country has set out to automate anti-urban protection against the manual part, i.e. the manual part and that automation in anti-urban protection wherever it is done has proved to be much more efficient and better in terms of the protection of agricultural crops. The state will continue to finance automation and I think that all parts of Serbia will receive an automated anti-building protection system. The second aspect of the protection of agriculture is through insurance in agriculture, i.e. agricultural crops. The combination of good anti-urban protection and agriculture insurance is the best combination. However, very often it happens that our agricultural producers are not financially prepared enough to secure their agricultural crops, fruits and vineyards and simply run out of that type of insurance, and we happen to have a city in that period, which destroys our agricultural crops. That's why there's a state that needs to help, and it helps, the agricultural insurance premiums to reach a certain percentage. One area in Serbia deserves special attention, and it is a masculine and sremic district. The two districts are located on the border of BiH and part of Croatia, and on the other hand Drina is a weak anti-building protection, so that the masculine and srem district are the most endangered, because we do not have anti-urban protection that can prevent the city sooner than it comes to that territory. It's our first line where the city attacks, given some analysis over the last 10 to 15 years, these are the two districts most endangered by the city. In these two counties, agricultural crops should be provided the most. However, the masculine and collubary districts are not in those areas that get 70% of the insurance premium, and my suggestion is that we simply through this rebalance and these funds that we get, subsequently, include that part, so that we protect our agriculture in these parts. I'll say for a short while, if we look at the relief part of those two districts, here we have the plain of Srema, the Swords, we have Pobrje, Podrinje, Posavotamnave, Tamnave, we have one fine area of Asbukovica and Radjevina, we have the Sokol Mountains, Jagodnja, Cer, Fruska Gora, the cut-off rivers of Ljubovadi, Jadrom, Tamnava, Sava and rested on Drina. Just when you say that, you see what can be done in those parts about agriculture, and I think insurance in agriculture should be at 70% in those parts. This agriculture is at risk of these risks and funding by the state through this rebalancing and through certain acts brought by the government should simply be within those districts that are particularly protected. I won't talk too much today, I think my colleagues said a lot about all the other areas, I was just talking about one little segment getting from budget rebalances and follow-up laws. I think this is a great move by the president of the state and our government for all of Serbia. Good luck and thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5773	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5774	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Mali, honourable fellow MPs, these are very difficult times in which we live and must balance between the preservation of life and the health of citizens and the restoration of progress and economy. Fortunately, the head of this country is President Aleksandar Vukic who, not only likes to work, but also knows what he's doing. He makes us the winners of the losers and raises the reputation of Serbia, that other countries now look up to us. Serbia has become a responsible state that cares about the health and life of its citizens, as well as its economy. We were hoping and wishing the pandemic would stop last year. Since this has not happened, the Kovid continues to hara, which is why the state of Serbia is paying 60 euros to help all full-time people who apply from April 28th to May 15th, not counting pensioners and social aid recipients who go for automation and do not need to apply. It also helps businesses through a guarantee scheme that was formed last year, worth two billion euros. The state will be a guarantee for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, to help overcome this, not only health care but also a major economic crisis. The banks provide 1.7 billion euros to finance the liquidity of craft and another 500 million to the most vulnerable. By amending the law, it changes the time limit until loans have to be released, which is July 31st 2022 and the grace period is now from 18 to 24 months with a 60-month repayment period, while the previous guarantee scheme was at 36 months and grace between nine and 12 months. The proposal for a law to confirm the agreement and to encourage investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States further encourages the two countries' economic co-operation through the expansion of the offer of financial instruments by the International Development Corporation of the DFC to develop the economy of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you have to say because it's absolutely true. President Vukic knows how to make friends and that he is appreciated by great and powerful statesmen. He became a friend of great and powerful men and brought back our country's reputation, so if he hadn't done anything else, it was a huge thing. We must not forget how much we Serbs were anathemized. Only true quality and charismatic people can do that. So thanks to the president's visit to America, the DFC came to Serbia and Serbia is the first in the region and among the first in the world to make this kind of agreement. His reputation in the world and friendship with the powerful statesmen of the world have enabled our businessmen a wide range of financial instruments offered by the International Development Financial Corporation. Worse and worse, it actually secures our country's economic development and creates benefits for new investments. For our citizens, that means new jobs and a better standard of living. I'm really sorry, because the whole world has hit this pandemic, because if it wasn't for that we would be recorded, primarily you, Minister Mali, as someone whose GDP curved time is going up. But that's the situation that we had to get vaccines too, so we got four kinds of vaccines at the time of a huge shortage, then hospital equipment, oxygen, labs, and all of the hospitals and clinical centres. It's all costing. The state of Serbia has invested, for example. 18m euros in the Tolak Institute to start producing a vaccine against the coronary virus and in the future it will be able to export to the countries of the region. Serbia is the first European country to start producing the Russian vaccine "Sputnik V". The first doses come out from June 5th to June 10th, and in the second phase by the end of the year, we will be able to produce vaccines on our own. Now you still don't know either "Sputnik V" or it's "Sinofarm". It means a lot that we don't depend on anyone. And in this general shortage of vaccines and in high demand, whether they send us vaccines or not. Of course, the state paid all vaccines neatly, and it's important that the citizens know that we don't get anything on a gift from anyone. Serbian citizens should not forget how important it is and how happy they are to have the choice. Nowhere in the world that is not the case, but not to depend on anyone and protect their population is an absolute imperative for our president and our government. It's a shame to say anything to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, except for all the honor and thank you. It's not all politics and ideology, there's something about human decency and ethics. I stand by your attention and wish everyone good health, and so do your families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5775	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5776	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, whether one of the states, or its government, is leading a good or bad economic and monetary policy, is best seen in years of crisis, because when global economies grow, then to a lesser or greater extent all countries have economic growth, and when the years of crisis come then some other skills and possibilities for predicting global economic circumstances are seen. So today we can compare in a very high-quality way how our country acted in this current Kovid crisis, and how during the crisis we had ten years ago, although of course these two crises are not exactly for comparison, because today's situation is more drastically difficult and more complicated and ultimately not just an economic crisis, but if we remember in 2009, we then had a GDP decline of some minus 3%, with some estimates being that this decline was a little bit and fingic and that it was actually significantly higher. If we compare this to the previous very difficult 2020 year, our GDP decline was only down to 1.1%, which is an incomparably better result in significantly more difficult circumstances. If we consider that during the 2009 and 2010 crisis, we lost 400,000 jobs, and those people who kept their jobs had major problems because of the extremely reduced purchasing power, which because of the national currency's depression, which because of the very high double-digit inflation, they were not able to service their obligations, loans and all of us brought about a major economic crisis and a vicious cycle from which we couldn't get out for years. And all of this would have happened last year if the Serbian government hadn't reacted quickly and in time, the economy wouldn't have lasted longer than a few months, and very quickly we would have had a large number of lost jobs and all that I mentioned earlier had survived and felt the economic consequences of it for a long time. In the 1930s during the great depression, famous economist John Kanez wrote a book titled "General theory of employment, interest and money" that made him one of the most influential economic experts, an analyst of the 20th century, where he defined several principles. One of the basic principles, in addition to the fact that, without full employment, there is no growth of GDP and recovery of the economy, has defined one principle based on the fact that in years of crisis, which is logically private capital is still. People are scared, reserved, avoiding investing their money, economic movements are slowing down, and this further makes it difficult to get out of the crisis, and his view was that countries in these situations must be involved, primarily through large public investment, public capital investments, and thus achieve maximum employment, to get people employed and to provide support to the private sector. That's exactly what the state of Serbia did last year, because in addition to sharing the burden of responsibility with the economy and helping the economy retain the largest number of jobs, we practically did not stop any capital investment. We continued to build both highways and railways and schools and hospitals, and all of this helped us to have a second best score in Europe at the end of the year and a minimal drop in GDP, and this year we can count on the growth of 6% already mentioned. When we translate that into money, it will mean that at the end of this year our GDP will be around three billion euros larger than it was at the beginning of the year. Therefore, I think that these two examples of relations to the crisis, an example of the current, during the Covid crisis, are one school example of how the state should behave, and on the other hand when we talk about the crisis that occurred in 2009, a school example of how the state should not behave and those actors who were in power at that time are still present today in our country's political life. Some things have changed drastically, and some of them are the same. Compared to the beginning of the crisis, their bank accounts have changed dramatically. So, they are dramatically increased and what Serbian citizens always need to think well about, how it is possible, at the time of this major crisis in 2008, 2009 and 2010 when the entire economy collapsed, the citizens were left out of work, without their incomes, how parallel to that, at the same time, that, say, Dragan Gilas's companies recorded an incredible economic success, to record economic boom, a financial boom that I don't know if there are many more companies in the world that have made so much progress in times of the great crisis and when everyone else has failed. This results in what hasn't changed and what's exactly the same today as it was ten years ago, these people are exclusively taking care of their own personal interest and protecting their own capital. In addition to what I said, I'm only going to say one more fact, and it concerns exactly the employment that I've been talking about a little while ago, I'm not going to mention unemployment rates now because many people like to dispute and challenge labour polls towards Eurostat. According to 2009 today, 400,000 people have jobs in Serbia. So 400,000 people are more employed. It's not a statistical data, it's not a percentage, it's an exact data that can be verified. These are the people for whom taxes and contributions are paid. This is why today we can largely pay out pensions from contributions, not budgets and borrowings. I said earlier that this wasn't just an economic crisis, that it was going through many spheres of society, and it's largely health and health care. We talked a lot about how the state of Serbia is conducting the vaccination process. It is of course important for health reasons, because it protects people's lives and for economic reasons, because the faster we open, the more economically we grow. We'll have a chance to have this big growth next year. There's one more important thing, and it concerns our country's reputation in the world. So we see that in recent months, many worldly and very famous magazines and media have been best known to talk about how Serbia organized itself during the crisis, how it organised the vaccination, how it is solidarity towards the region and helping the region and all of this raises the reputation of Serbia in the world. To a much greater extent, many people are disturbing that they invest in Serbia, that they are doing business with both Serbia and the resulting data that you ministers presented yesterday, which is that we have maintained a high level of foreign direct investment, although it was a year of major crisis. So, these are all reasons why Serbia's reputation has significantly improved in the world, but it didn't come just like that, and that's where I get back to the very beginning when I was talking about the abilities of statesmen and governments predicting global political circumstances, and I return to that in 2014, when Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic was talking about how important it was to restore friendship with the People's Republic of China when both the president and the prime minister of the People's Republic of China came back to Serbia after 30 and change for the first time in years, and when many people laughed and made jokes at the expense of both the president and our country, here, seven years later, they proved that these political assessments, first of all, were very correct and proved to be serious about politics, and who is experiencing politics exclusively as a circus. In the end, I want to say something that is not directly related to the subject. I would like to, given that today is the International Day of the Earth to commend the activists of the Office for Youth in Chačka and the Association of Young Roma "Gypsy Team" who today organised an action to clean up the coast of West Morava and thus showed once again how they relate to the environment and how important it is to raise awareness about the importance of environmentalism in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5777	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Olivera Ognjanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5778	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, laws establishing a guarantee scheme, as new support for businesses, are necessary to continue the process of easing the major financial and economic consequences resulting from the Covid 19 pandemic and to continue the fight against the pandemic and economic development of the country. Yesterday we could hear how much effort has been made and how serious our government and president have shown when it comes to the continuation of the pandemic, the continuation of projects related to capital investment and further development and economic progress of Serbia. We heard how much responsibility the Republic of Serbia has taken on itself when it comes to achieving results in all areas of the economy, in order to maintain stability and growth and compensate for losses to entrepreneurs who have been prevented from working because of the state of emergency. A large number of countries in the world have not survived the pandemic and have gone into economic crisis. However, thanks to the precisely responsible policy led by President Vukic, we will grow 6% of GDP this year and because of this stability, Serbia is even more attractive for direct foreign investment, whose inflow is nearly three billion euros in 2020. The fact is that the pandemic is still going on, that the number of patients and deceased is still high, although so far we have over three million vaccinated citizens in Serbia, but it is also the fact that a large number of mutations of this virus cannot be immediately identified as to what the consequences are. The whole world, all countries are fighting and making huge efforts to preserve the economy. Our happiness is that, thanks to the efforts made by President Aleksandar Vukic, we have all the vaccines. Citizens can choose when and with what vaccine they will vaccinate, of course if they want to. The most important thing is that the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by President Vukic has found ways to help citizens and businesses overcome the problems and impasses in the work that have been created due to the need to introduce emergency measures. The third economic aid package is worth 257 billion dinars to the citizens, representing 17.2% of our GDP. Given the need for support from the Republic of Serbia to maintain liquidity following the introduction of the state of emergency. Also, the Republic of Serbia undertakes to provide an additional 500m euros as a guarantee for loans provided by banks to economic operators to finance liquidity. The second law refers to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in passenger transport, catering, hotel service, tourist agencies because they have suffered the most damage over the past period and have the greatest consequences in business. They have suffered a significant drop in income, and support from the Republic of Serbia is necessary as a guarantee for their revitalisation and liquidity. I will remind you that the first aid package for the economy was in April last year, and the second one in September, meant paying twice at 60% minimum earnings and postponing taxes and contributions by a month. These measures aim to preserve production capacities and jobs as much as possible, and the most important thing is that citizens know that the value of all three aid packages is over eight billion euros. That salary and pension increases have been achieved this year, and there has been an increase in salaries for Serbia's army and that these, as last year, will be financially supported by citizens and additional pensioners and unemployed, and so on. Antivaccinators invent every possible reason against vaccination, politicizing even the process against fighting the pandemic just because they have to seek the hatred they have for President Vukic, and financed by opposition parties who are angry that they can no longer steal our money, it's amazing that they go to these limits to accuse the vaccines of causing sterility, how we are experimented with, how vaccines are silent killers, and all the time the world struggles to provide the vaccine. I cited all of this because such claims are great insolence when it is known how much this government has done and how much it does to boost the growth of birth in Serbia, to help parenting and raising children, to bring back those who went into the world in search of work. I must, dear citizens, remind you who your opposition victims are. They're part of a yellow gang that's rich in robbery privatisations and those who have joined them out of personal interest by jumping from party to party. These are some like former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, directly responsible for the robbery of Telekom in 2011, when the state-owned company under his pressure was forced to buy four cable channels of Arena sport for 7.7m euros, the former manager of our capital, who earned over 600m euros in just four years. It's someone whose authorities for the purchase of 200 buses disappeared 150 000 euros per bus, someone who built the most expensive bridge in Europe. Gilas's companies had an annual income of over 80m euros per Serbia, while half a million Serbian citizens were jobless, the GDP was minus 3.1 and the public debt was almost 80%. Let me also mention Jeremic, who has disrespected us around the world, who has damaged more than 5.2m euros for signing a contract with Serbia's Energy Project. For five years, the foreign minister's post on travel and luxury spent more than 3.6m euros from the budget, etc. I don't want to count it anymore. That's how over 50 accounts have been opened around the world where our money is and why it threatens President Vukic and his family, why they're making hangers, threatening murder and rape. That's why none of the SNS officials are worth it. That's why they insult and demean you citizens who trust us, the SNS and President Vukic, and are not disgusted by the money the Republic gives. It's not hard for them to drive on new highways and get regular salaries, but time and endurance will show when we're on the right track. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown it will not and will not deal with thieves, will not allow it to be stolen and will sanction and investigate anyone caught in crime and crime regardless of political belongings. She has shown that she is guided by truth and justice. In the end, President Vukic did not only ensure that in Serbia we have all the vaccines, that we help other countries by giving them vaccines and receiving foreign citizens to speed up the healing process, but enabled the production of vaccines against Kovid 19 in our country, provided investment in the equipment for Torlak to start producing a four-valent flu vaccine, and so far we had to wait for the imports of these vaccines. So, with the strengthening of the health and health of the nation, it is going to create new jobs. Serbia is placed in a position that marks us strong, stable and safe for life. Today we have a president of Serbia who represents our country in the best possible way by raising our reputation in the world and that more and more investors who see our country as an investment-friendly environment, which is the only way that will provide a safe and better future for us and our children. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support all the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5779	Thank you. He has the word of Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5780	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just to share with you one piece of news at the recently completed session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a conclusion has been reached on the beginning of the construction of a new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. The hospital will have a capacity of 600 beds and this project is necessary to realise, as President Vukic said in an emergency procedure. So no later than September 1st this year, Serbia will have another new special Kovid hospital. Now you see how, what we're talking about here isn't empty promises. So, yesterday we talked about going to build a new hospital covid, that budget rebalancing was provided funds, and in this conclusion today it is said that the funds were provided in the amount of four billion and 150 million dinars to complete and build a new third Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. Congratulations, especially to all citizens of Serbia, this will certainly contribute to an even better and more effective fight against the crown of the virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5781	I thank the Minister for sharing this fine information with us. The next is MP Milan Jugovic, according to the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5782	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, distinguished fellow citizens, in the beginning, truly one good news and I would like to share the satisfaction with my colleagues, with the citizens of Serbia, on the fact that we will soon have another covid hospital, which will definitely contribute to our already successful battle with the pandemic of the Crown Virus in these difficult times. While speaking of good news, it is no longer a surprise in Serbia, it has already become a practice in some way, the practice of keeping the promises made by top state officials. Today, we have a very important topic, especially when we have a global and health and economic situation in mind, a topic that in these circumstances is further gained on importance, which is a set of laws relating to support, i.e. the provision of a new package of support for the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here, we've already entered the second year of this pandemic, the pandemic of the coronary virus that the whole world is struggling with. When it comes to our country, if we look behind us, we can say that so far we have achieved remarkable results in this fight, both on the plan of preserving our fellow citizens' lives and health, so on the plan of preserving our economic activity, so on the plan of preserving our economy. It was this health crisis that showed all the justification for the economic policy led by the state leadership in the previous period, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic, a policy that results in, or has already given great resistance to, our economy to all the negative consequences left by this pandemic. When it comes to SNS policy, therefore, there is an ordinary citizen, his existence, and I can say that all these measures in the previous year, but also the measures that will be taken in the current year, have been directed as I have said, towards preserving the economy and preserving jobs. We have so far achieved remarkable results that are visible, which cannot be challenged, which are pointed out by all the prominent international financial institutions. So, in terms of never trying in the last few decades, we've not only managed to preserve employment, but we've reduced unemployment to a record low. So today, unemployment in Serbia is one-digit, i.e. it has a one-digit percentage, and when we look at absolute numbers, in 2020 we had 50,500 more registered employees than in 2019, which is indeed the result of every respect, especially if we look at the circumstances in which our country is all over the world. Every job saved, every new job opened is a great success for the SNS and preserving existence, improving the standard of living of Serbian citizens, and in the future will be the star of the leader of our policy. Despite the global crisis caused by the Covid 19 pandemic, Serbia is today an economically stable state. As I said, this is the result of a proper economic policy from previous periods, but this is also the result of a comprehensive economic aid package for businesses and citizens who implemented the state last year, which weighs slightly more than six billion euros. Few countries in Europe, with economies much more developed and much stronger than ours, have managed to implement such a support package, and that is why we were able to increase salaries and pensions in the crisis year, therefore, to pay healthcare workers, to increase pensions, to pay for one-off assistance and pensioners and health workers, and therefore in 2020 we had exports that grew compared to 2019. So from 17.1 to 17.5 billion euros. In the same style and in the same rhythm we continue in the current 2021, where we have already had an increase in earnings for health workers of 5%, for everyone else in the public sector first 3%, then an additional 1.5% and what special delights me with all investments in technical equipment, in modernising Serbia's Army, we are also working to improve the standard of living of our employees in Serbia's Army. So the officers' salaries were increased by 4%, by 8%, and by 12% by soldiers. I'd like someone to tell me, is there a country like that in this crisis capable of increasing wages to its public sector employees? One of the most important segments of each country's development, including ours, is the inflow of foreign direct investment. We have heard several times today and in the previous days that despite all this, foreign direct investment continues to arrive in Serbia, that we are the leader in the Western Balkans region, that we are absolute champions, that the net inflow of foreign investment is greater than all the countries in the Western Balkans region together. Every investment is important. Each investment brings a number of jobs, but I would single out two extremely important investments that will definitely change Serbia for the better in the future, these are the investments of two Japan-based Tojo Tyres in India and Niedek in Novi Sad, especially this second one where Niedek will invest two billion euros in Novi Sad. What does that tell us? So, when renowned Japanese companies are investing in Serbia at the moment, this means that foreign investors still see Serbia as a politically and economically stable country, as a rule of law, as a country that has a favourable business environment. By adopting this law package on the agenda today, we will provide a new package of support for the economy and citizens worth about two billion euros. We've already heard a lot from measures that expect both the economy and the citizens in order to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, and I wouldn't repeat myself in particular. However, I want to point out one fact, Serbia's state leadership today takes care of all its citizens, so all the population groups, all the branches of the economy. Especially about the most endangered, and today they are definitely the most endangered of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. For them, 100-euro assistance is provided for both adults and children and another 200 euros for all unemployed. So this way the state will help Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija but, of course, it is not all and will continue to invest in roads, schools, hospitals. It's a policy led by Alexander Vukic and it's a policy that shows patriotism. It is a policy that protects the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is a policy that protects Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and not as some who express their patriotism by drilling into the chest of Belgrade cafes, and when they had the opportunity to do something for the people, did nothing, or, to be precise, they did – they introduced a border between Serbs, removed the issue of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN, asked the disastrous question to the International Court of Justice, but also on their actions, the people had already tried and likely tried some subsequent elections. When we talk about preserving the economy, we don't just fight through this aid package to preserve our economy. We are also fighting to preserve our economy through the preservation of our citizens' lives and health through mass vaccination, because only mass vaccination gives us a chance to return to normal life, that we can return to normal economic activities without any restrictions. When it comes to vaccination, much has already been said in this high house, and much has already been said in international contexts. Most importantly, the world's largest media outlets have written about the case of Serbia, i.e. instructions to Serbia as an example of successful vaccination through both the organisation and the number of vaccines. I feel free to say that we can thank President Vukic for that. So, at a time when she ruled large, I'm going to use a rough term, a kidnapping for medical equipment, so last year, for example, from a respirator, and now, for example, the vaccine, Serbia didn't debilitate in respirators, and even less today about vaccines. Moreover, Serbia's success is so much greater when we know that our citizens can choose which vaccine they will vaccinate with. At the very end, I would refer to the budget rebalance we were talking about yesterday. So it is very important that citizens know that no capital project, again I am saying, despite the global crisis, no capital project has been questioned. Moreover, in the 2021 budget, record funds have been allocated for the realisation of planned capital projects. I will not repeat now the highways that are under construction and those that will start building by the end of the year and all those announced hospitals, clinical centres whose reconstruction, whose construction is under way, but I will look only for a moment at your exposure, ministers, when you mentioned Loznica on several occasions, every time in the context of the realization of extremely important projects both for Loznica and for Podrinje. I again underline, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, first of all, of Podrinj, who had previously been devastated, with catastrophic infrastructure, with people going to bigger cities in search of a better life, we have a completely different picture today. Some projects have been implemented, some are under way, and some will be realised. In particular, you are yesterday, I would like to share it with the citizens of Loznica and Podrinj, mentioned that in this rebalancing, the means to continue the construction of the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica station, i.e. the Ruma-Shabac highway, and the fast traffic of Shabac-Loznica, were then defined as the means to build a bypass around Loznica and, of course, the means to continue the work on the construction of a surgical-gynological block in Loznica, which was started 30 years ago and in which, until Alexander Vukic, no one invested a single dinar, and many authorities changed at the level of the state. How in Serbia today is money for all these measures, for all these investments? Very simply, Aleksandar Vucic, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been running one responsible economic policy for years. So today, people in responsible positions in the country do not view their position as an opportunity for wealth, they do not view their position as an opportunity to rob a country, to rob citizens, but only as a service to help Serbian citizens. That's why today we in the budget have money to help businesses and citizens, and to raise wages and pensions, and to realise all these projects that have started and will be realised. Therefore, like all my colleagues, I will vote in favour of this set of laws that enables economic support and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5783	Thank you. Next is counterpart Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5784	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with an associate, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now ahead of us of the draft laws that the state continues to assist, both citizens and businesses. The state continues to take on the greatest burden of the crisis. After two aid packages that we had over the past year, for which as many as 704 billion dinars have been allocated, a third package of measures envisioning 257 billion dinars is a total of incredible 8 billion euros, representing 17.2% of our GDP. At a time when the whole world was caught up in a pandemic caused by Kovid – 19 Serbia reacted quickly. The aids were timely, strong, and effective. We have shown that we are a responsible and stable country, which preserves stability, but also business and jobs. There were no layoffs in Serbia as we could see in many countries, both in the region and worldwide. We've shown that we take care of every dinar. In addition to this third aid package, despite all investments across our country, and we see that Serbia has become one huge construction site, and even though capital investments are defined by no higher funds and budgets for 2021, but also by this rebalance, our public debt does not exceed 60% of our GDP which we can see in the world is not exactly where large world powers have a public debt with a three-digit number. Our unemployment rate is about 7%. The unemployment rate in the crisis 2020 was lower than in 2019. So, unemployment in Serbia has dropped despite the crisis caused by Kovidom-19. I will remind you that just ten years ago and before Alexander Vukic and SNS came to power, we had over 20% unemployment and Serbia ahead of bankruptcy. These were the times when the katans were placed on the factories, when people were worried that they would be able to provide the family with a piece of bread, but that's why millions in individual accounts and how they piled up all over the world. Citizens deserve to know where and how their money is spent. After the reforms carried out, the state continued to treat the finances with domestic and responsibleness, which was best seen in this crisis when the state was on this basis able to help, but continued to help both businesses and citizens. After 100 euros in dinar equivalent that last year all full-time citizens who applied for this support measure will now receive another 60 euros in financial assistance, to provide economic support and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, but also to continue to fight for the preservation of living standards. For this assistance, citizens will be able to sign up by electronic means from 28 April to 15 May and from 5 May by phone. Pensioners, but also recipients of social assistance and persons in criminal sanctions offices will be automatically paid for, which would mean that they do not need any kind of application. Last year's 100-euro assistance amounted to 6.2 million people. The state is now ready to help with another 30 euros in May and 30 euros in November, which requires only one citizens' application. In addition, pensioners will receive another 50 euros in September despite 60 euros, and all those unemployed registered in the labour market in June will receive an additional 60 euros in assistance. The aid is also foreseen for our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, so all full-time citizens, including children, will receive 100 euros, while aid for the unemployed in Kosovo and Metohija will be provided for 200 euros. The help of the economy continues, so this third package provides for three times a half-minors for all micro, small, medium, but this time also large businesses and entrepreneurs. Also, for those most affected by this crisis, additional assistance in the form of 600 euros per bus for all carriers in the next six months, i.e. from April to September, as well as assistance for city hotelers – 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. In addition to 50% of the minimum minimums for all those most affected, i.e. for employees of tourist agencies, rent-a-car agencies, catering employees, but also for independent artists this year will be paid in July and August and two full minimumers. In this set of laws there are also proposals for laws relating to guarantee schemes, i.e. a continuation of measures of support aimed at increasing the liquidity of economic operators. Serbia, as a responsible state, has decided to extend the existing guarantee scheme, as well as to establish a new guarantee scheme to support the most vulnerable entrepreneurs. The amendments to the Act on an existing guarantee scheme stipulates that credit agreements must be concluded by 30 June 2022 at the latest, and earlier this was possible by 30 June 2021. Also, loans can be released at the latest by July 31st, 2022. Credits covered by an existing guarantee scheme are given with a 36-month repayment period, with a mandatory grace period of nine to 12 months included. The extension of the existing guarantee scheme does not alter the conditions of similarity, so that all entrepreneurs of micro, small, medium-sized enterprises that meet the legal requirements can apply to loans that have a guarantee of the State, in accordance with the First Guarantee Scheme Act. A second guarantee scheme has provided an additional 500m euros for the most vulnerable sectors and companies. The loan has been extended to five years with a grace period of 18 to 24 months, with the possibility of repayment of loans in monthly and quarterly payments, and the purpose of the loan has also been extended. In addition to all measures in response to the pandemic state, investment in capital investment continues in Serbia, and four highways are currently being built, while by the end of the year we will have as many as eight highways built. In addition, the state has singled out the money, as you just said, today at the government it is also adopted, that another brand-new covid hospital is being built in Novi Sad, while in record time we have already built two new covid hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec. The state also provided funds for medicines, medical equipment and vaccines. Serbia is among the best in Europe after vaccination. There are even four types of vaccine available to citizens. We have these vaccines free, while this is not the case everywhere in the world and many countries are fighting on the world market because they don't have any vaccines. Serbia, thanks to President Alexander Vukic's wise policy, has a sufficient number of vaccines for our citizens, and we are also able to help our neighbours in the region, as we have already done, but we will also work in the coming period. In addition to the new covid hospital, reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia in Belgrade is being completed, but the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad begins and the reconstruction of general hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia, including the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Piroth, the town where I come from. But certainly the most important strengthening of our health system is investment in "Torak" and determination to produce vaccines in Serbia. Serbia has become a good example in the world. The essence of success is in factories, hospitals, hospitals, roads. We used to be famous for our athletes in the world, and now for the inoculation and growth of GDP, so some foreign media declared our President Alexander Vukic and the leader of the region. Serbia's image is at an envious level, and we see it on the occasion of foreign direct investment. Since investing in Serbia, despite the pandemic, no investor has given up, on the contrary, we in Serbia continue to build factories, create new jobs, and Serbia has had a net inflow of 2.9 billion foreign direct investments, while everyone in the region combined had 1.7 billion. Serbia is no longer weak, Serbia is firmly standing on its feet and is taking large steps forward, headed by Aleksandra Vukic. Serbia is no longer led by thieves whose personal benefit and millions of euros are more important than the citizens and our country. This way I want to appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated, because only by immunisation can we continue to build stronger and economically stronger Serbia. Thanks to the responsible policy under way today, the state has the opportunity to help all citizens to preserve jobs and to realise new investments, open new factories and new jobs, and thus continue to reduce the unemployment rate further. We want to end the year with a 6% growth and be the best or one of the best GDP growth rates in Europe. In line with everything I have stated, in the voting day, along with my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", I will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5785	Thank you. Next up is Professor Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5786	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Hardisic. Minister Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the most important thing in this debate that we have yesterday and today in Serbia, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to discuss in the Government of the Republic of Serbia the things that were unimaginable just a few years ago, given that Serbia was a very poor country by 2012, a country that experienced a complete economic collapse that, unfortunately, lasted from 2000 to 2012. In 2012, we were threatened with a complete collapse of our economic system, which, of course, reflected negatively on our foreign policy, our foreign policy position, and generally on aspects that a sovereign and independent country should inherit and have. Of course, the message is clear when you're economically weak, when you're economically dependent, when you're weaker than the countries in the region, as you said to the Ministers the other day on the Committee, you're easy to prey and you can't develop, you can't develop human resources, or human capacities in the country, and of course you can't defend either the sovereignty and independence of the country. Because these economic successes we have in the past few years have led us to talk about concrete projects today, to have a debate about how much we can make a hospital. How much further highways we will make in the next period, with whom we will connect, to better connect the region in order to better export goods and services from our country. What is the main message of the time in which we live today, despite the great challenges caused by the coronal virus and global pandemic, is that today in Serbia there is no talk of jobs and there is no talk of finding a job in Belgrade, or in Novi Sad, or Nis, Kragujevac, and I am not talking about smaller towns and smaller municipalities, but I am talking about some other things, which is environmental protection, environmental protection, better working conditions. Whether we're better investors from Japan or South Korea, it's better if we have investors from Germany or France. These are some topics that clearly talk about how President Aleksandar Vukic, with his clear vision and economic policy and economic reforms that he is carrying out together with you in the government and with us here representing the majority of the National Assembly, led by the SNS, managed to make one of the economic dead a respectable country with which everyone in this world wants to cooperate. And that's true, and that's the fact today that Serbia is recognized as one serious economic hub, a hab for vaccination. They recognise it as a country that is the economic leader of the region and a country that is a factor of stability and, of course, a factor in the future of the entire region and of all people living in the Western Balkans. It's a fascinating fact, and we could hear it, and we don't say it here as SNS, it's just mentioned in an interview that President Aleksandar Vukic had in co-operation with the Atlantic Council from Washington, with one of the most influential organizations that, to a large extent, creates American and foreign and domestic policies. They said that interview was fascinating. They said Serbia's economic performance in the field of investment is fascinating. Anyone who has good intentions and anyone who wants to be only realistic and not biased and subjective should acknowledge and honor our country, our government, our president, that Serbia currently has and covers 67% of all foreign direct investments in the whole region. In the previous year, Serbia had about three billion euros of foreign, direct investment, all the countries in the region had about 1.7 billion together, and that's enough talking about how attractive Serbia is today and how important this fact is that Serbia was able and that President Vukic was able to, and I can say freely to you that I think that you are one of the best finance ministers in Europe because you have maintained the country's economy, because you have successfully implemented crisis management, because this country has managed to maintain the level of investment. And what is most important is the most important fact for our citizens, no investor, which is the pillar of Serbia's development, whether he's from Japan, whether he's from South Korea, whether he's from the Middle East, whether he's from the United States, whether he's from Germany, whether he's from the People's Republic of China, has not given up investment in the Republic of Serbia, even during these times of crisis. That is why Serbia has maintained its economic system, which is why Serbia has managed, in addition to maintaining the health system, to allocate money to invest in health infrastructure, and to do what is most important to this government and SNS, to preserve the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but to maintain such a level of economic activity and projection of economic growth and GDP, at as much as 6 or 6.5% in order for some with more optimistic ones to say, which will contribute to this country's economic momentum, that we can in fact expect in 2022 and 2023 to have a rate of unemployment of just a few percent, the rate of unemployment that before the pandemic was in much more developed countries than Serbia, such as Austria, such as Germany, such as Slovakia, such as Slovakia, such as Poland. So today Serbia is competing with the most developed countries. Serbia today is a winning country. Serbia is a country when we talk about a second vaccination in Europe. This was done because Serbia is growing stronger and stronger every day. They laughed at President Vukic a few years ago when he talked about digitisation, when he talked about artificial intelligence, when he talked about joint projects with Chinese partners. Well, this investment in digitisation aside from saving a lot of money in this way, a lot of energy, a lot of infrastructure, a lot of investment, led us to our immunisation, that the vaccination in Serbia goes the best way possible. There is almost no man in Serbia, and there is no one who has come to countries in the region or abroad since we have offered this opportunity to our friends, as a serious country. I think it's about twenty, twenty-two thousand people, no one has complained about the vaccination process and everything that happens at the checkpoints when it comes to vaccination and about the defense of our country's health system. What does not suit those, of course, there are many, are used to weak Serbia, have become accustomed to Serbia being a European, Balkan couple and now that Vucic has headed the Republic of Serbia, when Serbia begins to win lower political and economic victories. Now the main argument - you know what, let go of that vaccine, Vucic plays geopolitical games, it's geopoliticals, it's vaccine diplomacy, Vucic wants to establish great Serbia. Vukic also said that to the local so-called world public today in this big interview and the American public. There he showed, without his tongue hair that he said the same thing in Washington, that he said the same thing in Berlin, Brussels, Beijing, Moscow, anywhere else. He said, for us big Serbia is a job, for us great Serbia is the development of infrastructure, for us big Serbia is building hospitals, for us big Serbia is regional stability, for us is big Serbia is mini Schengen. Our country wants to export more. Our country wants to open up an opportunity to quickly connect with all countries in the region. We also want to insist that we have more mutual understanding in order of course to achieve the only possible policy in this region, but anywhere in the world. Understanding policy, compromise policy, policy of what President Vukic has been advocated for several years, free flow of goods, people and capital. Business policy, prosperity policy, the future. Only in this way can there be reconciliation and better understanding, when people work together, when they visit each other. This is what will define our policy and be a pillar of our policy in the next period, because it has shown that it works, because it has shown that several thousand people who have come from BiH here to Belgrade to be vaccinated, to say, everyone realistic, who wants to be realistic, who won't be subjective, he will say, and say – well done to Vukic, to Serbia. Serbia has shown, as Vucic introduced, in one metric way, a way that can be measured, how much we can do and how concrete we can be and how much concrete co-operation can contribute to the whole region's development. It is not only in our interest to go out with paper and boast or show graphs, it is nice, it is good, it is important for our citizens to see that Serbia wins, but it is important for us that countries in the region progress as well. It's important for us that they too have better, that their citizens have better pay power. It is not in our interest that Serbia today has an average salary of 560 and some euros, which by the end of the year will be 600 euros, which is frozen in Montenegro, which is in BiH. Today, President Vukic was on a historic visit to Banja Luka, BiH, Republika Srpska and participated in a session of the Council for Co-operation between Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska and said nicely that there is a trade exchange between BiH and Serbia of two billion euros. Our goal is to improve it, our goal is to make it 2.5 billion, three billion. These are the main objectives of the Republic of Serbia and that is why we will build roads to BiH, so we will help our brothers in Republika Srpska, as well as our friends and partners in the Federation of BiH to raise their economies so that we can cooperate even better and better, and that we can improve the standard and prosperity of all our citizens. It is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and, ultimately, it is doctrine, both political and economic, which actually gives the best results. Although many times have been criticised by both our party and our president, it is and that is something we are definitely behind, the Balkan Balkan peoples. The possibility of us agreeing between ourselves how to co-operate, how to solve our problems, and Vukic said today, that, of course, it is out of the question, as a sovereign and independent country, we do not need to endure any dictatorship, friendship, that, given the hand, the partnership, yes, investments, co-operation in all fields, but we are strong enough and self-aware enough and our own to promote and insist on Serbian politics and policies that have the main objective of protecting the Serbian people and of course all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All of what you have defined in your presentation and what has been done and what will be done through this implementation of budget rebalancing speaks clearly of it, and I will end up there, in addition to this strong, aggressive, economic doctrine that gives great results, and I believe that we will have the largest economic growth in this year throughout Europe, which is good for both the country and the region. Our party, the SNS, thinks about those who are the most endangered, thoughts about marginal social groups and assistance and support that this country has singled out, goes equally to our oldest citizens and unemployed and medical personnel who suffer the greatest pressure and the greatest burden, of course and economy, to our private sector, because we can't, and we can't afford to lose what the SNS is and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, who have managed to create for the past few years, a very, very lively business tissue in this country based on private capital, private initiatives. What is really, I think, the greatest range of this policy is that in Belgrade, Serbia, Surdulica, Gadjin Han, Krupnje, Novi Sad, all investors, all who come from the world, whether they are from Nidek, Japan or from Jazaki or from South Korea, or are from Emirata, feel well, and consider this country very stable and want to invest in one long-term and serious way in the Republic of Serbia. I can't look back on the period before 2012, when only, Mr. Martinovic remembers well, that period, the speculators came, people who were only only in co-operation and with tycoons from the government, from the DS, the party in which he was the current leader of this so-called. The boycott opposition, which led foreign policy and economic policy investments in 17 countries, with 53 bills, and with 67m euros in those accounts, was politics. How to put money in their pockets and how to make it easier and faster, it devalues the property of the Republic of Serbia, and everything that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have created for years and decades, and these people now dared to say that the budget rebalance is not good, that Vucic's policy is wrong and that those who are able and who have the capacity to run the state, people who have been unable to build one hospital, were unable to build any clinical center, were unable to build any kilometer of highway, but therefore built their own castles, built villas, capitals and who know what properties abroad, and I think I need here and all of us, for a few hours just to list the factories that have been opened in Serbia over the past few years, to list all the investments of state, and therefore we have come to this level of 7.2% of capital investment, which is on the historical level. Why? Because we know and have good people and quality people, people with knowledge and patriotism, to invest their energy and their knowledge for Serbia's well-being and for the benefit of Serbia's citizens. On that path and on that policy, we, as SNS, will continue to insist, on the path of prosperity, on the path of the future, on the path that will provide the future, for our children, on the path of our President Alexander Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5787	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is Ana Miljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5788	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, propose laws on the agenda today, the Republic of Serbia continues to support citizens and businesses in order to mitigate the consequences of Kovid 19's pandemic. As the direct aid measure has proved very important for all of our citizens, and I will remind you that over 6 million citizens have applied for 100 euros last year, the state has decided to make it possible for all of Serbia's adult citizens this year to apply for 60 euros in cash aid, which will be paid in two parts. Citizens will be able to apply from April 28th to May 15th 2021, by electronic means to the Treasury Office, or by telephone contact centre from May 5th, and to pensioners, social income users and persons in the Criminal Sanctions Office, financial assistance will be paid directly, they will not have to apply in this way. In order to implement this support measure, it is necessary to establish a provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to which this assistance will be paid. Thanks to the responsible policy of our President Alexander Vukic, the Republic of Serbia is now an economically stable country, and as such has the opportunity to help all its citizens, businesses, people employed in various sectors in society, tourism, culture, sport, health care, build a cove of hospitals, build highways, implement capital projects, and all of this was unimaginable until 2012. In order to preserve liquidity in the private sector, it is necessary to extend the existing guarantee scheme, as a measure of support, but also to establish a new guarantee scheme to help the most vulnerable companies. I would like to remind you that the first guarantee scheme of banks is allowed to grant two billion euros in favourable loans to businesses, i.e. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are now increasing that amount by 500m euros, but we are also extending the period of availability, i.e. the availability of these funds by one year. According to the latest record, banks have so far approved around 1.7 billion euros in loans under the existing guarantee scheme. This data shows that this type of aid is extremely important to our businesses, and through another guarantee scheme, new 500 million eras have been provided, but for the most vulnerable companies and companies. The law that regulates the issue of other guarantee schemes is intended primarily for the most endangered activities, such as hospitality, passenger transport, hotels in cities and tourist agencies, as well as for companies with a decline in business income above 20% compared to the previous year. From the above, we can see that the Republic of Serbia, which undertakes to settle bank claims as a guarantee based on approved loans, provides support to all its citizens, but also to all segments of society and equally takes care of all citizens. During this extremely difficult period, we have shown that we are the true leaders of the region. The stable policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS has led to eight billion euros in aid for three packages of measures to help our citizens and businesses. What I think, perhaps even more important to our citizens, is that throughout this period the salary has been constantly increased. So, in March, we had an average salary of nearly 540 euros, and it is planned to be 600 euros by the end of the year. What is certain is going towards the realisation of the plan and programme "Serbia 2020/25" where the average salary in 2025 is planned to be 900 euros. Of course, like my fellow MPs, Alexander Vukic - For our children in voting day, I will support all these laws that are on the agenda today, because they absolutely represent the way to a better standard of living for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5789	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5790	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, in the day of voting, I will support all these proposed laws, because I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic has once again shown in these difficult times how responsible authority works and how Serbia is determined to act in the terms of the Coronary Virus. The very information presented here by the current Finance Minister Sinisha Mali, that the package will help citizens and businesses amount to 257 billion dinars enough says that Serbia takes care of every dinar, speaks enough about how we now have the government of Serbia that takes care of its budget. Our present minister, Sinisha Mali, has explained to us all the details of the aid package. Because this package helps not only protect jobs, but also opens our economy after mass vaccination. Fortunately, we have better and better results in Serbia from day to day as far as mass vaccination is concerned. This way I call on citizens to be vaccinated and, of course, to look forward to the fact that we already have about 1.3 million re-vaccinated citizens, i.e. Citizens who received both doses of the vaccine. How did the predecessors know this enough by 2012 in Serbia, until 2013 in Belgrade, and our Finance Minister Sinisa Mali, who when he came to the post of president of the interim body, then as mayor of Belgrade, met a disastrous situation in the Belgrade city's budget. He saw the best way to do it, not only without a host, but how it is criminally managed by the budget. So it was in Belgrade, so it was in Serbia during the government of the former regime and during the rule of Dragan Gilas. On this occasion, I would like to thank the finance minister for the response we received as a parliamentary group, and who I read the day before at a meeting here in the tide, a response signed by the Ministry of Money Prevention, the Ministry of Finance, where the administration and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia are investigating Gilas's machinations. On the one hand, we had a period of Gilas's machinations, on the other hand we have the current period, that's the period of Aleksandra Vukic, the state of Serbia and therefore we have a situation like this in the budget that we can allocate enough money and help healthcare, and to help all that the minister has stated in his address. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic on the construction of a joint hospital in Novi Sad. I would like to point out as a folk MP on behalf of our parliamentary group and on all those investments foreseen by the budget, concerning the construction of the vaccine factory and the completion of the Serbian Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, investment in health infrastructure and Serbia and all other hospitals. Of course, investment in all those capital projects from the "Serbia 2025" programme, because our project, "Serbia by 2025", speaks of Serbia led by Aleksandr Vukic thinking about the future, thinking about the future of our children, thinking about all projects and thinking about Serbia being no longer the country it was until 2012. Think about it, think about what's going to happen tomorrow, think about every dinar, that's what this budget rebalance says. What is the policy of the Serbian government and President Vukic speak both today's events and today's statements and today's reactions. Our president today has become an honorary citizen of Banja Luka, which has become the deserved Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government. A lot of help, they will also help the Republic of Serbia, all of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all of our countries in the environment, regardless of whether we have ever had any misunderstandings with them, these are now our partners, now we have a new era, a period of peace, stability, friendship, building partner relations, helping Serbian citizens, helping our neighbours. That is why in the voting day, I will support both the rebalancing and all the proposed laws, because all today we have had the opportunity to hear from my dear colleagues just confirms that Serbia led by Alexander Vukic is leading the best policy in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5791	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Milica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5792	In my address, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom monetary assistance will be paid as a measure to mitigate the consequences of the cove 19 pandemic, caused by the coronary virus. As explained in the proposal for this law, it is necessary for the state to continue measures in order to mitigate, above all, the economic consequences caused by the pandemic, which have hit the most economic activity and have significantly compromised it. Serbia today is a country that, thanks to President Vukic's responsible policy, is doing great in this fight that is not easy at all. Taking into account all the medical equipment that we have today, hospitals, when we take into account a large number of tests, which is even 80% higher than in EU countries, major hospitalisation, vaccination, the lowest mortality rate, and all of this to the lesser extent in Europe, it is clear that Serbia has set an example today not only in the Balkan countries, but also in Europe, how responsible policies are being conducted and how it takes care of the lives of its citizens. Serbia has vaccinated more than three million citizens with the first dose of the vaccine, and more than a million with both doses, of four different producers. In parallel with this concern about the lives of citizens, with the purchase of medicines, vaccines, Serbia is now more than ever investing in health infrastructure. But it is very important to mention that in 2012, Serbia was at the bottom of all the scales when it comes to health care. Ten general hospitals are being built today, investing in Torlak Serbia will start producing a four-valent vaccine against seasonal flu, a vaccine against the coronary virus. It should be noted that in 2019, only two years ago, although even then large investments in health care, that amount was 289 billion dinars, and now, just two years ago, almost double. In just four months, two Kovids of Batajnica Hospital were built, with about 900 beds, and Kruševec, and now we are officially building the third Kovid hospital in Novi Sad. In addition to this struggle for health care, Serbia is today taking support measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The third package refers to giving twice 30 euros to all full-time citizens, and the way in which payment is regulated by this bill. The package also covers 60 euros for all unemployed, as well as 50 euros for our pensioners. It is very important to note that the citizens of KIM will receive 100 euros, including children and an unemployed 200 euros. I really can't imagine today what would happen if we had to fight the coronary virus, get vaccines, that today is the one that pays a bridge like a 30km highway, one that has 70m euros in almost 50 countries in the world and who knows how much more. Now, that one, Dragan Gilas, who, when the vaccination started, sent a message to the citizens that Serbia would not have vaccines. But as he lies, that's how he steals. Serbia today has vaccines for all its citizens who want to be vaccinated. Serbia has also vaccinated the region. In addition to the largest investment in health care so far, Serbia is investing in both road and rail infrastructure, investing in ecology. One of the four highways now being built, the Preljina-Požega section on the Milos Veliki highway, the people of Požega waited for this highway for about 70 years, a road that would replace the Ibar highway, which took so many lives. One of the three bypasses built in this area will be a tour around Požega, and the citizens of Požega have waited nearly half a century for a bypass that will remove cargo traffic from the city. In order for all these projects to be realised, apart from knowledge, hard work, combatability, a healthy economy and public finances such as Serbia today are needed. We will continue to fight bravely for our Serbia, for the future and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5793	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5794	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, a respected militia, gave me an introduction to respond to a statement by Dragan Gilas and his friends, Dusan Nikezic, because as you talk about highways, as you talk about new projects, they come out with a statement from time to time. Here, just before they came out with another statement about the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. What is my question for you, Mr. Nikezic - and how much did you owe and destroy the Republic of Serbia? The most expensive bond ever issued by the Republic of Serbia was in your time, yours and your employer, Dragan Gilas. In 2011, you issued a bond with an interest rate of 7.25%. But, well, let's ignore that the most expensive bond in our country was issued when you ran the Treasury Ministry and when the government was run by Dragan Gilas, but the question is, did you build anything for that money? Is there some highway you can be proud of that you made with that money? In doing so, I don't mean the expressway to Mauritius, I mean the highway here in Serbia. Is there anything you've done for Serbian citizens that remains behind you, except fill your pockets and pockets with Dragan Gilas? Well, there isn't. So don't say anything about borrowing policy. Of the money you owed Serbia, we need to pay back another $700m in September. So the citizens of Serbia continue to suffer the consequences of your irresponsible and rude economic policy and we will not act that way. Here today we're talking about the first, the second, the third aid package, we're talking about responsible economic policy, we're talking about fighting for our economy, we're talking about fighting the crown of the virus, we're talking about our people's health. We are not talking and I am not going to talk about you, your pockets and your employer, Dragan Gilas, especially as the results of your disastrous economic policy, unfortunately all of us and all of Serbia's citizens are still feeling today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5795	Thank you. Now the word has Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5796	Dear President, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister of Mali, dear fellow Members of the People and fellow Members of Parliament, I think this brief discussion of Minister Mali is also something that I wanted to dedicate to the greatest time of my presentation, for a simple reason, because if we consider yesterday's day and here today, we have spent many hours discussing and discussing here the measures, all the benefits of the rebalancing, but also these laws today. I think a lot of things have been said. I will allow myself to say that after all these discussions there is almost no topic, that there is no segment of these laws, and especially yesterday rebalanas, that we did not go through it exactly, showed what it is that brings both rebalancing and these laws today. However, what I particularly want to point out is the fact that this is only the continuity of Serbia's development, that all the laws that we are going to declare today are an indication that economically stable Serbia is the responsible policy of the Serbian government, which follows the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, something that is a fundamental goal for all of us, to apply something that we all want to work on from day to day, because it is the only way we can ensure a brighter future for all of our citizens and generations to come. Unlike my previous speaker colleagues, I'm not going to want to lead my discussion in that direction, but I'm going to be taxing on what is planned and what are the benefits, because I don't want to repeat myself. I think the citizens have had the opportunity so far to see what the government is doing for them. However, what I want to point out is the fact, which is Mr. Sinisa Mali pointed out yesterday, that we planned a deficit of 80.9 billion dinars, and was achieved, believe it or not, respected citizens of Serbia, in the amount of just 23.5 billion dinars. Also, if we're talking about the decline in GDP that has affected all of Europe, we need to point out that we are here among the best for the simple reason that this decline is all -1% and here you can see by all the relevant factors how strong and stable our economy is. Also, what is particularly interesting and additionally optimistic is the fact that unemployment in 2019 was 10.4% and in 2020 unemployment was 9%. Why am I saying all this? For the simple reason that the whole of Europe, including the world, has big problems maintaining their economy, keeping jobs, leaving people at work, not getting into a situation where they have catastrophes where hundreds of thousands of people are left out of work because of the root of the crisis. In Serbia, however, the situation is quite different and totally opposite. Despite the root crisis we have new jobs, we have new investments and we have an increasing number of employees. When we talk about this, the data is accurate, and what I particularly enjoy is the fact that the other day we had a chance to see and that another Japanese firm, Nidek, will invest, specifically, in Novi Sad, that they are planning to have more than 480 employees. For people who don't know, they're in the production of electric motors, hiring around the world over 120,000 people. If someone is in business or is interested in it, in investment, everyone knows that a foreign investor is getting well prepared and deciding where to send his investment. He's thinking well, measuring all possible factors that are interesting to him. Everyone will also tell you that Japanese and Japanese investors are particularly careful when it comes to investment. And if you only have six months apart of two big investments coming from Japan, it only tells you how economically stable our country is, and how much our country is desirable for foreign investment and foreign investors. However, what I want to share with all of you right now in the tide, and above all with the citizens of Serbia is the fact that we talked about roads here today, we talked about health homes, we talked about hospitals, we talked about vaccines, and you'll all agree, and above all you and your people, then and when you imagine the situation from a few years ago, to be more precise, by some 2012, 2013 or 2014, what kind of situation in our country would have happened to us then, the coronary virus. If you take into account that we've had homes of health and infirmarys that haven't even been painted for more than 20 years, the fact that in just four months we've built two new birds of hospitals, here we will soon begin building a third in Novi Sad, clearly says how much we've advanced as the country. I'm only saying this because each of Serbia's citizens today don't have to look far into the future or too much to look back in the past, because in the past you won't find anything nice that you can look forward to, and that it concerns politics and investment and investment in the state of Serbia. You won't find anything for the simple reason that nothing happened until 2012 or 2013, but nothing was done. When we consider highways, schools, homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres, you will remember yourself that you could not enter a building without asking yourself, a health care facility – is it possible for it to look that way and is it possible to provide health care here? This picture has changed dramatically today, and it is primarily SNS policy, and most of all President Alexander Vukic. Dear citizens of Serbia, you, as someone who decides who will be in power, who chooses all of us sitting here, but also with his voice, decide perhaps for some people who have not crossed the censorship, or supports those who have boycotted the elections, you are aware that the result and what you see with the naked eye cannot be hidden from you, nor can it convince you that it is not. These days, we are witnessing that in the absence of any policy of arguments and the results that we would boast, and that they were achieved in the past while they were in power, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, use every opportunity to attack the current government, to demean anyone who represents authority or to attack anyone, and that someone is a close associate with President Aleksandar Vukic. Now they've decided to go in that direction, which is when we can no longer invent something for Alexander Vukic, when we've tried everything in our hands and everything that's been up to us hasn't given us any effect, now let's attack his closest associates. So Mr. Bata Gasic was on target, so he was Mr. Selakovic, and now he's going to go to that mantra, famous for turning around and ending that whole circle, without any evidence, something new is waiting. I don't know how long we'll all stay silent as a society for constant and sophistication and lies and false people whose only job is to wake up in the morning, go to Dragan Gilas's firm, pick up their fee, and then at some conferences accuse everyone and everyone for whatever nonsense and untruth. When we talk and talk about insulting the intelligence of Serbian citizens, something that happened yesterday, especially irritated everyone. In fact, yesterday, this same Dragan Gilas informed us all on the Twitter social network, I don't know what it means to him or who he wanted to fascinate, says – one day to Switzerland that I'm applying for a lie that "Multi-Open" has an account in Hong Kong and participates in illegal activities, I believe there is a fine greater than a thousand euros. To explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is about, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia is going to Switzerland and to Switzerland to sue, I don't know now or anyone, because his company has an account in Hong Kong. I don't know who could have come up with this and who really advised him, but there's something seriously wrong with those lines, because this wouldn't have been the first time anyone's ever been involved in public business or politics. Let's get this straight if someone's not clear, and I believe it's clear to everyone. As a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas cannot sue anyone in Switzerland, nor is he a resident, nor is he a citizen. Also, he's not even the authorized face of this firm that, just to remind you, until a few months ago he claimed he didn't exist. So, as the people would say, he got involved in his lies like a chicken in a puppy. So, Dragan Gilas informed us yesterday and lied about going to sue, I don't know who, for the same firm he claimed didn't exist, and also that man convinced us up until recently that he didn't have any private accounts in Switzerland, but when it turned out there were over 600,000 euros in accounts in this company, he said -- well, it's not private, it's a company. I'll remind you, the company owns it, i.e. Gojko Gilas is listed, and the signatories, the right to sign, therefore, have Dragan Gilas and the famous Pascal Schmidt. What else is worrying, respected citizens of Serbia? All of what he's exhibited in this one tweet, well, he needs four rows to match everything, insults the intelligence of all people in Serbia... None of this had to work from Switzerland, because nothing technically can do. This could have been all done from Belgrade. The question arises and arises – is he perhaps going to Switzerland for a simple reason to change the ownership structure again? Will he change the company's name again like he did a few months ago? Is he going to run another financial transaction and maybe he's going to cover up traces of everything we've been talking about for months or years? Dear Minister Mali, with this I will finish, you correct me if I am wrong, but it is precedent, but let's face it that you are the subject of a criminal report filed by Dragan Djilas, the subject is also President Aleksandar Vukic, the subject is also Vladka Malovic, the subject is Andrijana Nesic, it seems to me, journalist Novosti, who participated in investigative journalism and all the people who pointed out that 53 accounts in 17 different countries, Dragan Djilas has more than 68m euros. You are all the subject of this investigation, but what has not been seen in Europe, not in Europe, but in the whole world, is the fact that he extended the criminal report and that he also included the director of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering Zeljko Radovanovic. Dear Minister, I would only like you to try to explain on behalf of the citizens whether it is possible for a politician who claims to return to power in his panic and hysteria to prosecute a man just because he's doing his job. So Zeljko Radovanovic is guilty because he is headed by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I don't think anything like this has happened in Europe or in the world yet, and I think this will remain remembered as the move of a desperate man who, in every way, is trying to draw attention from an affair that shakes our country and from the fact that his position as mayor, director of some imaginary office and minister at the time of the DS regime, has only been used by the only person who has been able to make a fortune from a failed entrepreneur with 75 thousand euros in savings to a fortune of 25 million euros, in real estate. The 619m euros he has provided to his companies don't even want to speak, I think it's all clear here, but Serbian citizens deserve answers to these questions, and I am delighted that finally the competent institutions are seriously dealing with this problem and that I am convinced that the Law on the Origin of Assets, which took effect on 12 March, will finally produce some results. I want many successes for you, as well as for the entire Serbian government, because all these laws show that the government and SNS itself are headed by President Aleksandar Vukic only cares about the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the better life of all Serbian citizens, our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5797	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is something below 40 minutes. The word is "Milica Dacic."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5798	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers and respected citizens of Serbia, discussed yesterday in this high house the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Law for 2021, whose reason of the changes can be divided into three circular segments, which are the adoption of a new package of support measures for businesses and citizens, investments in capital projects that mean the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" plan and the need for a further strong response to the consequences of the pandemic. These three segments in these turbulent times represent the backbone of a SNS policy where the centre of interest has always been and will remain a better life for all Serbian citizens. Today we are talking about an extremely important set of legal acts that all together aim to implement the third package of measures to support the economy and the population. The Aaron virus pandemic has put huge challenges ahead of the country's economic policy in order to preserve economic activity, preserve jobs and standards of the population. In fact, by taking over the highest burden of the pandemic, the state has decided to extend the existing guarantee scheme, as well as to establish a new guarantee scheme to support the most vulnerable companies. As for the first existing scheme, the amendments to the law have provided an additional 500m euros for businesses and an extended period of availability for a year, and through the second guarantee scheme have provided an additional 500m euros for the most vulnerable sectors and companies in the country and, above all, I think of activities such as catering, passenger transport, hotel and tourist agencies as the most vulnerable companies that have dropped over 20% in 2020. However, I must remind myself that the basis for both the first and the second and this third package was set up by the responsible economic policy and the fiscal consolidation measures taken after 2014. Let's say, when we talk about Chačka and the Chacan economy, Chacan businessmen continue to plan to expand their arbitrary capacities and create new jobs, as this has enabled them to have a responsible policy of all state authorities, just as it has contributed to the construction of the "Milos Great" highway section from Belgrade to Preljina. I also have to mention the opening of the Morava Airport. We are constantly forgetting that this airport is open because its resuscitation has stopped the crown to some extent, but I am convinced that one day tourists from the world are about to land at this airport to visit the Ovčar-Cablar ravine and Kopalnik and Vranjačka Banja and other natural beauty of the moravian, racial, racial and forestry district, and that products and goods from them will travel to the world of the planned cargo-center just from the Airport in Shipjevci. On the other hand, in Chačka, we have the first large German investor Forverk Autotek and Aldiza, which opened its production facility in Preljina at 45,000 square metres. The German investor, under a contractual obligation in 2021, had an obligation to employ 545 workers. At this point, in April 2021, he has 575 employees. By the end of 2021, he plans to employ another 100 new employees. This investor was not brought to Cačak either by Bosko Obradovic, or by Vuk Jeremic, who thought of Cačka inexplicably after his desk in the UN in New York, and by Dragan Djilas, he is opening, we hear, some other companies in tax havens, but just after President Aleksandar Vukic, who has brought these safe investors across Serbia, who will hire a large number of workers to pay taxes to this country, such as "Leoni" in the Kingdom, "Nidek" in Novi Sad, CF in Pančev and others across our country. This is exactly the kind of responsible policy that has helped us to have a historical minimum in the last year when we talk about the unemployment rate of 7.3%. Why is it important that we get close to the rate of 7% unemployment? Because if this rate is lower than 7% we come to that situation that workers are no longer looking for employers, but employers are looking for workers, and that is, we will all admit, huge progress for Serbia. So we're talking about one law of the labour market. This is especially when we consider that Serbia had millions and 850,000 jobs in 2012, and that today we have close to two million and 200,000 jobs. There is no doubt that one of the greatest joint successes of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia during a period of this great uncertainty was caused by the pandemic just to preserve jobs. The unemployment rate is expected to remain at approximately the same level this year, with an increase in population activity with an improvement in the epidemiological situation, and an increase in these activities can only occur with a good epidemiological situation. We can be proud of the fact that Serbia acquired the necessary medical equipment in time, built Kovid hospitals as well as the one mentioned today, which will be built in Novi Sad, but first of all realized that the issue of obtaining the vaccine is a matter of economic survival. With all these measures and accelerated vaccination, we continue to fight for a better, nicer and more advanced Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5799	Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5800	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Given the information you've given us, and regarding the time the parliamentary group has, we'll have plenty of time to apologize, but I'll try to be as brief as possible to get one of our colleagues involved in the debate. What is it that marks today in Serbian politics? First of all, what is happening today and what has been happening in Banja Luka and the debate on these two laws in the Serbian parliament. Both processes are very directly aimed at helping citizens, whether they live on the left or on the right hand of Drina, in a very direct way helping every man, whether he lives in Republika Srpska or in the Republic of Serbia. In Banja Luka, a historic event. I must tell you that in our people there is a popular song that says: "There is something that is divided not to, Banja Luka in Belgrade is watching." All these events have somehow associated me with the lyrics of that song, and in whom will Banja Luka, after all, and watch if not the one she was always closest to, be of assistance? To anyone except the President of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to add today, even though he doesn't stress it, the president of each of our men anywhere he lives. The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic is now an honorary citizen of Banja Luka. It's symbolic, and I think it's just the crown of everything that was done in previous years when it comes to Republika Srpska. Much has been done in Republika Srpska in previous years, but much has been announced today in Banja Luka. I received many calls today from citizens from Republika Srpska in particular from four municipalities - Kostajnica, Dubice, Drvara and the southern Republika Srpska from Nevesinj where millions of investments are announced that definitely change the whole picture of life in these municipalities. What happened today in Banja Luka is definitely writing out some new historical pages. The second political process and what is happening in Serbian politics today is about parliament and these two laws, and it is a very similar situation, two laws that regulate aid in these difficult circumstances for both citizens and the most endangered part of the economy in Serbia. In a formal sense, the budget today is not a topic, it was yesterday, but this is certainly the result of planning and all that is in the budget. I think this is also the result of what we talked about yesterday, which you, Minister Mali, put out as likely, at least for me, the most significant information yesterday, which is that our deficit in the first quarter is almost four times smaller than planned, so these and the laws are somewhat due to it. In essence, this means that regardless of what we had as difficult circumstances because of the pandemic of the economy is still on our feet, that we managed to maintain the level of economic activity in Serbia. It may also be due to some earlier measures where we have managed to maintain the level of economic activity through increased consumption and that these consequences of increasing spending and earlier state aid are seen today through a reduction in deficits, through a smaller deficit than planned for the first quarter. Now, experienced. As representatives of the people, there is nothing left for us but to firmly believe that the government is making the right decision this time, because it has proved in some previous moments and that what is in these two laws, and it is about helping citizens and businesses to produce results somewhere at the end of the year. Therefore, we Members of the SNS, the honourable ministers, will certainly support these proposals that are before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5801	Thank you. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5802	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us proposals for measures that will help both the economy and our citizens at this difficult moment, and that is only actually proof, namely the continuation of the struggle that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vucic lead to Serbia further development, and so that living standards and living conditions for the lives of citizens can progress. We had the opportunity to hear yesterday's discussion, which is dedicated to the budget rebalancing of significant results that have just been achieved thanks to the application of some measures in the previous year, I will just point out, now the debate on the third set of measures of 257 billion dinars and, together with the previous two packages of measures that amounted to 704 billion dinars, the Republic of Serbia has during this period of crisis managed to single out about eight billion euros in aid to our businesses, as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this difficult period, not only for us, but for the whole world, we are able to overcome, but that we can also fight for a normal life as much in these conditions. Of course, fighting primarily to preserve the health of citizens because health today is something that is most important. I am very pleased that the very process of vaccination in the Republic of Serbia is successfully flowing, and we are the only country in the region that has four vaccines that have been offered to citizens since October of the month will be the fifth one that will be able to use it, and it is very important that this rebalancing provides for the construction of a plant for the production of vaccines against the crown, which is important information, not only for the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, but for the whole region, because it will actually provide for the production of something that is very important in the whole of this struggle. What is very important to say last year is what you, Mr. Minister, pointed out, we had a record low unemployment rate of 9%, which was something that most experts, but also other economists didn't expect to be able to achieve, and it was achieved precisely thanks to the policy being conducted, which is a policy that puts citizens' interests first. As a result, we have also remained a country in the region that has attracted the largest number of foreign direct investments that are being successfully implemented today, which will be realised successfully in the coming period and what is very important to these packages alone, the measures aside from the economic operators are also covered by agricultural holdings because we ourselves are aware that agriculture is a very important branch for the development of our country and economy. So in the next period, we're going to help them with this package. We have had opportunities as MPs to get to know ourselves and a report of the Fiscal Council in which they have, of course, stated by the standard procedure of criticism, their opinions that, of course, everything that the state takes is not exactly adequate, nor is it applicable by some economic doctrines they apply, so I will clearly suggest that what is taught in universities and the students of the Faculty of Economics is that in times when it is difficult and when the crisis absolutely needs to be applied to the Chinese doctrine which implies that the state needs its investments and investments to help the wheel of the economy work successfully, to help citizens to overcome this period, and of course when it starts in a period of prosperity and development, that it is very simple to leave everything to the market mechanism. What is interesting, criticises some of the measures that will apply now, which have been applied before. We all remember what they called it, a helicopter of money, that is, when citizens of the Republic of Serbia are given the opportunity to apply for 100 euros, and now they will have the opportunity to receive 60 euros' help and, of course, pensioners of an additional 50 euros. You see, they advocate in their positions of the market economy and what they criticise is why the state gives that money. A very simple explanation, economic operators are not just businesses, they're not just legal entities. Economic operators in someone's national economy, as well as the world economy, are workers and citizens who are part of that large system and will not be able to better define how money should enter the economy as aid but economic operators themselves. It's through this package of measures that you've predicted these citizens will use that money to complete some of their investments. As you said yourself, it was noted that last year there was a rise in the collection of certain taxes, which is, of course, thanks to the state's assistance to both economic operators and citizens. So I am an absolute point of view, as well as my colleagues, that this measure that has been applied and that we will certainly support one of the successful and useful, which will help us to fight this pandemic successfully in the coming period. Of course, they also criticise measures to help businesses, where they say that in addition to that dedicated part that goes into certain sectors of the economy, we also have non-purpose assets that will be distributed according to the demands of business entities, and I say again, the market is what in the best way, or economic operators are going to say in the best way that this money that the state has provided should be applied in some economy, should be applied to ensure that it continues to grow successfully in all parameters and even in their recognition, and we know that they are very stingy in the words of praise, they say that GDP growth of 6% is also reaching and that it can also be achieved with such a package of measures that we will apply. They also criticise certain investments in which the state invests. Of course, what we should say, absolutely and when the budget that we normally voted for this year is created, and now we will vote on the rebalancing, it is made to ensure that the state can continue to develop successfully, to implement the 2025 Plan that will allow the average earnings in Serbia to be 900 euros, a pension of 540 euros, which will provide new jobs, to ensure that young people stay in Serbia, to form their families, and of course the state itself should not give up during that period of its investment that is very important to provide something that is important to all citizens, and even those theorists who are so great advocates of the market economy that say that the state should only perform the function of the guardians, i.e. that these investments are very important. We have also seen on display exercises that have been made to have days, unlike the yellow tycoon periods that have melted everything they've arrived, sold out, we have a really powerful army, we have security services that can guarantee the safety and safety of all our citizens, we also have a military industry, or a dedicated industry that is proud and that will continue to develop in the next period. In any case, we have had the opportunity to hear from our esteemed colleagues what is foreseen by these measures, it is certainly commendable that in the coming period there will be a lot of investment in health and that you have shared with us information for Kovid Hospital in Novi Sad, which is very important for this fight, which will be another proof that we are in the segment and realization of very important investments and effective and successful, and all thanks to what is being realized is planned, being realised strategically. The decisions taken are not as political as the predecessors did, but as a result of facts, based on data and on analysis of all possible directions and how these strategies can be realised. Unlike you, ministers, President Vukic and the entire government who are struggling to make this country progress, that citizens live better, that this time of crisis our people travel, visit Serbia, that we also have tourists from other countries, as my esteemed colleague Alexander mentioned, that Dragan Gilas is certainly fighting for the development of other countries' tourism, so that today or yesterday, when he was, he went to Switzerland, and I am sure that it will actually be just one of the new series of Mauritius tours, given that he is slowly moving from country to country to check whether the accounts are good, whether it may be necessary to transfer money to other accounts, so perhaps even check out those who have not yet discovered whether they are safe and what the money is likely to be discovered in other accounts. In any case, let each of you do your job, as we know and by economic doctrine, it is very important to do the division of work, we will fight for the improvement of the citizens of Serbia, for progress, for the preservation of health, for our economy, they will fight for themselves and their pockets, because those "investments" they have done were only investments for their own pockets, by the most expensive options, and we are fighting to provide funds for themselves and for the most favourable conditions, and that we are indeed a country for pride and for an even greater number of investments, so in the day of voting, I will also support these packages of measures that are now ahead of us, which are very important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also the budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5803	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Marco, you have 17 minutes for the group. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5804	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my fellow Members and colleagues today have mostly said everything in my opinion what I should have said about these laws. Let only two sentences about them. Help, Mr. Minister, for citizens to remove the problems caused by Kovid 19 and first, both second and third aids were timely, effective and comprehensive. That's the most important thing about them, in addition to the content my colleagues and colleagues talked about today. Speaking of which, I have to say that the former government wasn't taking care of the fight against Kovid 19, it was an ally. When I say so, let me say, however, that Dragan Gilas, known for Europe as Dragan Gilas, to rock the country and President Vukic said on November 26th 2020, I quote - why Serbia is done to fight the crown of the virus high beyond the world and why it is done contrary to what serious countries are doing. So, criticising our measures that we saw, respected Serbian citizens, and who gave extraordinary results better than Gilasova, as he cites "serious countries", means we had the best results in Europe, one of the best results in the world. The same tycoon with 619m euros, with accounts in 17 countries around the world on November 13th 2020, lied when he said, quote -- the state of Serbia and President Vukic are not taking any steps to prevent the control of the virus, finished the quote. Can you, respected citizens of Serbia, believe that tycoon Dragan Gilas, for Europe, jilas, has said and lied? Now, that's this Dragan Gilas, who today, according to the minister of treason and false statements. Our president of the state and state took extraordinary steps in the fight against the crown virus whose results are the best in Europe, as I said one of the best in the world. The same tycoon Dragan Gilas with 619m euros, with accounts in 17 countries again insulted our country on 26 October 2020 when he lied, I quote - we have an insufficient amount of vaccine and over 65 years of age have no chance of getting a vaccine, finished quote. It is true that you saw respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia that all over 65 who wanted it could receive the vaccine in time. That's that lying pathological Dragan Gilas. The same tycoon with 619m euros, in a people known as Điki Mafia, accused President Vukic of having, I quote, guilty of every person infected with the virus, completed a quote. At a time when President Vukic was better than one ruler in Europe took all necessary measures to contain the crown of the virus. That's that liar, Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas, a tycoon of 619 million, is constantly trying to fight us with steel friends of the Chinese. So on 17 August, Mr 2020, he said, I quote - should we receive a Chinese vaccine that no one in Europe will receive, finished quote. Of course he lied and you saw respected citizens receive that vaccine. That's that Dragan Gilas pathological liar. Let's move on, Gilasu, in the shame of the state of Serbia and President Vukic, joined believe or not, no other academician Dr Dusan Teodorovic in a people called the academic head of the earthquake. Why the concussion? The people call him because when the name of the president of the state of Alexander Vukic is mentioned, he shakes his head with hatred. The moral gromada of academics, Dr Dusan Teodorovic, constantly insults President Vukic and the state of Serbia from day to day. That's what the academic head of the earthquake said, I quote -- the head of the Serbian state is a hooligan who is indisposed, finished quote. Furthermore, this moral humanist by academics Dusan Teodorovic, in a people called academics, the head of the earthquake fell so low that the tragedy of soldiers in Mali Zvornik used to wish death to the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic. Djilas' academician Dusan Teodorovic, in a people called academics, also attacked Zdravko Colic just because, believe it or not, at the opening of a private hotel, he sang in front of President Aleksandar Vukic. Imagine respected citizens, respected students and you decent Serbian Academy academics, one professor and one academic. The academician Dusan Teodorovic, a great moral gromada, in a people called as - the head of the earthquake attacked believe it or not, Momčel Bajagic called Bajag just because he sang at evening concerts, painted himself and praised SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. This moral gromada of academics insults, not only Alexander Vukic, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia who supported him by comparing, believing or not, with the inhabitants of Nazi Germany and Alexander Vukic with Adolf Hitler. This moral gromada of academics in a people called Doula and the academic earthquake gave up Kosovo and Metohija and constantly disrupts the territorial integrity of our country, especially when he said, I quote - Kosovo is not ours, but Albanianly, finished quote, and with this academic, the head of the earthquake has become the traitorous bastards of our country. The moral gromada of academics, Dusan Teodorovic, in a people called academic, was attacked by Alexander Vukic just because he was the initiator of a monument to the founder of the Serbian medieval state, Stefan Nemanja. A wise academic said, quote -- a monument to Nemanja means killing the history of the Serbian people, a finished quote. Can you believe the respected pupils of primary and secondary schools, respected students, respected fellow professors, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the academic earthquake said this? This puts the academic headmistress in those who are reviewing Serbian history and who are against culture of memory both against Serbian identity and against Serbian freedom. This moral gromada of academics Dusan Teodorovic in a people called the academic earthquakes believed or did not invite students of elementary and secondary schools to the streets, to demonstrations that are against the law and against the constitution, because it politicises our students and our students, or our children. This wonderful academic in a people called the "headquake" attacked no one but the actor Nenad Jezdić. You know why? Just because he appeared at the opening of Milos the Great and was in a delegation that welcomed President Aleksandr Vukic. Since the hatred of academics, the earthquake has said it will no longer buy, otherwise the excellent jezdic rakija and will remember it when it comes to power. Finally, honourable MPs, why did Dragan Djilas and academicist Dusan Teodorovic, Vuk Jeremic and others express hate and attack Aleksandr Vukic and the state of Serbia? First, because unlike them, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian patriot and a great Serbian patriot who, of course, they did not, as you saw. Secondly, because Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian reformer, and these gentlemen are not. Alexander Vukic carried out the reforms. Third, because the engine is the accelerated modernisation of Serbia that it is now actually implementing. Fourth, because Aleksandar Vukic is taking care of the health of every citizen, not only in the country, but also in the region. Fifth, because Alexander Vukic is an outstanding fighter and tireless worker, unlike them. The sixth, because Alexander Vukic leads the country to military neutrality, security and economic progress. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5805	Thank you. People's ambassador to Luke Kebar. You have six minutes and 16 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5806	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly, I am talking about very important draft laws and amendments to the laws concerning guarantee schemes related to the pandemic of the Kovid virus - 19, but I will certainly be attached to the budget rebalancing we had at the previous session. The budget rebalancing we talked about at the previous session is very important, because the goal of this country's rebalance is to further strengthen, especially the health sector, especially the economy sector, which is most important for our government. I will point out that the difference is 31 billion dinars compared to the current budget. This rebalancing gives us more money, especially for the health sector, and yet we're not crossing that Mastricht line, the public debt rate of 60%. I would like to point out that this rebalancing is primarily aimed at building these health facilities. A new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad is being built, and we know that the Kovid hospitals in Kruševec and Batajnica were built in record time. Of course, a Sputnik V vaccine is being produced within the Torlak plant. This production has recently started, but a factory with the United Arab Emirates and the People's Republic of China will also be built to produce a Chinese manufacturer's vaccine "Sinofarm". I would like to point out that we are the champions of vaccination, the leaders of vaccination, not only in the area of Europe, but throughout the world. I want to take this opportunity to appeal again to all citizens to apply through the portal e-Government, but also to contact their local communities and their municipalities, their municipal administrations in order to vaccinate in as effective a way as possible within the time limit and to vaccinate in the space of their municipalities, in their homes of health. Of course, it is important to note that the set of these laws, i.e. budget rebalancing, provides for monetary assistance, twice 30 euros. The payment will be in May and November. The application is made only once in the period from April 28th to May 15th and another 60 euros for the unemployed, for pensioners another 50 euros, and it is important to note that pensioners, cash welfare recipients and residents of the Criminal Penalty Office are automatically reported. So one application is required for all adult citizens and one application is made via the e-Government portal for the Treasury. Since May 5th, he can even use the phone. What's very important is I don't want to take up a lot of time, as far as these guaranteed topics and effects are concerned. Three guarantee schemes are at stake. The first guarantee scheme, as we know, was worth two billion euros, 1.7 billion euros has already been used, and 500m euros will be further defined for the economy, the economy sector. The second guarantee scheme provides an additional 500m euros for the most vulnerable sectors. It is a sector of tourism, hospitality, hotel and traffic. Amendments to the third guarantee scheme relate to aid in terms of three times one half of the minimum earnings as aid to entrepreneurs, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to large enterprises. It is very important that they also apply to the extended maturity of the loan to five years, the grace period from 18 to 24 months. With new purposes that not only apply to liquidity and to the financing of crafts assets in these companies and entrepreneurs, this also relates to the refinancing of existing loans, but also to the portfolios of the same bank. That's a very important point. The State undertakes, as a guarantor, to settle bank claims on the basis of claims which are part of this guarantee scheme financing system, where the State, i.e. the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, controls and oversees the entire open transparent process. This means that the state will primarily be a jury of those companies that are most vulnerable, most affected by this pandemic. Of course, it also applies to entrepreneurs, small, medium, micro, but also large enterprises. The entire guarantee scheme, i.e. a package of these three guarantee schemes, is about 953 billion dinars, which is aproximatively eight, 8.1 billion euros. Such a package of assistance for many European countries is unable to provide their citizens. This aid package is so strong, and yet with this aid package, we are not crossing that 60 per cent public debt limit towards Mastricht, which my esteemed colleague Kovacevic explained at the previous session, and the convergence criteria. So there's both the public debt rate and the escort interest rate and the inflation rate. All these criteria we respect, unlike many European countries, such as Germany, such as France, which are much more developed, but which themselves are unable to respect these convergence criteria. That's good and those results are good. This is an indicator of the successful policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic and the entire team working on this important, very important task. That's good. But unfortunately, there is one bad thing, and the misbehavior of certain members of the yellow tycoon company, those former yellow politicians who have made this country sick. First of all, I think of the most prominent among them, and that is Mr. Dragan Gilas, who stood out in his thieving. We all know of 619m euros, we all know that while Belgrade was run by a man led Belgrade to the brink of destruction, to a 1.2 billion-euro debt, 1.2 billion euros in Belgrade alone. It's a man, as we know, who often respects us for how we say he was some kind of republican official, and he was a city figure. No, Mr. Gilas was also a republican official. Let's remember the National Public Investment Office. So he was on the republican level as well as the city and municipal functions. Of course, I won't talk about the affairs of Mauritius, Switzerland, Hong Kong, about the Bridge of Ada, about many other affairs, I won't talk about his property, about his brother's property, but I have one key question -- why Mr. Gilas, if he's acquired everything in a legal and legitimate way, why did he create an octopus, a financial octopus, if all of this worked properly? Why? So he's hiding something. This Mr. Dragan Gilas is covering something up, in collaboration with Solak, in collaboration with Pascal Schmidt, and let's all remember that Pascal Schmidt is an obscenity character who's been celebrated, who's become famous to the general public by singing a song about cocaine in some clubs, nightclubs. He was with such people, ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens of Serbia, he worked with such people, this Mr. Dragan Gilas, and then he got out that they weren't his accounts, but he was the user of certain accounts, or his brother, or that Pascal Schmidt was of course the owner, and that they were only users, or that these accounts were not personal to him, but that these accounts belonged to his companies. Our people have a good saying, not a neck, but a neck. So it's your money, now whether it's your company or you're just a user of a particular account, that means you're deeply involved. Imagine what could have been done with this money, how much medical equipment, how many respirators, how many vaccines could have been obtained, how many guarantee schemes could be implemented with that money. It is therefore necessary that all the competent institutions investigate this case to the end, that we finally have an epilogue in the case of Dragan Gilas, and we will work, we will fight, Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are all together, we are all fighting for a healthy, healthier Serbia, even more modern Serbia, an even stronger Serbia, Serbia that has a bright future, Serbia in which there is no room for such obscenity characters as Dragan Gilas, Serbia that will win. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5807	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before the opening of the principled search – is there anyone else who would contact the representatives of the parliamentary groups or reporters? (No) I give the matter to the Proposer. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5808	Thank you very much, Mr. Dacic. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, firstly I want to thank you all for a very constructive dialogue during these two days while we discussed these six legislative solutions, including the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget, with a lot of comments, a lot of advice, a lot of ideas, so that we can make this budget even better and even more successful. I'd like to take the opportunity just to remind you of the February-March period last year when we first met the pandemic of the coronary virus, when we first heard there was a virus, among us all somehow some fear of what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what a virus, what it's all about. Then our president, President Vukic, said: "There is no surrender! We're going to fight, we're opening a fight on two fronts, we're opening a fight to save our economy, to preserve our economy, and we're opening up a fight for our fellow citizens' health." What I'm particularly proud of, maybe a little bit and emotional, because I know what we've all been through in the past year, we, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, have come out of these battles, and come out as winners, perhaps for the first time in recent history, Serbia shows that in times of the greatest economic crisis, perhaps the greatest health crisis in recent history can, know, because all citizens are solid, unique and responsible for coming out of this crisis as a winner. And this rebalancing here today will give us the opportunity to continue in the years ahead of us to stay and continue to be winners and to win both in the economy and in health care and in all areas of social life in which we may not have had the chance to be the best. This budget rebalance will give us the opportunity to continue and complete all the capital projects that we have already started, and continue new, new highways, new bridges, new tunnels, to continue, to finish and build health infrastructure, but also new hospitals, new clinical centres, to build this new vaccine factory that only a few of the most developed countries in the world have, will have the Republic of Serbia, to continue with the third aid package, to support our citizens, to support our economy, to reduce these negative consequences of Kovida-19. So thank you for understanding. I hope you will support this draft budget rebalance. Thank President Vukic for both vision and energy and strength to chase us and to push us out of these battles and battles as winners, and I am sure that in the same rhythm and same way, we will all be responsible and solid and in the years ahead that we continue to win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-22-0.u5809	Thank you, Minister. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 2 to 6 of the agenda. Since we have concluded the debate on points 1 to 4 of this session, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a day for voting on proposals for individual laws, shall be immediately upon the completion of the examination of these draft laws. In accordance with this provision, I set Thursday 22 April 2021, starting at 18 hours and 32 minutes, as a day for voting on points 1 to 4 of the 9th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Before we go to the polls, since I was on the official road today at the beginning of the day, I just want to give two information. As you know, today is the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust victims, genocide and other war victims. In fact, the general name refers to the anniversary when, on April 22, 1945, naked campers committed a heroic breakthrough of the Ustasha camp Jasenovac, with the goal of surviving at least one to tell the truth about Jasenovac. Of the thousands of suicide campers, only 80 survived, in Jasenovac, the most brutal and notorious of hundreds of death camps in World War II. Jasenovic campers were not lucky to be released as the Auschwitz campers had on January 27, 1945, when they were freed by the Red Army. This April, it's 80 years since the establishment of the first death camps in the so-called NDH, among which the most dramatic expression of the planned Ustasha final solution was genocide over children because NDH was the only one with specialized camps for children. Only because of the sins of Serbs, they were exposed to one of the most monstrous genocides and victims of Ustasha ideology, which, apart from Naziism, was undoubtedly one of the most deadly ideologys in the history of the 20th century. Jasenovic's carnage was recorded and based on the foundations of Serbian identity. Today we owe no memory to all the victims of Jasenovac, who are not only Serbs. We owe the truth to our children for the future. I would like to say on this occasion that in agreement with the state leadership, with the president of Serbia, above all Alexander Vukic, we will begin to work on a serious approach to the adoption of certain state acts on the occasion, given that to adopt such acts, which would set the term genocide, and in general this document was on the agenda, it is necessary to examine all this well. We also have a responsibility to the past but also a commitment to the present and to the future. That's what I wanted to say today because I wasn't at the beginning of this session today, since I was on my official trip to Banja Luka with President Vukic. The second thing I wanted to say to you, and I think it's important that the public hears it, which is that our chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, has scheduled for 29 April at 10.00 a.m. for the first public debate on constitutional amendments, i.e. the proposal for a change of the Constitution. That's what I'm saying because we're expected to give that plan and the schedule of public debates. As far as I understand from the president, there will be several public debates, not only in Belgrade, and then we will move to a decision on a proposal for a change of constitution, with the aim of public debates with professional associations, with representatives of European institutions, with course, courts, prosecutors, means, with those concerned, in order to achieve a broad consensus on the world of it. I apologize for what I said, unrelated to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 192 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and therefore, there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Republic of Serbia's 2021 Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the 2021 Financial Fund for Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Amending and Supplements of the Fund for Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for the 2021st year and the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision on the Amendments and Supplements to the National Employment Service's Financial Plan for 2021. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled and uniform search on the draft law, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill before we move to a decision on the bill, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justified reasons for their adoption. I therefore put on the vote a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Since we have completed our decision on the early entry into force of the law, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the Republic of Serbia budget for 2021, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law amending the Republic of Serbia's budget law for 2021. We are now moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to changes and the addition of financial plans for mandatory social security organisations for 2021. 1. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to give consent to the Amending and Supplemental Decision of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193, for – 192, not one. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2021. 2. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2021. 3. I would like to put the motion for a decision to give consent to the Amending and Supplemental Decision of the social security fund's social security fund for 2021. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent in the decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2021. 4. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Stopping vote: total – 193, for – 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent in the decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. Second item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Interim Register of Full-annual Nationals of the Republic of Serbia to pay cash aid for the mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic of the Cove — 19 REFERRED TO BY SARS-COV-2. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that no amendments have been submitted to the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the temporary register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Kovid pandemic – 19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 193, for – 192, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 10. The bill provides for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 194, for – 194. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 194, for – 193, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the bill. The third item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic of KOV – 19 IMPLEMENTED BY SARS-COV-2 I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the bill in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 194, for – 194. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law establishing a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic Kovid – 19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. Fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the establishment of a second guarantee scheme as a measure of FURTHER SUPPORT INDICATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE SARS-COV-2 PROGRAMME. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 194, for – 194. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after we've finished the vote, we will continue our work Tuesday at 10:00 p.m. on the remaining points of the agenda. I remind you once again that we will be working Tuesday and Wednesday, and the tenth session of the National Assembly will begin on Thursday. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask everyone to insert their identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
