ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11337	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I now ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a joint principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 to 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Business, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary, Dusan Vučković, Assistant Minister, Maja Sikimić, Assistant Minister for Intellectual Property, Vladimir Marić, Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandra Mihajlović, Assistant Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property, Jelica Trninić Šišović, Head of Department, Sandra Tasic, Head of Department of the Department of Finance, and Maja Vranić, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. The government's representative in the National Assembly, when considering these draft laws, was also appointed by Prof. Dr. Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. I welcome the representatives of the government present. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) of Article 170(1), I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: the amendment law and amendments of the patent law, the draft law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation, the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intes AD Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is by Angelka Atanaskovic, Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11338	Thank you. I'd suggest for speed if I could suggest all three laws at once. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-Presidents of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Law on patents, as a law of particular importance for the legal protection of finds, i.e. patents and small patents. The aim of the proposed amendments to the patent law is to comply with the EU's latest regulations, as well as to remove certain shortcomings identified in the application of the current patent law. The most significant amendments to the patent law refer to the field of certificates on additional protection and protection of the finding of small patents. The key amendments are, under one, an exemption from the certification of additional protection. The provisions of Regulation No 2019/933 lay down an exemption from the certification of additional protection if the production or storage of medicinal products or medicinal products is carried out on EU territory for export purposes. In accordance with the above amendments and additions to the patent law, it is proposed that a medicinal product or medicinal product protected by a certificate of additional protection be capable of being manufactured or stored in the Republic of Serbia only for export purposes, provided that the specific markings are marked with the packaging of that medicinal product or medicinal product. Also, the production of a drug or medicinal product may begin at the earliest six months before the expiry of the certificate of additional protection for storage on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in order to place it on the market following the expiry of the relevant certificate. The aim of the provisions governing the exemption from certification is to increase competitiveness and promote the growth of the generic drug industry in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the creation of new jobs that will contribute to the supply of the market under uniform conditions by allowing generators of generic medicines based in the Republic of Serbia to produce medicines for export to the territory of countries in which the protection of certification does not exist or expired. In this way, producers of generic drugs from the Republic of Serbia will be stimulated to participate effectively in other countries' markets. Under two, a little patent protection regime has been amended. Under three, a legal basis has been prescribed for issuing a patent file in electronic form. To coordinate with the practice of the European Institute of Patents, as well as adapt to the latest trends in digitisation of procedures conducted in front of state authorities in the Republic of Serbia. It is proposed that, at the request of the holder of the European patent registered in the patent register, the Institute of Intellectual Property may issue a file only in electronic form. So patent carriers will have the opportunity to declare whether they want to issue a patent file in paper or in electronic form. Under four, compliance was carried out with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Institute of Intellectual Property is obliged to provide information on which official records are kept by the competent authority. In view of the above, it is proposed to delete the provisions which prescribe that the applicant delivers the data himself, and it is prescribed that the Institute of Intellectual Property obtains such data under official duty. Thank you. That's all there is to this bill. In addition to your approval, I would like to present a proposal for the law of the Ministry of Trade, as my colleague is absent. Dear President, honourable MPs, colleagues, you are now facing a draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation signed in New York on 23 September, whose text was adopted by the Government of Serbia on 16 September 2021 with us. Bilateral diplomatic relations with the parliamentary Republic of Mongolia were established in 1956 and have since been traditionally good and friendly, and over the past years there has been an intensified political dialogue with this East Asian country. However, economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Mongolia is at an extremely low level and makes it a commodity exchange, while other forms of co-operation, especially those of productive and long-term character, have not been developed. The level of trade in goods is symbolic and in the last 10 years the largest value of $1.1 million was in 2019. Our exports amounted to 0.4 million dollars, while imports achieved were minimal and worth $0.002 million. There is a solid basis for co-operation in agriculture, light industry and textile industry, and cooperation opportunities can also be sought in the areas of infrastructure and construction, as well as in the areas of tourism, particularly eco-tourism and cultural and historical tourism, since Mongolia is considered an exotic and insufficiently well-known country for most Europeans. Given the decades-long friendship and good relations with our country, as well as the opportunities to develop the relationship of application of this agreement would further regulate bilateral and economic co-operation with Mongolia on an institutional level and thus create conditions for its improvement on long-term basis. Also, a legal basis would be created to establish a joint commission to monitor trade economic co-operation and to take appropriate activities related to its further improvement, as well as to remove potential barriers. Dear Members, I believe that the application of this law, whose principles are based on principles of equality, non-discrimination and mutual benefit, will create many significant opportunities for the development and improvement of economic and trade co-operation between Serbia and Mongolia and I believe that you recognise its full potential that can be further expanded in other areas of tourism, culture, education, and art in years ahead. Thank you. Now I have to do the next one. The third law that lies before you today is giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Bank Inteza, Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Belgrade, according to the public company "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the Treaty of Credit for the Strengthening Transport Capacity of Gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this Act on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Bank Inteza, Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka, Belgrade, in the following text – lender, under the authority of the public company "Srbigas" Novi Sad, in the following text – the borrower, are contained in Article 16(4). Public debt law, i.e. in signed contracts between the lender and the 40m-euro borrower, to boost the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia. Strengthening the transport capacity of pipelines contributes to the construction of new pipelines and further gasification of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in order to create conditions for the use of natural gas and gasification of the Zlatibor County is the first in a series of projects planned to boost the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia, so that the total sum is defined for this project up to 40m euros. Loan funds will be used to build pipelines on the territory of the Zlatibor district and the economy of the Zlatibor district is one of the few that record surpluses in trade exchange but, nevertheless, it is necessary to continue to work on achieving the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, further development and improvement of tourism, as well as new investments why further activities in the gasification of the Zlatibor district are necessary. Further gasification of the Zlatibor County will create conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all towns of the Zlatibor County and the integration of industrial municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. This will allow the use of natural gas as cheap and environmentally acceptable fuel, which will significantly disperse the electricity system. It is an area of great potential to increase economic activity that lacks natural gas as energy, why it is necessary to build water pipelines for Pribo, Nova Varoš, Prepolje, Senica and Rutoša. Two independent pipelines are scheduled. The first pipeline starts with a connection to the GMRS Rudine on Zlatibor, which is part of the Sevojno-Zlatibor development pipeline and supplies GMRS Rutoshi, GMRS Priboj, Nova Varoš, Prepolje. The second pipeline starts with the connection at the main Glogovik divorce node, which is part of the Alexandrovac-Kopalnik-Novi Pazar-Tutin divorce pipeline, which supplies GMRS Sjenica. The issuing of guarantees to the lender by a guarantee of up to 40m euros is provided for in Article 3. Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No 149/20, 40/21 and 100/21. The borrower has conducted a procedure for the purchase of financial services. The bids "Banke Inteza" A.D. Belgrade and "Rajffeisen Banka" A.D. Belgrade were selected in the above-mentioned procedure as the most favourable. The loan agreements provide that loans are to be granted under the following conditions – the amount of loans in dinar equivalent to the foreign exchange clause. The duration of the loan is eight years, including a two-year period. The withdrawal of loans in one or more tranches, the payment of loans is three months and the interest rate is from 1.48 to 1.57% on an annual basis, plus three months of eurobor. Thank you, these are the three laws you have at your debate today. I'd like to ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11339	I thank you, Minister Atanaskovic. Several competent committees have been reported. First, the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Mrs Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11340	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Presidency, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patents Act, has been further harmonising the applicable law with the relevant EU regulations, with Regulation No 469/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU since 6 May 2009 on the certificate of additional protection for medical products, which was later amended and supplemented by Regulation 2019/93, also the European Parliament and the Council of the EU since 20 May 2019, which entered into force on 1 July 2019 in EU territory. The provisions of this Regulation, as we have heard from the Committee on European Integration itself, prescribe an exemption from the certification of additional protection if the production or storage of medicinal products or medicinal products is carried out on EU territory for export purposes. In accordance with the above-mentioned draft law, it is provided that a medicinal product or medicinal product protected by the Additional Protection Certificate may nevertheless be manufactured and stored in the Republic of Serbia only for export purposes, provided that the specific markings are marked on the packaging of this medicinal product or medicinal product. Also, on the other hand, the production of a drug or medical product may begin at the earliest six months before the certificate expires to be stored on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in order to place the relevant certificate on the market after the expiry of the relevant certificate. We discussed this very briefly at the very session of the Committee on European Integration at the end of last week, that the beginning of the application of the Certificate Institute on Additional Protection in EU territory, back in 1992, was in the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Since then, the market for medicines and medical products has been rapidly developing everywhere. In recent years, there has been a major increase in the production of generic drugs and their active ingredients and the timely entry of generic drugs into our country's market, the Republic of Serbia, is particularly important for increasing competition and what is significant for citizens, reducing the price of medicines, which contributes to the sustainability of the national health care system. Since these days we discussed the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia from June last year to this year, so for this 2021, I would like to refer a little bit to the recommendations of this report relating precisely to this area. We know that this theme concerns the areas of Chapter 7 — intellectual property. It is known that the EU has harmonised rules for the legal protection of intellectual property rights, as well as rules for the legal protection of copyright and related rights. The rules on the legal protection of the right of intellectual property of the EU apply for example. patents, stamps, designs, biotech inventions, pharmaceutical products. When we look at the report of the European Commission and the evaluations relating to this chapter or this topic, it is emphasized that the Republic of Serbia has a good level of preparation in the field of intellectual property rights and that limited progress has been made in this past period just by adopting the Law on the Protection of Business Secrets and Preparation, I believe, these amendments and the addition of the Patents Act, which are today in front of us. Serbia needs in particular, and this is highlighted by the European Commission, to harmonise copyright legislation and related rights with EU directives in this area, collective rights management and so on. the actions of orphans, to amend and supplement to bring this patent law into line with the Certificates of Additional Protection Regulation, which we warmly welcome, to strengthen implementation through the improvement of capacity and coordination of different stakeholders. The European Commission has found that Serbia aims to ensure full compliance with EU law, including harmonisation in the areas of collective rights management and the work of orphans, in the process of making a new law on copyright and related rights. With regard to industrial property rights, Serbia adopted the mentioned Law on the Protection of Business Secrets in May 2021, which is certainly welcomed, with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia and here further harmonizes with EU legal fluids. I don't know if that's the case, I hope it is, but the European Commission says the Institute of Intellectual Property is still well-equipped. Once again, I would like to thank both the Ministry and my associates and everyone who attended the Committee session because they have brought this topic closer to us. Of course, in voting day, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11341	Thank you. Now the chairman of the Finance Committee, Aleksandra Tomic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11342	Dear President-in-Office, respected minister, fellow MPs, we adopted a bill yesterday at the Committee session saying Serbia is providing guarantees for the part concerning the debt of "Serbia" to introduce a gasification related to the Zlatibor County. It has been observed that the Zlatibor County is making more economic progress, that there is a surplus in their functioning when it comes to business activities and what is an indication that more competitiveness of the economy is being seen, that it is necessary to adopt, in addition to those districts that we have previously adopted in terms of gasification, simply so that the Zlatibor County also gets a gas network. Why is this important? I will remind you that by the end of May, the government adopted the borrowing, and in early June the National Assembly confirmed the gasification, i.e. the borrowing of "Srbigas" when it comes to the transport network for Kolubar County, Borski, Jablanski and Pcinski. We are now also receiving a portion of Serbia related to the gasification of the Zlatibor County. Serbia is becoming a country that uses exclusively high ecological standards in the use of its energy. Gas is one of the cleanest energys in Serbia. What I have to say today, and I think it's been missed somewhere, that last night the European Commission sent information that, after two years of stasis, Serbia will open Cluster 4, and that is exactly the cluster covering both energy policy and transport policy and environmental policy, as well as climate change. Therefore, it is a recognition of what Serbia has done in terms of environmentalism so that these people who put themselves in front of people who are concerned about the environment, so they politically want to capitalise every kind of disagreement, that is, the unrest among Serbian citizens, we should tell the citizens that what Serbia has done, and what it will only do in this area, actually shows how far we have made progress. This is a confession of results for what we've been doing so far. In this year, Serbia allocated out of the budget for environmental protection projects in three ministries of 24 billion dinars. Over the next year, she planned 36 billion dinars. Therefore, these are huge funds that are just saying that Serbia is making progress in the green agenda and that it simply has the support of the strictest institutions in this area, which is certainly the European Commission. I think that one of the agreements that I really need today is agreement that "Srbigas" would actually be in the citizens' interest because tomorrow they will have the opportunity to join the gas under the most favourable conditions. That's why I call on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11343	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Business, MP Veroljub Arsic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, patent law is certainly a reason to say hello. It is good to have legislation to protect domestic producers in the pharmaceutical industry. This is how we protect both our market and our employees and our industry. But don't mind me now that I won't pay much attention to that bill. I'll talk about another patent created in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's not in our office's jurisdiction, but it's also how we feel about the consequences of a patent like that. It is about a patent created on October 5th 2000 in Serbia, which is a fundamentally violent change of government, a patent that has served to change various authorities in various parts of the world. You know, like something undemocratic and something violent and that always causes a certain resistance to every honest citizen, a well-intentioned citizen, no matter where he is on the globe, they had to come up with a name that would justify this violence and cover it up and call it colored revolutions. Pronunciations for colored revolutions or occasion were often a non-democracy regime, a lack of human rights. These were the causes, and the causes were much deeper. Let's just say, as much as anyone likes today or not what I'm going to say is that a colored revolution in Serbia is going on right now. The occasion is the Expropriation Act. The occasion is the Law of Referendum. The occasion is Rio Tinto. The reasons are much deeper. The reasons why the colored revolution is being carried out is to remove the authority that has the support of citizens, unequivocal, proven so many times because through the shift of power supported by the Serbian civilian majority, some others would have finished their work here some years ago, some decades ago. The reason is that Republika Srpska and BiH disappear in the first place, which is why BiH is a unitary state in which Serbs will be disbursed. The reason for a colored revolution that lasts in Serbia is to finally resolve the issue of our southern province the way we don't want it, which is that Kosovo becomes an independent state in full capacity and has a chair in the UN, because they have a state that is dysfunctional and that is worth nothing without it. That is why it is necessary to change power in Serbia. It is necessary to change Alexander Vukic and the SNS through a colored revolution, in order to achieve that goal. That's the reason. The third reason is that those thieves who ruined our country after 5 October 2000 continue to do so. Because if we look at where all the colored revolutions were and the reasons they were created, let's say, was it in Libya, or the leads that this colored revolution had, is at least one solved? It's not. You have a country that is deeply divided, where one government recognises the international community, other people exercise effective authority in the territory of that country. Their citizens are trying to get their hands on Europe through the Mediterranean. It's a colored revolution. One country that is friendly to us and whatever they think of us now, we consider Ukraine as a friendly country and their people as a friendly people, had a colored revolution, not one but two. Have they solved any of their problems? No, they're not. Society is divided, on the brink of war. In Serbia, the occasion was Slobodan Milosevic and his shift. All right. But did Serbian citizens start living better after Slobodan Milosevic's shift? No, I don't. Have we joined the EU? Did we save Kim? No, I don't. Is our economy ruined? Yeah. Have we lost some of our sovereignty? Yeah. Well, that's the patent I'm talking about. It just takes a nice name. It's not a violent change of government anymore. It's a colored revolution. You don't have a spontaneous gathering of citizens if you have sources of funding, because whoever finances this spontaneous gathering of citizens has some political and economic goals that they will pursue if the colored revolution succeeds. Let Serbian citizens well imagine whether they will allow violence to change power again in Serbia, whether we will allow again the people who left us without 600,000 jobs, who left us without our factories. Is that gonna allow? Will they allow it? I found one detail very funny yesterday. An artist's debtor gathered, I say "debt," because Gilas lent him money, picked up his colleagues and took them to the valley of the Adriatic. You know what was funny-- ow, we didn't know what the field looked like. And now they've gone to defend the field! All our lives, we've been talking about people who've been in the sixth, seventh, decade of their lives, gone to defend the fields! They never soiled their shoe with mud. They will defend nature! Never. One more thing, they make fun of both the president of Serbia and the SNS and our highways and our hospitals and our clinical centres. They say Alexander Vukic makes the roads so that we can leave Serbia more easily. They say that, who live in a circle of twos, who lack nothing, nothing is missing! They say, whose parents fled their settlements because they had no way. They make fun of Serbia because it wants to be built, because it wants to be a normal country, because it wants to have its own industry, because it wants to have its own power not brought by Soros or Rockefeller or some other foundation. Well, I'd like to talk to you about that patent today!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11345	Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The People's Messenger Samir Tandir came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11346	Thank you. I would like to commend Minister Angelka Atanakovic's work, the Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, before I refer to today's legislative proposals. I want to thank you for visiting several times our country where I come from, the Sanjak municipalities, you were in a delegation when the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, visited Prepolje, and I think that is an example that other ministers should see. So it's not important just to have a cabinet, to form a cabinet, to have a portfolio or a portfolio, it's important to be with citizens, to be on the ground, because everything that comes through our reports, through statistics, it's one thing, and the other is when you talk to representatives of the local self-government with your eyes. What I also want to point out and praise is your colleague Dragan Stevanovic, the secretary of state. I think it's an example of a government official who is really a service to all citizens, to all local self-governments, and I want to say one example of how local self-governments are treated and how they are helped, so that they can pull back everything that your ministry projects provide. I appeal that in the coming years everything that, your ministry is very powerful and great, can be done for the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš, Sjenica, Tutin and Novi Pazar to do, because these are devastated municipalities, as we heard, I will refer to it, belong to the administrative districts of Zlatiborski and Raška. We see that the Zlatibor District is developing and let's give an even greater initiative to make this progress even greater. What I want to point out as a state act is the visit of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to the people of the Adriatic. I think that's the way one statesman behaves who wants to hear the voice of the people. So, those people who are directly involved in this whole case, he heard their attitude, their problem, and I have no doubt that the president will take his position according to everything he's heard from the citizens. All that others say is simply an attempt at one politicization that we can say is legitimate, but it basically has no weight. The weight has the attitude of those people who live there. If you're discussing my house, I guess I have the greatest right to state my position. When it comes to some other people, they can take their stand, not in any way politicalize, which is absolutely unacceptable. What I want to especially praise and to point out is that today we are talking about a gas pipeline loan related to the Zlatibor Management District, meaning the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš, Sjenica, where I come from. I am particularly happy and pleased to talk about this subject today. No economic development, no tourism development, no green gas-free agenda. Most of the municipalities in Sandzak really have problems due to decades of energism, most of the city's heat uses lubes and coal and creates a huge aerosol. New Pazar, when we look at those scales where this pollution is measured, he's a global champion, after New Delhi, Beijing. So China and India. You might think, New Delhi, a multimillion-dollar city, by some over 15, 20 million residents and Beijing, too, and then a New Market that has 120,000 inhabitants. So it's absolutely not a normal situation, but it's not just the work of today's government. It's an absolute consequence of decades of carelessness. For the first time today, we face and deal with these environmental problems. The pipeline is one of the solutions to these problems. I want to point out that in a coalition agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS construction of the pipeline is put at the top of the priority. We're talking about two policies here. The Justice and Reconciliation Party's policy, primarily created by the rickety president of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, put the first policy that comes from Sandzak, which is citizens, and Bosniaks and Serbs, first place, not functions and personal privileges. SNS policy recognized it and gave a minority community a chance to work through government participation to solve its local problems. I don't know what it is when anyone here talks, but I know who put what in the coalition agreement. I can now appeal to build a cosmodrom in Prepolje and Novi Pazar, but whoever builds it he should get that point and get that honor. So, we all talk nice and talk, but there are few people who act, who show concrete results and moves that what they say is behind their words. For example, it is our party, an example of which are our coalition partners. I want to point out once again the ricket of the president of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, a man who has never fought for his own interest, for his function, fought for the people. The fight for that pipeline, among other things, is his great success. I'm proud. The Stanka Law Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will vote for all the legal proposals that you have proposed today. As far as the pipeline is concerned, according to the information I have, and the minister is here, which I received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the construction of the pipeline to Novi Pazar and Tutin is currently in stalemate, and that is what interests citizens and built, due to the problem of field expropriation, but by 1 September 2022, the pipeline will be released into operation. It's a huge generational success. Most people when you say "gas pipeline," that's one simple sentence. I mean, we made a pipeline. But it's one generation project, and I think we should talk more about the successes we've achieved or which we're about to achieve. As for the pipeline towards Prepolje, Priboj and Novi Varosha, it will begin construction in February of next year. About 18 months or a year and a half are scheduled. Make it two years, but in two years, citizens and citizens and Prepolje and Pryboa and Nova Varoshi, in six months, citizens in Novi Pazar will have a pipeline, we will have green energy, we will have cheaper energy and we will solve a huge ecological problem. Now I ask one question – should the people who did it be acknowledged? Of course you should. It doesn't need to be politically colored, it just needs to be human and say – every honor, take off your hat and say – you have achieved this success, and this success is, among other things, the fruit of a coalition agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS. That's what the coalition agreement says. Others, if they have it in their agreement, feel free to show it. As far as the Agreement with Moldova is concerned, it is a trade agreement. Any trade agreement that expands the field of action for our business community and for our economy is very important. Maybe someone will say that Moldova, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mongolia is not in line with some of the most attractive business destinations, but we can also talk about politics during former President Joseph Broz Tito, but in foreign policy, we'll agree that it was perfect -- opening doors both in the east and west. The summit of non-classified people that took place here in Belgrade a few months ago is proof that today's government, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, is actually opening up to our citizens and our economy doors both east and west. I think that's the policy we're going to need to implement. The European Union is our most important foreign policy priority. I would like to congratulate the Government on opening Cluster 4 which, among other things, concerns the environment, but other than the EU, which is both the biggest investor and the most important foreign policy priority and value system that we want to belong to. And the EU countries are working together with everyone. I want to give an example of the North Stream, when the German Chancellor under pressure from the business community in Germany, continued to build a pipeline -- the North Stream, though allies from the North Atlantic NATO Pact were pressured to stop it. So the Chancellor acted by putting her interest in the economy first. I think it's an example of how every country and US and other European countries and world countries are doing and how I need them. I see this treaty with Mongolia in that light. So Russia, we also have more agreements with the Russian Federation, and that's what I'm saying, it's not supposed to be a taboo topic, it's an important world country, an energy force. If we hadn't had a good relationship with the Russian Federation, the price of gas would have been far higher. It's proof of one responsible, wise policy. Someone on the global stage may like it or not like it, but what we need to lead in this policy is our business, political, geostrategic interests. When it comes to China, it is the People's Republic of China, the country which is the biggest investor, has this mega-project – the Silk Road, and every country in the EU, we see an example of Italy, sees that in some way their interests are calculated into this big project and that Chinese investors come, as we have big Russian investors in Great Britain, we have in Switzerland, Germany, why they wouldn't be here. As far as co-operation with the United States is concerned, I'm talking about signing an agreement, because every week we have some agreements here. They're all our partners, they're all our friends, so no agreement is irrelevant, and that's proof of the breadth of political action when it comes to foreign policy and when it comes to economy. As far as patent law is concerned, an important law that harmonizes our legislation with EU standards. I think in the field of intellectual property we really have a great chance when it comes to development that will blow even more into our genius's wings to hire people through start-up programs, start that innovation, and open new ideas to some new fields in the industry. For example, it is a silicone valley in the United States and the state of Israel that really has the best start-up programs. I see through this law that this government, that your ministries are working seriously on it and that they see our development chance. In the day to vote, the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' parties will support these agreements and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11347	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Jasmina Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11348	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. Dear Minister Mihajlovic, respected members of the Chamber of Ministers of Industry and Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this issue specifically about the patent law, we need to distinguish between finding and patent. We can define the finding as a product or process that offers a new way to do something or a new solution to a technical problem, and the patent is a universally accepted legal form of protection of finding. In Serbia, legal protection of finds is governed by the 2011 patent law. The current law still defines that finding is protected by a patent or a small patent. This means that the person who has filed an application to protect the finding has the exclusive right to use it economically while the protection lasts. The proposal on amendments to the patent law, which is before us today, is in line with EU regulations in this area and brings us a certain improvement, i.e. improving the applicable law, which primarily protects producers in the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, the most important amendments to this proposal are the following. The first amendment refers to an additional protection certificate. Namely, what does that mean? For certain products, such as medicinal products and plant protection products, special authorisation should be granted to the competent authority or body before placing it on the market. Since the manufacturer is unable to put the drug or plant protection product on the market for the time being, he is unable to even profit economically. A global institute is therefore introduced, which is a certificate of additional protection. This certificate is a territorial right and represents an extension of the duration of patents for a maximum of five years, with a clear limit that the possibility of extension applies only to the case where the subject of protection is a patent medicinal product or plant protection product. With the growing and increasing development of the pharmaceutical industry and the production of drugs, there is also a sharp increase in the production of generic, or drugs equivalent to the originals that have expired or never had any patent protection. Producers from countries who have adopted the Institute of Additional Protection Certificates and have introduced them into their legislation, such as Serbia, can very often come into an unequal position with producers from countries that have not done so. Namely, while Serbia's drug manufacturer is legally limited to any activity in terms of temporary drug or storage operations until it is approved, producers in countries that have not introduced this institute into their legislation are free to carry out their preparatory actions for the production of drugs or plant protection products and to store them. The moment the additional protection certificate expires, the Serbian producer can only then start production preparations, while the other product has already been placed on the market and is in absolute advantage. This is all legal, but the legislator rightly considered it necessary for our manufacturer to protect in such cases, and therefore this bill provides that, despite the fact that the patent holder has a certificate of additional protection, it will not prevent the producer of the medicinal product or plant protection products from the country that recognises it to start preparing the medicine and to store it. Of course, during this period the medicine cannot be placed on the market, because it is the essence of the certificate, but it can be done all the preparatory additional actions. This removes the imbalance, opens up the possibility of expanding production, and hence new jobs in the pharmaceutical industry, and our producers become more competitive on the market. I believe that such a solution contributes to the greater possibility of creating a society of equal chances, and it is a more humane society of equal opportunities and solidarity that seeks the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, to which I belong. Because one of the fundamental principles of social democracy is the equality of people and the right of each individual to equal opportunities. The second amendment to this law consists of a change in the legal regime of a small patent. In fact, the legislator knows more about the difference between patents and small patents. It is essential that the small patent does not need to meet the criteria set out in the patent protection application, which is that the product is new, that it has an intellectual level and that it is industrially applicable. A small patent is not subject to the obligation of essential examination. Inventivity levels are one of the main differences between patents and small patents. The small patent is intended only for inventions in terms of solutions relating to the configuration or construction of a product or the layout of its components. In the applicable law, the subject of a small patent is restricted. The proposed amendment of the law extends, and it is proposed that we can now protect a product that represents a technical solution to a particular problem, not just the construction of a product. Although the scope of these products is somewhat limited, this change contributes to efficiency and economics, as the small patent protection process is faster and cheaper than the patent protection process. The next amendment refers to the publication of a patent file in electronic form. When an application is submitted, the Institute of Intellectual Property shall take certain actions in terms of examining all the allegations contained in the application, then determine whether all the conditions are met, and then issue a patent document published in the Official Messenger and finally issue a patent file. The proposed amendment shall be accompanied by a patent file, in addition to paper form, issue and electronic form, in accordance with the needs of practice, modern flows and in accordance with the rules of the European Patent Organisation. Finally, the final amendment is in fact a alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Namely, the Office for Intellectual Property shall keep a register of patent representatives, and upon enrolment of these representatives in the Register of the Institute of Intellectual Property under official duty they will seek all the information that other state authorities are obliged to supply. These would be the short and most important amendments to this bill when it comes to innovative solutions and inventions, i.e. patent protection applications. If we talk about new innovative solutions and patents in the past year, more than 180,000 patents have been reported to the European Patent Office. This number may seem impressive, but it is still a decline of almost 1% compared to a year earlier. Of course, this area of discovery was affected by the pandemic caused by the Covid 19 virus. In line with the world’s situation, most patents were reported in the field of medicine, pharmacology, and biotechnology. The next most innovative area in 2020 was digital communications, thanks to finds in the 5G network and artificial intelligence. Just in accordance with the circumstances caused by the pandemic, at least patents were reported in the area of air, space and car traffic. According to the European Patent Convention, signed in 1973 in Munich, the European patent holder in each country enjoys the rights and legal protection he would have in his country. Among the 44 signatories of the Convention are all 27 EU countries. Serbia joined the Convention in 2010 and belongs to the European family, i.e. the European Institute for Patents, the largest in the world. It is interesting to note that there are as many as 6400 employees and is one of the largest institutions in the EU. The European patent office last year has most requested it from the United States, about 44,000, then Germany, close to 26,000, Japan 22,000, China 13,000, and France 10,000. The increase in numbers requires records of South Korea as well. In the region, Croatia had 22 requirements, Serbia eight, Bosnia and Herzegovina four, Montenegro two and northern Macedonia one. Otherwise, about 200 new patents are protected annually in Serbia. Most of the findings are in the fields of electrical engineering, agriculture and medicine. The Republic of Serbia has a long tradition of discovery. Back in the Middle Ages, a relationship to technical improvements was nurtured. Over the centuries, many Serbian inventors have made a huge contribution to the development and promotion of society in general. Once the inventors were genius individuals, often misunderstood and sometimes rejected by society, but mostly persistent and completely devoted to their inventions. Very often, they did not experience deserved recognitions and economic benefits, but that was why mankind was richer to find them. We are all familiar with the example of Nikola Tesla, who has devoted his entire life to discovery and left all of his intellectual wealth to mankind as an inheritance. Besides the public of well-known inventors and their works, such as Tesla, Mihajl Pupin, Milutin Milankovic, there are those less famous whose contribution to discovery is extremely large. Many of their inventions, unfortunately, were not protected. I think that we should keep working on the education of the population, primarily businessmen and entrepreneurs, on the need to protect finds, both in order to prevent the adoption and the way in which they most effectively use and improve their business. When it comes to the acquisition of inventions, one of the most famous patent disputes in science refers to the finding of a lightbulb. Some believe the lightbulb was invented by Nicole Tesla, and he patented Thomas Edison and took all the credit. Today, the situation in the field of discovery is a little different. In addition to the fact that there are a large number of companies that stimulate and allocate large financial resources to motivate scientists to create innovation and find new technical solutions and improvements, individuals, but also legal persons protect their inventions through patents. In modern times to be the owner of patents besides great economic justification, sometimes the thing is prestigious. The protection of patents today is of utmost importance both for the sake of the economic security of individuals or companies and for the progress of society as a whole, but we must not forget to prevent the theft of innovation and invention. That is why it is necessary in a legislative sense and, in every other respect, in an area that is rapidly developing, to constantly improve in order to encourage invention for the benefit of all. The famous American scientist and inventor, inventor of the Polaroid camera, Dr. Edin Land said, the only thing that keeps us alive is our glow, the only way to protect our glow is our patents. These changes and additions are heading towards the promotion and modernisation of the patent law, which is in line with EU law, which regulate this area and will therefore support the SDPS parliamentary group. Also, we will support the Agreement with Moldova and the agreement on a credit for the financing of pipelines in Zlatiborska and Raška County, because it is one of the vitalities for citizens of more municipalities, Prijepolje, Prijebo, Novi Varoshi, Novi Pazar, but it is also a project that will contribute to the improvement of the state of the environment throughout Serbia, which is why, as I said, we will support all these three legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11349	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before I give my word to the next speaker, please welcome the representatives of the People's Party of Austria who are watching this session from the gallery. Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, master Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11350	Thank you. With respect, Minister Tanaskovic and his co-workers from the Ministry, respected Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Mrs Jevdzic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are united with the discussion of three draft laws and parliamentary groups of JS, so to mention the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on patents, so the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa and Raiffeisen Bank in respect of the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas", and under the Treaty on Credit for the Strengthening Transparent Capacity of Gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia, as well as a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Mongolia on Trade and Economic Co-operation. Of course, at the very beginning, it will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the bills mentioned. At the very beginning of my presentation will be focused on the patent bill and to say right now, the Minister of the Protection of Findings in our country is governed by the patent law and the aim of this law is to bring the applicable law in line with the relevant regulations that are certainly in force in the EU. Otherwise, let me say, to define the invention as a product or process that offers some new way to sort something out and offer some new solution to some technical problem. Of course, this bill regulates the legal protection of finds, therefore, the Minister through patent or through a small patent. On the other hand, looking at this bill, it is very important that existing law solutions put producers in an unequal position, therefore, domestic producers, generic medicines, in relation to legal entities in other countries which, I say, do not recognise certification. This bill, among other things, provides for a medicinal product or a non-medical product protected by a certificate, to be manufactured, on the other hand, to be stored in Serbia, but only provided that the packaging is, I say, marked in a regulated manner. The production of drugs can begin in Serbia no later than six months before the expiry of the most important, this certificate, as I said for storage or to say for further exports. Since the start of the application of the certification institution, you know that it has been in the EU since 1992, and as far as Serbia is concerned, this area of medicine and medical material has been taking major steps forward. Here, and a few figures that may be important to see where Serbia is at this point compared to other countries. When the number of patents reported in Serbia compared to the EU, for example, at this time per million inhabitants, Serbia reports some 50 patents, unlike the EU, where it is some 230 patents. On the other hand, investment in research in Serbia compared to other EU countries is somewhere below 1% of GDP, unlike, on the other hand, the EU's percentage is somewhere over 2% of GDP. Minister, you will agree, Serbia is taking big steps forward and as far as this area is concerned, we have made a huge step. Serbia's budget increases every year as far as the area is concerned. So today it's ten times larger than it was, say, four years ago. And when we talk about ordinary life, when it comes to the role of patents in everyday life, patents represent, let me say, the everyday life of today. When we want a patent to be reported, the applicant is obliged to describe the discovery completely clearly so that an expert in the relevant area can perform it. On the other hand, the patent provides the holder with a social affirmation for creative work, as well as a material finding fee that has a certificate on the market. What is very important, Minister, is that at the same time, it encourages invention that ensures the development of science and techniques and improves the quality of human life. Minister, now what is very important to me, what I want to share with you, you come from the economy, and you will agree with me that Serbia is taking big steps forward and not just in this area I'm talking about today, Serbia is taking big steps in other areas as well. Here, I can only mention some, let's say, at this point over 60% of all investments coming to the Western Balkans are heading towards Serbia. Our economic downturn or growth is dominant at this point, on the other hand we have fiscal, monetary stability, miles of highway and if I were to talk about all the results now, it would take a lot of time, but what I want to say to you, which has left a special seal lately. I'm coming, the Minister of Kragujevac and the National Data Centre is opening in Kragujevac. When I talk about it, by opening a state-owned date, Serbia becomes the country with the most modern database for its not only state but for its citizens on the other hand and for companies. The Data Centre on the other hand not only puts the Kragujevac but the whole of Serbia on the map of this part of Europe, but we cannot, Minister, say only this part of Europe when we talk about this area, because this institution does not exist only in this part of the region, but it does not exist in the wider part of Central Southeast Europe. On the other hand, the State's given centre is, I say, built on an area of 14,000 square meters and what's important in it will be housed the right state platform for artificial intelligence. Of course, I said at the outset that the JS parliamentary group would support this bill. When we talk about the bill on granting the consent of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa and Raiffeisen Bank, and as regards the task of the company "Srbigas", we are talking about further gasification of Serbia. At this point, we are only talking about the gasification of the Zlatibor County. Minister, as someone who comes from the economy, you will say that Zlatibor is a tourist destination, but this gasification brings about new investments, and on the other hand, the tourist offer of this region will be improved. On the other hand, it is estimated that there are about a million households in Serbia that use solid heating fuels and further gasification of Serbia are estimated that by 2022 the number of these households will be reduced by half, and on the other hand I will not tell you how important it is when we talk about environmental pollution. It is certainly important here to highlight the great importance made by the state when it comes to the price of gas and the enormous merit of the Turkish Stream project. What is the importance of the Turkish Stream project, it will probably also be for our energy independence, will tell the time ahead. Otherwise, let me say, this project is just a few parameters, it's 930 kilometers long, the capacity of this current is about 31.5 billion cubic metres of gas. The first leg passes through Turkey, and what is significant for us is the second leg going on Bulgaria's Serbia towards Hungary. The capacity of each of these arms is about 15.75 billion cubic metres of gas. What is significant to us, the second leg goes from Bulgaria to Serbia to Hungary. The capacity of each of these arms is about 15.75 billion cubic metres of gas. This amount of energy, the minister, is enough, let's say it warms up some 15 million medium households. Serbia built a 403km-long bus pipeline, and it goes from Bulgaria to Hungary or better to say, from Zaječar to Horgos, and of course the smallest route is only 15km through Hungary. At the very end of the minister, when it comes to the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation, it should be said that Serbian-Mongol relations are traditionally good and they are developed. But the parameter that in 2020, some Serbian exports to Mongolia are just below 400,000 euros, and imports from Mongolia are on a statistical error. He's talking about there's a huge space for further co-operation. Minister, I'm not going to tell you that when you sign a co-operation with a country, a huge space opens up to co-operate with that country and in other areas of great importance for both countries. Also, when we talk about this friendly country for us it is very important to say that this country is principled on our southern province, and on the other hand it gives great support to our territorial integrity and sovereignty. At the very end, Minister, just once again to say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11351	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Angelka Atanaskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11352	Thank you. First, I would like to address MP Kosanovic, to note that in relation to all these praises about the patent law itself, Serbia in 2020 has progressed five places on the Global Innovation Index list. This is an indicator of how far Serbia is progressing towards the protection of all inventions, in addition to all the other progress that you yourself have mentioned as regards the construction of roads, pipelines, hospitals and all that the president has done together with us as our accompanying members of the government, and I think that he has shown it by his own tour of all those places, I don't think there is a place in Serbia that he hasn't visited and has not self-initiatedly shown how much he gives to first in collaboration with people what they think, what they need, and we are here to do it and to fulfill it. Just because all the laws are here, as long as they've been passed this year, shows how seriously the government takes all these tasks and works to get closer to EU entry, and thus to improve the lives of our citizens. As for the Karanac MP, I must say that the Institute of Intellectual Property has a Centre for Education and Information. The center conducts training for our businessmen. So far we have visited 455 small and medium-sized enterprises, held dozens of seminars attended by thousands of businessmen, academic citizens, officials and judges. So, besides our classic job at the Ministry, we're also working on the education of our businessmen, because not everyone is at that level that people can handle themselves, and then we're trying to get our departures straight and help them make progress. I think the Ministry of Business led me to really try to hear people, as one other MP just said, so far I've visited Serbia over thirty and some cities and companies, probably 60, 70. It's not just foreign investment, I have to say, and they're very important, as I replied, it was the other day in the assembly. They're very important to us because of the destruction of the past 20 years of our industry and the world at all. All those who are today propagating and saying that they can do better, they've been working to destroy our entire industry and our country. So, what I'm saying is that in addition to these foreign investments, I've seen fantastic domestic companies in my tours. It is a great boost and a sign that Serbia is working on itself, that Serbia has its businessmen who are doing excellent work. It's something that we need a lot more to help them with, we need to rely on our people and in our programs that we provide as help and for the purchase of equipment and for start-ups and for everything you've said, help them catch up with Europe as soon as possible and that we can continue to work and that our children have a future here and not around the world the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11353	Thank you, Minister. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly National MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11354	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Yevdzic. Dear Minister Atanakovic, today we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patents Act which regulates the legal protection of inventions from any area of technology that is new, which has an inventive level and which is industrially applicable. Under the current Act, patents last 20 years counting from the date of submission. Since the adoption of the patent law changed the conditions in which they are implemented primarily by accelerated technological development, it was also necessary to adapt legislation to this. For example, in Article 121 of this Amending and Supplementing Act, it adds an obligation to the Institute of Intellectual Property to publish on its website information on production which constitutes an exemption from certification protection. Also, compared to the period defined before the patent law was passed, there was a need for more precise definition that finds can be protected by patent and small patents, such as biotechnology findings. One of the objectives of proposing additions and amending the Law on Patents is to bring it into line with the newest regulations of the European Union, primarily in the field of medical products, which also determines the decision of the Republic of Serbia to remain on its European path. We consider it a good solution for the promoter to introduce the concept of a certificate extending the right to patent, for medicines and medical means, because this type of product can be placed on the market only after obtaining the authorisation of the competent authority. This period may be shorter or longer, reducing the possible time of commercial use of such a product by registered patent. The PUPS Group "Tri P" considers that the proposer of these amendments and the addition of the patent law has made one very important addition in the field of medicines and medical resources, making domestic producers of this type of product more competitive for foreign producers in this group. Namely, the regulation of exemptions and the protection of certification establish more equal conditions between domestic and foreign producers of generic drugs, no matter where production takes place. The new legal solution has defined that domestic producers are able to carry out preparatory actions for the production and storage of a particular drug, thus bringing them into a more equal position with a foreign producer on our market. Taking into account all of the above, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patents Act. Today, he would also talk about a law that defines the guarantees that the state of Serbia should give to the Bank "Intesi" and "Rajffeisen" Banci regarding the loan for the process of strengthening the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia. This job is realised, as you well know, by the Public Business "Serbian Gas", and in this case the level of gasification on the territory of the Zlatibor district will be raised, with the view that it is estimated that by joining the gas network of the citizens of individual consumers and especially the economy of this part of Serbia, the development potential of cities and municipalities of this region has been significantly improved. First of all, in terms of efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, further improvement and development of tourism, as well as the attracting of new investments, the Zlatibor County is otherwise prominent in trade exchange, and the construction of a divorceous urban network towards Priboj, Novi Varoša, Prepolje and Sjenica will place all the capacities of this part of the Republic of Serbia in place. One pipeline starts with a connection on Zlatibor as part of the Sevojno-Zlatibor pipeline, which will supply Priboj, Nova Varoš and Prepolje, and another pipeline is part of Alexanderovac-Kopalnik-Novi Pazar-Tutin's divorce pipeline, which will provide households and Sjenica's economy. In conclusion, the two pipelines, Serbia, will be further networked with a gas network and energy that meets both economic and ecological requirements of the new era. The loan itself has been taken for eight years with a period of two years, and the funds can be withdrawn in one or more tranches. The repayment of the loan war is three months. The PUPS Group – "Tri P" believes that the implementation of this arrangement will further boost the competitiveness of the production of the Zlatibor County and this part of Serbia and that citizens of the gas-restricted municipalities will be able to use one of the most profitable energy sources at present. Serbia's gasification adds to the even development of all its regions. Dear Members of Parliament, Vice-President Jevdzic, taking into account all the advantages and benefits that will be realised with this loan and the necessary guarantee for its implementation, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will vote for the adoption of the set of these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11355	Thank you. Do any of the other representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic – for our children, Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11356	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected minister, fellow MPs, today we have three proposals for legislative solutions that clearly show that Serbia is changing and that these changes go to large and large steps that simply, many political actors on this stage, who may want to be part of the future, do not understand and that is what we are, in fact, obliged as MPs to give citizens full information at any moment about how Serbia is really progressing, especially when it comes to European integration and when it comes to patent law and when it comes to international agreements with mngo states, so now we have full information about how Serbia is progressing, but also about the gasification of Serbia. When we talk about patent law, it should be said that the Institute is a certificate of additional product protection, in fact, a solution that we are now introducing in principle how Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic and that is what shows that we are really harmonizing with developed European Union countries when it comes to our economy and all our activities. When we talk about an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on 23 September, it should be said that this is actually the basis for the formation of two commissions to monitor the trade and economic co-operation of these two countries. So this also shows how much these economic activities need to be monitored and what they are certain to grow in the coming years. We today have a statement from the finance minister, which is that Serbia will obviously end with the highest growth rate this year when it comes to the region, and even somewhere we will deal with the most developed countries of the European Union in this fight for the first place and what is important to say that today, when we talk about issuing guarantees for the "Serbigas", for the gasification of the Zlatibor County, we need to say that we have to look at this in the light of the opening of Cluster 4 on Monday, means, the advice of the European Commission, or the European Union has informed the Serbian government and the competent ministries that parts concerning both the "Green Agenda" and the sustainable connection, i.e. The areas which Serbia has dealt with in the past year when it comes to the work of the government and the competent ministries, that is also the area of environmental protection and climate change areas, but also the area of energy policy, trans-European networks and traffic policy are, therefore, areas that are simply recognised by the European Union that we are really on the path to developing shoulders with those countries that have developed economies. Now, when we talk at all about today's borrowing, i.e. guarantees that the Assembly has to confirm, signed by the Government, we're talking about guarantees from banks like Raiffeisen, and I think it's "Integence" and I think it's the banks with which it actually works, because I think the earlier guarantees that were provided by these banks in late May were also because they proved to be the most effective in co-operation with "Srbiagas" and apparently give the best conditions to complete such important projects. The conditions under which these loans are raised, i.e. to provide guarantees, are precisely showing within which deadlines Serbia will carry out the gasification. When it comes to this exchange clause, it's been said that you have two years of grace and that interest rates are very favourable. They range from 1.48% to 1.57% on an annual basis, with three months of war being paid. Now, when we look at how much "Srbigas" he did in 2020, it should be said that according to official data, it was 507km of distribution network only in 2020, which is 4.6% more than in previous and so far, with the end of 2020, Serbia had 11,507km of network and 4.259 connections made in last year. This shows that the total number of connections in Serbia is 120,159, but is 95.6% of households. What does that tell us? This tells us that in this year, this number will certainly be higher, especially since "Srbigas" started at the end of May, in early June that both Borsko and Zaječar County and Jablaničko and Pcinjski, and now Zlatiborski and this tells us that the benefit for citizens is to introduce the gas next. This means that it will have the opportunity for citizens where the pipeline passes will be able to pay for a 780-euro gas connection in 36 months without interest. I think that is of great importance, that the state has given great support to citizens to simply introduce this purest kind of energy into their households and thus, in fact, we show that we are implementing this "Green Agenda" that is so talked about, because European representatives themselves are talking about the Green Agenda simply having no political colour. We are now coming up with that story that wants to use certain topics for its political colours, who wants to raise and manipulate Serbian citizens on certain issues to become recognizable in the public, to carry out certain protests with which they would head when elections next year come and simply try to get into parliament and try to talk about topics that really have nothing to do with environmental protection, or expropriation, or with a referendum. It is simply a matter of how to bring Serbia down, how to bring down Alexander Vukic, because obviously all this work, when it comes to Serbia's progress, is really on the back of Alexander Vukic despite all the challenges we face and despite all the crises that he has simply survived, and the political actors who make up this assembly majority and who make up the government, the ministers who are in the government of the Republic of Serbia at the most difficult times, and that is what needs to be said to citizens today, that there are no protests that are really inspired by these topics that are trying to impose themselves in public, because today is no longer the topic at all how Serbia has managed to get the lowest price of gas, or to keep the price of gas in Serbia, which is $270 per 1,000 cubic, and you know that the market price is $1,000 per 1,000 cubic cubic cubic. Today, it is not the topic of how Serbia is being gassed, how we change the boilers that are on lube and coal, in schools, in hospitals, in thermal power plants, in parts relating to the gasification and heating of citizens both in Priboj and in Novi Varosha and in Valjev, that in fact, the degree of pollution, when you look at official data, is drastically smaller in these cities where boilers are replaced and bio-mass boilers are placed. That Serbia has adopted all laws relating to the Green Agenda when it comes to energy and has launched a whole new cycle when it comes to the application and the EU directive in this area, but has kept many things in the energy sector, precisely because of its stability. You need to step by step, not to rush and make decisions overnight and break something when it comes to the thermal power plants themselves, shut down everything, and become energy-dependent, but simply go step by step in introducing that Green Agenda. It is, in fact, a model of the Serbian Green Agenda, to ensure economic growth and development, thereby using both renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, but to secure jobs and to keep the jobs of Serbian citizens in these difficult times, when we move from a health crisis to an energy crisis in the world. I think Serbia is looking for that balance. That balance was obviously found. When we talk about those people who want to exploit the people who live in 12 villages around Loznica, then we talk about that these citizens must know the truth, that they must know the truth that in 2004 and 2005 research rights were given to the company Rio Tinto, that this was done during those who then led the Ministry of Environmental Protection, you remember Mr Dulic and Mr Gilas, who led the Ministry of Economic Development, i.e. for the national and investment plan and Mr Tadic, who was then the president of the state. The projects were then acceptable and even advertised in the second daily RTS and depicted as Serbia's future. Don't forget that in 2005, a brand-new mineral was found, in 2006, called jadarite, precisely because it was found in the valley of Jadra, that in 2006, it was entered in the catalogue of new minerals, that it was found the way that such ore was processed and found what it gives, which you benefied. That 1.7% gives this lithium, which is the future of world and economy development, to give more than 25% of birth acid, which is used in the detergents and cosmetics industry and which gives certain sulphates used in the textile industry. Therefore, the multiple benefit is in general this ore found in this area. The issue of citizens who did not give, but sold Rio Tintu their property and their fields is now opening at the moment when all research rights are concluded, when it comes to Rio Tinto. Why is that happening? How was Mr. Blagojevic's field of two hectares and 84 acres of forest sold for 717.000 euros, almost in June of the month paid, and how did the fields, we heard from Serbian citizens, sold to Rio Tintu for 16,000 euros per hectare? There's a big difference. There is a huge difference between purchase contracts, people who live there and who have agricultural land and those who have come obviously together with information that Rio Tinto will work in 2004, 2005 and bought a certain country and now, at the end of the research rights, sold for 717,000 euros. Think about it. How is it possible that this is exactly the man who's the director of Dragan Gilas today? How is it possible that today these people are the leaders of the protest against "Rio Tint" and the fictional topics and the Law amending the Expropriation Act, because expropriation was not even a topic when it comes to 12 villages around Loznica, or the question of "Rio Tint"? How is it that the integration of these topics suddenly took place at the head of the Rio Tinta protest, while certain NGOs are receiving huge funds from some funds to defend a theme called clean air, land and climate? We are coming into a situation where some of the prescribed agendas that some once used in some countries, which are referred to by certain people in the security sector as hybrid activities, are now becoming part of the platforms that are being defended every weekend under the password of environmental protection and environmental protection and defending citizens to live a normal life, and not only that, stop traffic with international traffic, which is an entirely anti-constitutional right, i.e. the violation of the laws of all people who are the organizers of that. Somewhere in other countries, developed economies, this would be solved in a completely different way. Obviously I think it's a good decision and President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that citizens should see the truth, they should see the truth of those who lead these protests, who manipulate people, because you know, we all want our children, of course, and the clean environment and economic growth and development, and in general the part that concerns, as they say, environmentalism, we want to make certain decisions in the future that we want to live and in what way. This participation of citizens through our own, we have had here laws on referendums, shows, in fact, that the government and Alexander Vukic's wish to make greater participation in many important decisions in the future, as well as in decisions when it comes to the environment and projects of strategic importance at all. But as much as Serbia has done in this area, no one wants to talk about it. No one wants to say that Serbia has taken an ecological place when it comes to the very budget of the Republic of Serbia, that it is 24 billion, I have already said, with this rebalancing this year, invested for many strategic projects, when it comes to 50 local self-government, eight solid waste collection stations. That's what next year is supposed to be 36 billion dinars. Almost 86% of the budget has been increased in this area, when we are talking about environmental and environmental standards in general. I think it's of great importance that we send a message from here to all citizens that this government really thinks about this topic every day and that it really works on it in all the local self-governments, but the results we're achieving are just showing those who measure these results. When you enter and see official statistics, then you'll really see how much progress we've made in this area. Manipulations and lies that try to place certain centres through certain media simply need to show citizens that all of this is not done, that all of this doesn't exist and that all of this needs to be done differently. Well, if, for example, the gentlemen came to manage Serbia, then only a billion dinars would have, if you remember the Clean Serbia project, where we had the printing of flyers, napkins, various glues, and it would actually be a money laundering system, and nothing would essentially be done. Serbia's day is full of praise. The recognition for this is the opening of Cluster 4 on Monday, after two years of impasse when it comes to the opening of chapters, due to a change in methodology and ultimately to Serbia's progress. I think that we also showed this to all the citizens who were perhaps in a particular kind of question and self-criticity by yesterday, who wanted to ask themselves questions -- and what in the future if these projects were being realized, we simply raised public awareness and people's awareness that, after all, they would decide on it in certain kinds of referendums, whether they wanted to live in the future, whether they wanted to be in line with new technologies, in step with developed countries, or whether they wanted to slow it down in certain ways, or step by step to change these projects in a certain way, and that they might want to go back to the past, to be led by those who led to 2012 by the state in a way that the economy was in the collapse itself, and that the protection of the environment could not even be discussed, and let alone the clean air, let alone that we had clean water or that we had a clean country, or that we had a clean country, that they said -- the country needs to talk about the country in terms of land. It's just, all those projects they had a chance to do didn't work. Now they've charged all of this, what they've done back then, in one of the most monstrous ways, by manipulating people, by playing with their deepest feelings, by just having questions, about survival and the question of their health, and that's what I think we and the citizens should talk about. We need to tell them and answer every question they don't understand. This is what Aleksandar Vukic showed in the Upper Weeks, that we should have patience, as he had more than two hours of patience to talk and to answer questions that may not be a direct topic at all, but simply to work with them in that part to make all those topics that are trying through media campaigns to undermine all that work and progress Serbia has achieved so far. In voting day, we invite all MPs to support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11357	Thank you. Since we no longer have a registered president or representative of the parliamentary groups, we will move on to the list of members of the peoples who have been declared. Before that, one notice. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11358	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, I will talk today about these laws but from the corner mentioned by my colleague Arsic, the patents, and those patents that took place after 2000, but not then, in 2000, but after that October 5th that happened. Protests are an important instrument, but it can be used and abused. We supported with all our heart the protests, those protests of citizens who were after 5 October 2000, protests of workers, protests of those who had lost their income thanks to irresponsible politics, thanks to a policy which, unfortunately, had then destroyed the economy of this country. These protests were the power and response of an ordinary man, a man who built his life into what he believed, and believed in that economy, believed in his country. Those who ran that irresponsible policy destroyed that economy and that faith. This led to, say, workers in my neighborhood, in Novi Pazar, having such protests as to result in cutting their fingers off from the hands they had to eat, in order to exercise their rights. That's when those workers nailed nails in their hands to get their rights. That's when these workers strike hunger for months, so they can exercise their rights. That and that policy, unfortunately, was deaf to their rights. All the things they've been creating for decades, that politics has been destroying. This policy has led to over 50,000 workers, which means over 50,000 and more families, left without existence, on the edge, and that policy, those workers then considered hostile to themselves and to their country and according to what they invested their lives and heritage in for their children. In 2010, this policy led to the state turning against its citizens. In 2010, this policy sent the gendarmes to my city, Novi Pazar, to deal with the citizens of the city. In 2016, this policy tried to pressure this government to do the same. In 2016, this policy led an orchestrated act against the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the rickety of academic Zukorlic, for what was the right of citizens, it was a building for Islamic studies, and that policy was then stopped by someone who had real legitimacy and legality, and we as people who were responsible and according to our lighthouse are said - who is not grateful to people, is not grateful to the Creator either. We'll always remember that. What does that mean? In 2016, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, said - would you like me to send a gendarme to Novi Pazar and have Zukorlic put his people together there, so we have our heads dead? Now, that's a responsible policy. Such a policy has stopped all those hohstapplers, all those calculators in politics who wanted to abuse and join forces with those who destroyed this country to carry out all the evil that has brought to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, destroying its economy. Today we have a situation to gather citizens, but not to protest, but to look forward to new projects. The Sandzak citizens are looking forward to this pipeline, they have waited very long and we have worked very hard on it, together with the majority partners, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the President of the Republic of Serbia, and that is something that is the legate of this policy. Citizens will gather to support and look forward to the pipeline project, to looking forward to all other projects that will follow, and to the railway project and project of the scientific and technological park and to any other project that gives them faith and hope and security that their children, that their future of generation will be in this country, that their children will not have to, as after 2000, go to EU countries to be considered third-class people there, that they would have to do the most difficult jobs and lose their dignity, their humanity and their honor, but in their own country, they will be able to build a better future in their city and enjoy the benefits of what means responsible and real policy. Such a policy is what is the way of justice, the way of reconciliation and the way that we should all go together to do much more for our children. I note that we had similar situations when the airport was being built, or the highway, and they were protesting, and today we all enjoy these benefites, all of us enjoying, especially those who come from far more distant parts, seeing how much it means to us every time we get here or to get out of here, we see how much it means to us to be safer, safer, safer, and how much it means to us and to the economy of the neighborhood we come from. Therefore, the Justice and Reconciliation Party supports all these bill proposals and is looking forward to new projects, but it is also looking forward to that pipeline and all that is planned to be realised as soon as possible and then to bring together the people and pay due respect to those who have led to the realization of these projects and to benefit the economy and the common man, so that we all have the opportunity to develop together what is called existence, what is called normal life without any manipulative, political or criminal-Oligarchical projections, interests and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11359	Thank you, Professor. Fehratovich. The word has the honourable MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica due to mentioning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Fehratovich, I must say you're right about everything. That's right. The colored revolution, which took place on October 5, 2000, brought about the following changes. Our workers were nailing their hand with nails. It was brought by the former regime – Dragan Gilas, Solak and the team. We had a Minister of Labour who only had a high school. It is true, sir, that workers cut off their fingers and extremities in protest which will lose their jobs and their existence and the existence of their family will be compromised. We had dozens and hundreds of protests, and here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in our squares, but unlike this now colored revolution, I could travel my country, travel. That right wasn't denied me, because every bridge, every time it belongs to me, like any other. Rome's former regimes need to remind these young people who have been abused to face the police, to face unsanitary people, to run in front of trucks and buses by risking their lives in error to do the right thing because they are only the means that those who claim that Serbia is not for sale, here I mean, first of all, Gilas and Šolak, come back to power and take back from those same children. They don't lead their own to protests, they lead others. It just shows what their mental circuits are like and how long they're ready to go. Manipulating a young man is the easiest. Let him be an adult, 18, 19 years old, no life experience. It's full of rebellion, it's eager to change, and it's very easy to manipulate. This is what these, Savo Manojlovic and the rest of the team count on, is that by manipulating these young people to achieve their political and ultimately their economic goals, which is to continue robbing and destroying Serbia, the Serbia we really love, and they only love their own pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11361	I thank the honourable MP, Veroljub Arsic. Replica, due to mentioning, Professor Fehratovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11362	Thank you. Dear colleague Arsic. I'd depend on what you said to remember a young generation. They really need to remember for the reasons that my generations and those who remembered what you were talking about, and it's been a long time since, and a lot of manipulators have been born, of course, along with those who have remained the same mentors. So it's very important as often as possible and as much as possible to remind these young people not to fall for cheap tricks, not to be hostages to those who are trying in every way to steal their future in this country. Among other things, another very important thing you said was this roadblock. It would be very important for these young people to realize that these roadblocks threaten not only their own, but the lives of others. Why am I saying this? As someone who comes from the interior very often, we have situations of various patients, let's say, who must be transported as soon as possible to some of the clinical centres or hospitals here in Belgrade or anywhere else. Anyone who stops traffic is a great opportunity to take someone's life, because if you're too late to transport someone who needs to get to the hospital as soon as possible, then you lose that life. In that case, it is for the conscience of anyone who stops traffic from carrying on their souls the lives of Serbian citizens who are at risk, for whom again this state has provided everything to be saved, to be given any help. Now, with their irresponsibleness, their consent to be part of one's political games has agreed to be the cause of someone's death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11363	I thank the esteemed Professor Fehratovic. We're moving on with the list. The next is the honourable MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11364	Believe it or not, and something in the EU should be good, so what the EU is doing is protecting intellectual property and it needs to be seen, because like any highly expressed capitalist economy, based on a hypertrophy right of private property, it protects and protects intellectual property as part of private property and as an economy based on innovative foundations, it has an interest to protect intellectual property well. We as a people of very talented people have that interest, so these measures are good. They're good, first of all, because they give our pharmaceutical companies a better position on the market. However, not everything in the EU is good and our society is deeply divided by conflicts over those things that we have to do, harmonising with the EU because of the policy "The EU has no alternative", which the SNS is doing today, even though it does not call it. But, in order not only to criticise, we from the National Network have a proposal that something that lawyer Goran Petronijevic suggested, and something similar we did at yesterday's session when we decided that the regulation of the accounting area of public sector employees should be moved in a few years, that what the EU requires in the area of family law and family relations and justice, we simply condition one clause that we will put at the end of any such contract, that it will be applied when Serbia joins the EU. I think it is the best way to heal the wounds and not be divided by unnecessary conflicts imposed on us by the EU. This law also deals with the area of the pharmaceutical industry, and this in the shadow of the "courage of hysteria" and the "courage of wave" that is happening in both the EU and the world, including us, should say that the protection of intellectual property and in the area of the pharmaceutical industry must mean that all are treated equally with such measures. However, we have a problem that "Faziers" contracts, which we probably signed too, because the vaccines we get from "Faziers" are not donations, they are paid by budget, i.e. The money of our citizens, and "Fiser" requires all the states that sign contracts with them to be non-transparent and that even governments should not even allow public debates on these contracts in public, we should see these contracts on the understanding of whether we have accepted what Brazil, Colombia, Bolivia, has accepted, for example, that in the event that "Faser" in the process of delivering their vaccines, and perhaps of supplementing some of these vaccines violates intellectual property, ie. Steal, steal intellectual property. In that case, it does not answer "Fiser", but corresponds to the state that signed the contract with it. So if that's true, that's why we should seriously consider whether we should work with such a corporation. Also, in light of this "courage of hysteria", we need to see that the idea of Kovid passes is an idea that discriminates against our citizens. I, unlike many of the opposition that the SNS attacked because of the rally in Arena when several tens of thousands of people were without the various means required by a number of regulations to protect against the spread of the epidemic, do not condemn it. I think that the SNS as the most massive party that has the best data on what's really going on in society and on this epidemic knows very well that all these measures are actually extorted and unrealistic and that they should not be respected at all. So, in that sense, I would like to invite you to let everything you've allowed yourself in the Arena at your meeting, allow all of us not to have to be the victims of these "ausview passes" and Kovid passes, but to help our hospitality and people who are damaged because of getting on their feet, not destroying them because we have to suffer pressures from some centres of the pharmaceutical mafia. The second thing that also appears in Europe in the "wrong check" is the idea of mandatory vaccinations. It's pointless for the simple reason that it can be solved in a simple way. So, the spread of the epidemic, this epidemic, and those who are "for" covid measures and those who are "against", and they are professional, do not deny the fact that they do not carry high mortality directly. It carries the mortality that indirectly occurs amid the collapse of the health system due to the great pressure of all those who are infected. But if it's so dangerous, it's just amazing that we have an entire private sector of medical practice that's out of the way of the system. So, if the state were willing to call private doctors to get their systems into the curvature system, the pressure on health would be lower, they would prevent the shooting of the health system, and all the money we give to Western corporations like "Fiser", "Astrace", "Modern", and the rest could be directed and compensated for what they're going to do in covid systems. It's a good proposal and it's a proposal that puts us in a position to bring down another tension in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11365	Thank you. Next on the list, honourable MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those who attack the SNS for an event that was in the Arena are not attacking her because of the bastards, far from it. Do you know how much they care about public health, the health system, our healthcare workers, you know how much they care about Serbian citizens? Not at all. The reason they attack this event that was in Arena is because they can't even gather half of the people who attended the celebration of SNS's birthday in their wildest dreams. This is why they allegedly care about the public health and health of our citizens, because if they were really worried they wouldn't kick in the pots and thus give support to our healthcare workers and not to list further what they were doing about the covids, vaccines, etc. I don't want to get into this controversy, I can't agree with much of what Mr. Glisic said about the birds. Obviously, there are some things we'll never agree on, but it's his right. We have here an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia. I agree that symbolic economic activity and trade exchange is between the Republic of Serbia and Mongolia. The goal of a law like this is to increase even that symbolism. We need to know that Mongolia is a very friendly country to us, that a country that has not recognised the self-proclaimed independence of our southern province and that with such countries we need to create as close relations as possible, not only in the area of economy, but in other areas, in culture and in all possible forms of cooperation in art. As for the guarantee for the public company "Srbigas", we now have one situation that separates us from the former regime. Today, we are agreeing to the "Serbiagas" task aimed at expanding its capacities, expanding its network, increasing the number of users, thus contributing to the quality of life of our citizens and helping local self-governments to bring in relevant investors to increase the employment of these same citizens. In such a situation where Serbia has certain business activities, when it has the potential to endure a crisis like this caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic, there must always be a story and a very ugly idea of how some new standards should be established in Serbia that are not applied anywhere in the world. In my presentation, as rapporteur of the Committee on Economy, I spoke about the patent law, and I will return to that famous patent part that refers to the colored revolutions that began in Serbia on 5 October 2000. To remind the citizens again - what a colored revolution it is. The colourful revolution is a violent form of change in power. A violent form, a non-democratic one, and it was always an excuse that the state in which the revolution was conducted was not up to democratic standards, so the revolution happened. It is always forgotten that something is said until the end that this colored revolution has always been funded by foreign countries or certain multinational companies, and that the goal of this colourful revolution was not to introduce democracy in the country, to improve the quality of life of citizens of the country, but exclusively to some political, military or economic interest. I will remind citizens that from about ten days ago, a colored revolution has been going on again in Serbia, and yet it has the same goal to take over power in a violent way in the Republic of Serbia. Whatever you do, however you treat certain problems, you will always have one structure in society that will say that something is wrong, that whatever you do is wrong. It will always be organised from the same political centres from which representatives of the former regime come. If I were right, we wouldn't go far in history like October 5, 2000, just a few years back. Were there mass protests in Belgrade over "Beograda na Voda"? They did. They were led by these ducks. They've blocked our streets, our squares. We've been holding on for days. What was the goal? To prevent the construction of “Biograda on water”. What's the reason for this? Apparently by them, it violates the architectural continent, and they don't know how to explain what, the urban appearance, etc. As the "Belgrade on Water" project moved away, all their protests showed vanity and not only in vain, but also madness, which was maintained at all. But it is only one example of how Serbia should be braked in its development. The Sava port, the Sava part, whatever you call it, I'm not from Belgrade, so if I'm wrong, let the Belgraders don't mind me, it was really a mockery, a mockery you shouldn't have gone through when the night came. Today is one of the most beautiful parts in the world, one of Serbia's most beautiful parts in urban terms, but it shouldn't have happened, because the government in which Solak, Gilas and the rest of the team should not be successful, it shouldn't last long, it shouldn't work for the citizens. That was why the "Belgrade on Water" project was under attack. They cared about both the urban continents and the artistic impression and the old appearance of the city of Belgrade. We saw how they did this boulevard here. They didn't care about the urban continent at the time. How much did they fit in when they built a bridge on Ada? Just to ask a question -- that bridge cost 600m euros, a little bit more, did anyone protest what that bridge was building? It's nobody. He needed a bridge to Belgrade. Was he supposed to be that expensive? It's not. Was it better to make three bridges with that money? Yeah, but no one was stopping them from making it. Shall we take another example? Remember the Moravia Corridor and an entire epic, my people, about one oak, to stop the construction of the highway for a single oak? To stop the country's progress because of a tree. As old as that oak is, it's not worth more than the life of a single citizen of ours. It is not more valuable that one of our only citizens does not pack bags and leave Serbia, but it was a reason to organise protests, barricades, to stop construction, to stop Serbia's progress. If you look, you also have protests in Zrenjanin for "Linglong". Madam Minister, you're from the economy. As far as I know, we have two industries dealing with the production of car tyres. One is in Pirot, "Tiger", or "Mischelin" now. The second is in Kruševec “The Last”. Is there anything missing from these people in Pirot and Krushevec? I haven't noticed that they're anything different from us, that they're more sick, that they're more guilty, that they're straight or whatever. Be careful, when it comes to the project "Tiger" it was not done during the privatisation of the former regime, but during the time of the privatisation minister being today's governor, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic and the factory are working. Trajal was during the former regime, so the privatisation contract was broken, and the workers were expelled into the street, and again this government returned them to factories, found a strategic partner who bought the factory. Now that they've seen that there's going to be a third factory in Zrenjanin and there's going to be a few hundred or thousands of people working again, I don't really know, there's going to be protests again, and it has nothing to do with environmental protection, or environmental science. It has to do with the results. It takes a reason to reach the goal, or reason, which is a shift from the power of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. And it's nothing else. Now you can imagine what is in the minds of these people, when they risk our young people being left without a job, leaving the state, that those who can't, because of the years, our older citizens, perform suicides, like these workers from the beginning of the change in Serbia, who brought October 5th, knocked themselves in the hand, cut off their fingers and so on, there were also those who strike in front of Parliament and hunger and thirst, and that I don't count what was here, for the fates of those people, they didn't care at all. They don't care about that. They are interested in naked power in Serbia. Why do they have support from certain circles abroad? Well, we touched that, too. The first is to finish the story that was started in BiH with Republika Srpska. We need Dayton 2. To achieve Dayton 2, it is necessary for Serbia to agree. The government will not agree to anything that would endanger the Serb people in Republika Srpska and BiH, respecting BiH's territorial integrity. Well, that's why it's necessary to take down Alexander Vukic. Let's get back to the question of our southern province. Kosovo authorities need chairs in the United Nations, have a dysfunctional state, have independence with which they can't do anything. In order for the project to be completed, the Republic of Serbia must agree to such a thing. And while Alexander Vukic and SNS are in power, nothing will be brought back to harm the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people. And then we have these barricades. Now let's take a look at those who, I believe, have those who honestly think that environmental, environmental, and so on are threatened, to ask them – do you know who you are in these protests with? Do you have a play? Do you have any idea that you're at a protest with people who've been threatening to throw her in the Sava to cool her down or how she's gonna get beat up because she wants to rush home to watch Pink TV? I don't want to talk about all the insults this lady's had. What are you going to do with people like that? So if you really are to protect the environment, eliminate them from there. To what end did they come here? Do you agree with them what they do? Do they really think well of you and everyone else in Serbia when they treat our elderly and helpless citizens like this? Would we have come to the truth about what Savo Manojlović, who he leads to, why, why are they taking our citizens to the streets? We're talking about the Expropriation Act, all right. We're talking about the referendum law. Now, be careful, because you're looking for a confirmation of the identification of citizens who are raising some questions on which we should finally come up with a referendum, it's not good. Only in this term were several initiatives to pass laws where it was a civil initiative. And they formally provided a sufficient number of signatures. When we handed over those signatures to be checked by the competent state authorities, more than 65% of those signatures were wrong. So what's the point? Well, I guess the goal is to get through the so-called. People's initiatives abuse the referendum rights of citizens and nothing else, so that some political issue for which the assessors who pay Sava Manojlovic will be alive. It's nothing else. That's all. So the only goal they have is to, and even because of those, to say the occasion, maintain a latent tension in society. Oh, he's got a lot of tension for the next one. They ask the question – where are the police? The police want to see it in their protests for two reasons, the first one is that they may portray the police as a national and it is a national, but it is primarily there to protect every citizen, its security, the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, constitutional order and law. And you, when you close the international highway, the police can't do anything but write you a report, because you have no right to do that. But they want to approach, to dick cops with flowers, etc. Because here, he wants to present to the Serbian citizens one next episode, that there's the police agree with them, because they don't give God the right, so he doesn't react. That's one reason. Another reason is that if it doesn't work, the same police are provoking and attacking the moment the police are due to apply the law of the intended means of coercion and force. At that moment, we will be a non-democratic regime. And the police are coming out of their power from that moment on. This Von Kramon and the European Parliament from Slovenia, Tanja Fajon, will build on how in Serbia a non-democratic regime that does not allow citizens to protest, which does not allow citizens to express their political views and opinions and will not deal with the fact that the state authorities' reaction has been extorted, exclusively in the protection of life and the health of citizens, protection of property and ultimately constitutional order and law. That's not what they're gonna do. Now, if I know how intelligent Dragan Gilas is with his machine brain, Solak, Savo Manojlović, Vuk Jeremic, that Ponos, I say my people don't know how to make sense of it. They're not nearly that intelligent, they don't know chess to play beyond two moves. So that's what someone's got to teach them. Someone who knows, who is doing this, who organized the 5th of October 2000 here, someone who organized the Color Revolution in Libya, someone who organized the Colored Revolution in Ukraine, not to list other countries, Armenia. Well, he's teaching them here, too. They abuse the energy our young citizens have. Their desire for a normal life, which I didn't have because of that former regime, because they stole 12 years of my life, and sanctions 10, that's 22 years of life. And the best. I totally understand these young people. We had a situation yesterday with this actor, artist, debtor, I think he owes Gilas two million dinars, who took his colleagues to the Adriatic Valley. My fellow actors were surprised, I guess for the first time they saw the field, better ever than never, how wonderful nature is, how beautiful everything is. Yes, it really is. I invite them to come to the end of where I'm from. My origins are from the municipality of Golubac, a mother from Klenj, it is a village near the Pek River, to see nature there, to see the fields there, to see the villages of Klenje, Mrčvac, Dušmanić, Zelenik, Vukovic, Miljevic, Šuvajić, Branjevo. Everything's nice, nature's nice. There's only one thing missing, people. They fled during the former regime, anyone who could escape from Serbia then, even Ju-Es style, fled Smederev as Gilas, Solak and others led Serbia. Well, let me ask them, these same artists, come on, tell me, what do I do to get these people back here? What can I offer them? What can I give them? I grew up with them. I know when they left. Some during sanctions, but far more during the former regime. I hear now and again that my fellow Firefighters are upset. They say they'll close our mines. That's what Gilas and Solak want, that's what Sava Manojlovic wants, they'll shut down our mines, shut down the thermal power plants. What are we gonna do? I can only tell them, if that's the purpose of their protests and barricades, I'll be with my schoolmates, with my neighbors, with their children, because there can be no excuse for the violence they're committing and terror over all of us, protecting the environment. I agree, no one has the right at any time to endanger the environment, but no one has the right to prevent and stop the economic progress of the Republic of Serbia. No one has the right to prevent people living here from getting the life of a decent man, and no one has the right to fight for our citizens who left Serbia during the former regime, from returning. Because you have no greater value, you can have roads, schools and hospitals, whatever you want if you don't have a man. The man is our greatest value, and Gilasu and Sollaku are the highest values of bills, dollars, euros, anything that gets to them just to make them better. You can imagine the mental set of the Sava Manojlovic, when he is ready, for what, $25,000 to harass all of Serbia, to allegedly show his concern for the people's initiative, referendum and "Rio Tinto". That's what we're talking about here, and that's the patents we're talking about today. I'm sorry we didn't really get a chance to talk about how much this law would improve the situation when it comes to our pharmaceutical industry. But the topics imposed on us by society indicate one truly serious need to tell the citizens of Serbia what is really happening, that they are trying to deceive them in an even more brutal way than it was in 2000. There's a lot of motive. In Serbia today, there is much more money than there was on October 5th 2000, and that motive drives them and gives them incredible power, which only shows what their mental circuits are and how much they really care about our citizens, our children, our environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11367	Thank you. First of all, one notice. You have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that by the appearance of the death of MP Milutin Mrkonjic, the case referred to in Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments, and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (8) and points 3 and 4. The Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Milutin Mrkonjic, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Thank you. The word has Vladan Glisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11368	I'll use the replica to explain my exposure, so maybe my colleague Arsic and I will agree on some things. When I mention a cove of wavery and a cove of hysteria, and I am against a cove of passes or whatever the people call them – a cove of ausavis and against mandatory vaccination, which thank God in our country has not been introduced and I hope they won't, I'm not an antivaxer. I did it for respecting the vaccine as a liquid of modern medical civilization, but what I'm up for and I think that many who haven't been vaccinated would have gone into the process, if they were to force more and actually represent our domestic vaccine. So, at this point, many people, when you say the anti-Vaxer lobby, don't really exist, because it's not some organized group, it's a lot of people who don't trust the World Health Organization either, or in the pharmaceutical industry, or as the people say -- the mafia pharmaco, or in many politicians who call for vaccination. To restore trust, we have to have some people we trust. I personally trust Doctor Dani Grujic, because I know her as a man and as a humanitarian worker and as an expert, and half of Serbia knows that she helped them and that she is a woman who would never compromise the health of her patients and people she talks to. It was vaccinated with the ‘Torlak’ vaccine, but when I received a call from the Institute of Batut to vaccinate, they do not mention the domestic vaccine anywhere. They mention "Fiser", "Astra Zenecu", "Modern", and I think it's the right thing to do, if we have to vaccinate and who wants to vaccinate, is to do it with a domestic vaccine. Why do I say that? People who are now like a bunch of profiteers, which are primarily Faiser-type corporations and all other Western corporations, earn huge money on these vaccines. Their primary interest is not human health and the health of the people, their interest is profit and who knows what they're willing to do to make a profit. They are friends with those who bombed us in 1999, who caused the biggest ecological disaster here, those who cooperate with them can be called the bloody green. They're not the green ones as authentic groups fighting. So in that sense, I think that the state's action to get more into the public with this "Torlak" vaccine and take that kind of responsibility by distancing these Western corporations would lead to more people being vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11369	I give the word to Veroljub Arsic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I must thank Mr. Glisic. After decades of collapse during the former regime, Serbia has a "Torlak" that is able to make a vaccine, so it should also be licensed in Serbia. Can we always understand that – Western vaccines, eastern vaccines, Chinese vaccines, etc. Be assured that citizens will always have different desires for different vaccines and we are willing to do so in a sense that we ensure that they receive what they want from these vaccines. The biggest problem, as much as you want to deny it, is this anti-vaxer lobby that doesn't have a lot of people behind it, but it's very serious. By way of social networks, they scare our citizens. You know what, I saw one situation in one of the Belgrade covid hospitals when the reporter approaches the patient and asks him – how is he? He says, "Okay." He asks him, is he vaccinated? You know what suits him? It's my right not to receive the vaccine. I agree, we all have rights, it's important how we use rights and whose rights we threaten and whose lives we endanger. This is the difference between the responsible and those who claim to have only the right, because the right withdraws the obligation, and it implies responsibility. That's the difference between us and those of the former regime. They had the right to change laws, to ruin Serbia, but they showed that they had no responsibility for their citizens, so now they're trying to get back on the street again, and I'm sure on April 3rd they're finally going to travel to political history, that we're no longer dealing with these thieves here, but they're going to be dealt with by judicial, prosecutorial authorities, and I'm going to make them a welcome here, because I know they'll be my fellow citizens, for at least one 15 years, in a settlement near the Fireman, and it's called Zabela.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11371	Thank you. Minister Atanaskovic, comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11372	I will report to Ambassador Glisic and to all of you, since, let me say, I'm one of those who's been lying over a bird for 20 days in a hospital, in an intensive hospital, and I barely survived, thanks to that vaccine. I received a Chinese vaccine to tell you, so it's not three vaccines. I wasn't even thinking about which one to take, and then there was this vaccine. The important thing is, as I was raised, I should, as Mr. Arsic says, protect myself, but also others in my environment. I think that vaccine saved my life. Looking at those medical workers, those people on the respirators around you, whose every breath is life, I don't think we'd be talking about whether or not we should talk about it today. I think you should always. Whether or not we're gonna take ours, but I don't think we have any quantity yet, and it's great that Torlak has worked again and what he's gonna do and we're doing to get as much equipment as possible and they can meet all our needs. You need to be aware of the responsibility and the pain these medical workers have that they don't see their children every day. That should be understood, and I really, these antivaxers, or whatever you call them, it doesn't matter, what you say, everyone has the right to receive or not receive, but it doesn't need to stretch it across the streets and cause other riots and other people to force it. They simply need to be given perhaps an assignment to come by for an hour to watch these people struggle for air and life. I think we'd think completely differently. It's an honor to those kids and to those doctors and to all the medical staff who's fighting, here and today, because we don't even know what they're wearing tomorrow and whether there's going to be worse situations, so it's mine to tell you that you must be vaccinated, and the people need to understand that, that's what we're injecting our children. Well, the kids get vaccinated as soon as they're born, so we don't ask whose vaccine it is or what it is or what it is or what it is, and now we're all in trouble whether we're going to vaccinate or not. I'm 60 years old, so I have to worry about my life, and I don't care about my grandchild. Guys, the most important thing is to protect yourself, because whoever thinks about their lives, I watched it live, and I don't want anyone to get there. So, you need to listen to doctors, scientists, I'm a professional engineer, I don't know things about medicine, we talk openly, but we have to trust our experts who are here. If we don't trust lawyers, economists, doctors, so wait, what are we supposed to do? I trust my doctors have finished their colleges for it, they're all authorized, and when they say you need to take the vaccine, we need to treat ourselves, we have a whole team. Now, there are all sorts of different opinions, they start conspiracy theories, but that's all the work of ours, let's say some techniques, that today everything we don't think is good in this government that we should do it on the streets to get out and there's some kind of traffic going on and against some attacks. People's health is still the most important thing. Serbia must protect its people, because there are few of us, and if we allow others to rule us and tell us whether we should be treated or not, then we are done. I think we need to be aware, that we need to save every life, and God forbid it has this way with the president looking at how to help young married couples and about the housing and child support, I think it's a big shift to raise our standard of living and to have as many children as possible. God forbid next year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11373	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for her comment. Let's move on with the list. The next in line, SDPS representatives, the prominent MP Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11374	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Atanaskovic and fellow Members of the People, although I consider the patent law as important as the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Mongolia, I will talk about them later on, and at the beginning of my address, I would like to pay particular attention to the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia on "Srbigas". The reason for this task is to obtain investment funds in the area of strengthening pipeline capacity, and this is particularly important for me as a national MP from the Prijepolje municipality, which will provide something that is necessary for citizens and the economy of Prepolje, as well as for the entire Zlatibor County for further development, which is precisely the construction of the pipeline and the implementation of further gasification. This project is part of an initiative to strengthen the transport capacity of pipelines, which, of course, contributes to the construction of new pipelines. In order to create conditions for the use of gas itself, it is necessary to work on further gasification throughout Serbia. It is my pleasure that just now Prepolje and the Zlatibor County are the first in a series of projects planned to boost the transport capacity of gas pipelines in Serbia and to invest 40 million in this goal, and that these funds will be used to build pipelines on the territory of the Zlatibor district. Namely, it is the construction of a route of two independent pipelines that will address the issue of gasification of the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoš and the town of Novi Pazar, the municipality of Tutin and Sjenica. This investment of gas pipeline construction is a significant boost to the efforts of the municipality of Prepolje, as well as the entire region to attract investors. I must say that our municipality has made a great effort to attract investors, to create a better business climate and increase the competitiveness of the municipality, but representatives of the municipality have always come across a request from investors who could not meet, which is access to gas infrastructure. During your first visit to the municipality of Prepolje, you had the opportunity to get acquainted with the economic potential and to get to know some of the most successful businessmen and to hear from them what problems they are facing, and certainly there is a lack of gas infrastructure as well as access to highway construction and the like. The economy of our region notes the surplus, and you mentioned it in your address, and the Zlatibor County is one of the few that records the surplus in trade exchange, but despite the significant work of local self-government and the Republic to bring investors to work further to raise the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, further development and improvement of tourism, as one of the most significant sources of income in the region. It is particularly important to work to attract new investors for what it is necessary to work on the gasification of the Zlatibor County. Attracting investors and developing businesses are certainly the key reasons why such an investment is necessary, as I said to Prepolje and the region, but these are not the only conditions. Strong economy and the development of entrepreneurship represent a base on which we can build a better life for all citizens, for example, the possibility of greater publishing and investment for schools, culture and the preservation of material and immaterial monuments that adorn the Prepolje. In addition to attracting investors, there are even more significant benefits than this investment and the construction of the pipeline. Serbia has just been granted the opening of a fourth EU negotiating cluster, which is a cluster that unites chapters related to transport, energy, trans-European networks and environmental protection and climate change. Serbia has taken significant steps in the area of environmental regulation and we have circled laws in the field of mining and energy and adopted a new Law on environmental protection. When we talk about protecting the environment as it should be the focus of work, both today and in the future, it should be noted that natural gas is cheap and environmentally acceptable fuel today when we live in a period of growing social awareness, the impact that fossil fuels have on the health of citizens but also the environment and one of the fastest and most efficient ways to reduce air pollution especially in cities, because the introduction of gas as a significant energy is exactly what it represents. As for the municipality of Prepolje and neighbouring local heat environments, they mostly use coal and lube as energy. We are all aware of how much the use of these energy sources is an ecologically devastating solution to long paths and that these are increasingly environmentally unacceptable fuels. This led to a number of local self-governments that were able to move on to natural gas as a primary energy and, of course, not only in Serbia, it is a good practice across Europe. I hope that the construction and completion of this investment will open up a chance to modernise the remaining mule facilities, so that our fellow citizens can breathe cleaner air. Gasification will create conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all districts. In addition to the mentioned industrial application, individual consumers will also be allowed to join the distribution system. This will allow natural gas to be used for individual consumers in the future. This may mean reducing pollution in individual sheds using solid fuels, and unfortunately, we are witnessing an increasingly poor quality of energy. The municipality of Prepolje and the region have significant potential and access to natural gas, and this is a significant prerequisite for achieving full economic potential. That is why I support this bill, as well as the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party that I belong to. I would briefly refer to the other two points that we are discussing today. Although the geographical distance and other objective factors of trade exchange with Mongolia are not great, agreements on trade economic co-operation such as this witness on a continuous policy aimed at creating a partnership around the world, which create new potential markets for our entrepreneurs. These agreements form the basis for long-term co-operation. In this case, it provides for the establishment of a bilateral joint commission on trade and economic co-operation to work towards removing potential barriers to trade and economic co-operation. For the end, it is necessary to support amendments to the patent law. For citizens, these changes will have particular importance in the area of production and price, etc. generic medicines, the reform of domestic drug manufacturers puts them in an equal position with other drug manufacturers who have certificates of additional protection. The timely entry of generic medicines into the Republic of Serbia for citizens means reducing the price of drugs through an increase in competition and this contributes to increasing the sustainability of the national health care system, and unfortunately because of the pandemic of the Corona virus we are just witnessing how important it is for a country to have a functional health care system. In light of all this, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's voting day will support all laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11375	I thank the distinguished representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliament Club, Semi Ćosovic. The comment has a distinguished Minister Angelka Atanaskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11376	I thank Parliamentarian Cosovic. I just want to say that I don't mind the order of your interpretations and arguments as far as the law is concerned, because I think that all three laws, no matter what they're not from our ministry, are very important for the economy and in general for Serbia. So, they directly and directly affect the progress of the economy, and I'm glad that most of the parties are to adopt these laws today. What I realized and when I was downstairs visiting you, just building highways and pipelines are a prerequisite for any investment, which you yourself have found. Simply, every investor wants to have the best and basic conditions, and the pipeline is primarily for environmental protection. So, Serbia is now really working full steam to make the minority in every part of Serbia that matters to both us and the president to try to bring investors from the south to the north, means to be really employed, to have our people work here and to leave the children there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11377	I thank the Minister of Industry. We're continuing with a list of speakers. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11378	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is one of the points of the agenda and the agreement on strengthening the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia under the responsibility of "Srbigas", so it is a development project. When we say credit, most of us turn on a red light. However, when we talk about infrastructure project responsibilities and in this case gasification, it is clear that these are loans that will be paid in the long term. Before I move on to the topic, it is important to say that the whole world is concerned about the following issues – how to replace existing energy reserves that are at an end, then how to preserve the sources and streams of drinking water for future generations and how to preserve the human natural environment and prevent cataclysms that can be caused by climate change. All these issues are influenced by the use of natural gas, which is primarily a clean source of energy and does not pollute the environment, is easily used and is practical unlike other fossil energys. Total world natural gas reserves currently investigated can satisfy current global consumption over the next 130 to 150 years, and with its consumption and use should be very rational. Natural gas is rightly considered the energy of the future. The temporary solution to the transition to green energy and today makes a significant contribution to the balance of the electricity system. At the time of the current global crisis, the last of which is energy in a series, which is already very negatively affecting many sovereign states, has shown how important it is that Serbia is energy independent. Thanks to our exceptional relations with the Russian Federation, Serbia has been able to supply gas at the same unchanged prices during the winter, although the world's gas prices have increased multiple times. A great credit to this belongs to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the president of Serbia, but also to our distinguished counterpart from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the director of "Serbia" Dusan Bajatovic. Russia and Serbia have been working for many years to develop transit infrastructure. In addition to this co-operation with Russia, Serbia wants to connect interconnectors with all neighbouring countries in the region. Gasification is our strategic project that would, in addition to environmental protection, primarily create conditions for attracting foreign investors, which without resolving the issue of safe gas supply almost impossible in the modern world. At a recent expert conference "How to conduct a sustainable transition in the gas sector", our colleague Dusan Bajatovic said, among other things, that natural gas plays a very important role in energy transition, as in the decarbonisation process it plays a role in the transition energy and that gas will certainly be a transit fuel. I would also refer to building a interconnection between Nis and Dimitrovgrad, which is a pipeline connecting Nis, Dimitrovgrad and Sofia. This project is particularly important because it opens up the possibility of gas supply coming from Azerbaijan and for a whole new pipeline, so-called. The eastern Mediterranean that comes from Israel. Nis would become a centre in this way, especially when we consider the possibility of building a pipeline towards Pristina, Montenegro, as well as Northern Macedonia. As someone who comes from Nis, I would like to emphasise the importance of this project, both for the citizens of my city and for all of Southeast Serbia. First of all, and at the beginning of Serbia's overall gasification project, we need to confirm an agreement on the agenda today in order to obtain one legal basis for the gasification of the Zlatibor County. Further gasification of the Zlatibor County will create conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all areas of the Zlatibor district, as well as the integration of industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system and significantly deploy the electricity system, but also create an opportunity to increase economic activity in the municipalities of this region. With all the benefits of this agreement in mind, the SPS parliamentary group will vote to adopt the same, as will the other two points my colleague Ugljesa Markovic will discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11379	I thank the MP Nina Pavicevic. Since Col. Milija Miletic doesn't have time, is a colleague of Ugljesa Markovic, who just entered the O.R., ready to give him a word? (Employed by Markovic: Yes. ) The word has a folk MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11380	I thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we often talk about innovations, ideas, new solutions to the already existing problems. However, many fear that someone will steal their idea, and for that reason they do not want to share it with others. What's interesting and what needs to be said is that intellectual property rights are not the creation of a modern age, but that the awareness of the extraordinary importance of copyright existed in the ancient world, although not in the legal frameworks that exist today. The importance of intellectual property, the more precise protection of copyright and related rights, as well as industrial property rights, is now far more important than ever before, especially when we have a global range of the Internet, and stealing certain types of intellectual property in this way is significantly facilitated. We can say that it represents the very core of economic development, business and competitiveness. Thanks to increasingly developed legislation today, patents, stamps, design, literary, scientific and artistic works can be protected. As today's agenda changes and additions to the patent law, the focus of my exposure will be on this kind of industrial property rights. The patent can be defined as a set of exclusive rights guaranteed by the inventor by the state, protecting its discovery from use, exploitation and sales by other natural and legal persons, and patenting the product is given a monopoly over this product in order to prevent any other party from using this right. The patents are now assigned to new machinery and industrial products, but a significant improvement in already existing food, medical and pharmaceutical products. The most significant amendments and additions to the patent law relate to the field of certificates on additional protection and protection of small patent inventions. In fact, the subject of small patent protection has been expanded, so that the small patent can protect the product, not just the solution relating to the construction of a product, as prescribed by the applicable law. In this way, the product spectrum is expanding, which can further encourage our national businesses to create new products, thereby also increasing the competitiveness of domestic and foreign operators. In business for several years, the drug market and medical resources in the Republic of Serbia are rapidly developing. What is important and what is intended to achieve these changes and additions to the law is to increase the competitiveness of domestic drug manufacturers on both domestic and foreign markets. In this way, drug manufacturers whose production takes place in our country will be in the same legal regime as EU producers, resulting in patients in Serbia having access to the necessary medicines at favourable prices. There was also a word earlier on about the vaccine that started to be produced in our country, so this is all going to contribute to this discussion you were having earlier. Every year, a large number of patent applications are filed worldwide. More than 180,000 patents were reported at the European Patent Office last year alone. By the number of patents reported, Americans, Germans and Chinese are ahead. When we talk about concrete areas of protection in 2020, the most important thing was innovation in the field of medicine and mirage, which is also logical if we are considering exactly the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. In addition to being our famous and unmatched scientist Nikola Tesla, we have a total of 308 patents registered in 27 countries on five continents, Serbia still has reason to be proud. One of our young scientists came up with a system for remote irrigation of parcels via SMS. Based on the research of another of our scientists, a revolutionary micro battery system has been developed today in almost all portable devices, and the third has been working on an innovative building system that saves both money and construction time, whose use contributes not only to energy efficiency, but also to a more environmentally-like, healthier and cheaper construction. Greater legal certainty, the promotion of creativity, the acceleration of technological development and the suppression of piracy are just some of the concrete benefits guaranteed by the legal protection of patents. Certainly, amendments and additions to the patent law are now in favour. In addition to working to improve and improve the quality of laws in many areas, our state leadership is also working to improve and maintain good relations with a large number of countries, including bilateral agreements, whether economic, social, military-political, trade or cultural co-operation. We have one such agreement on the agenda today, which is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on economic and trade co-operation. Mongolia is a state with which we do not have enough developed relations, but they are both traditionally good and friendly and is particularly important support for Mongolia on the road to the preservation of our territorial integrity and our southern province within the existing state borders. I think it is very important, when we talk about the international agreements that we have made with countries that have not recognised the false state of Kosovo, that we always point out and repeat it somehow, because it has indeed been difficult for Mongolia in particular to endure in this policy. Mongolia is a state we don't know much about and which is unjustly neglected. Her economy has recently recovered after a long period of stagnation. It is mostly agrarian, with traditional products, such as milk, meat and wool in the total GDP of agriculture, as well as industry, participates with an incomplete 30%. Despite the recovery and growth of the economy, which rests largely on service activities, somewhat more favourable prices of copper and gold at world level, a large number of people, as many as 36%, live in Mongolia just below the poverty line. At the same time, there are growing and social differences, as well as increasing gaps between the city and the village. There is plenty of room between the two countries to improve overall co-operation, with a special emphasis on strengthening economic relations, but also on agricultural, cultural, educational co-operation, because it is all in the interest of both countries. Taking into account all that these two laws apply, as well as the agreement relating to "Srbigas", MPs of the Socialist Party's Socialist Party Serbia will be declared affirmative in the day of voting, and all in the best interest of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11381	Thank you. The word is from MP Tihomir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11382	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, respected minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today we are holding a debate and will probably pass the Law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the banks "Intez" and "Rajfaisen", under the responsibility of JP "Srbijagas", and under the Treaty of Credit for the Strengthening Transport pipelines in Serbia. In particular, it is a 40m-euro loan to build distribution pipelines on the territory of the Zlatibor district and connect industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. It's a district of great potential for economic development, which lacks natural gas as energy. This is a capital investment for the pleasure area and the Zlatibor County. It shall also be built for Pryboy, Nova Varosh, Rutosha, Prijepolje, and Sjenica. This major investment is another proof of the strong support of President Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia in the pleasureous area. The support was proven by President Vukic's historic visit to Uzic in August of this year. The president then announced to a large number of Uzicans who welcomed him to invest in large capital projects that will strongly boost the development of Užica and contribute to the better life of Uzican in the next few years, hundreds of millions of euros. The construction of a bypass around Užica towards Baja's Garden is about to begin. It's an highway worth about 30m euros. We saw all days ago that a contract was signed with Chinese partners on the construction of a tunnel under the Kadinjaca, worth about 50m euros. The airport of Ponikva will be completed to obtain conditions for a new strong development of tourism in the pleasure area. In a new clinical centre, it will be the fifth clinical centre in Serbia, and in Užica the first and only one, about 80m euros will be invested in the next four years. The construction of a new kindergarten will be financed. The construction of the new and largest gas boiler room in Užica, worth about 5m euros, will be financed, making all public institutions and all residential buildings in Užica use gas as energy. These investments will largely contribute to the solution to the biggest problem Užizana, not enough of the good air quality that the Ubizen inhale. It should be noted that the government of the Republic of Serbia has already approved money to expand the regional dump in Uzic, that it is being speeded up by the Ministry of Environmental Protection to seek the best solution to build a plant for the processing of municipal waste at the dump. The government is ready to fund that facility. It's about an investment worth a few dozen million euros. This will address the issue of municipal waste disposal in a healthy, environmentally acceptable way, not only Užica, but also Cačka and seven other municipalities of Zlatibor and Moravik waste. Also, under the National Plan of the Republic of Serbia 2020-2025, a decision was made on the financing of a regional wastewater treatment plant for Užice, Požeg, Arlje, Kosjeric, perhaps Lucana. The project is worth over 70m euros. Taking into account all of these vital health projects of the Užičan people, when we remind ourselves that Užice, with the personal involvement of President Vukic and the financial support of the country of over six million euros, by building the technologically state-of-the-art drinking water processing plant two or three years ago, resolved the issue of regular supply of healthy drinking water, it is clear that the citizens of Užica will already, but especially in a few years, be leaders in Serbia when it comes to healthy water, land and air that Užice is the best example of successful and responsible policies by President Vukic regarding environmental protection. When the highway to Požega is completed next year, as soon as it continues immediately across the territory of Užica towards Sarajevo, conditions will be obtained for Užice to be one of many cities and municipalities where new investors, factories and new jobs will come in. So soon, Uzice will also be one of the best and most successful examples and evidence of President Vukic's successful and responsible policies in the area of economic development and re-industry of Serbia. They loved and assisted Užice in Uzicane and other Serbian rulers, but what President Vukic did for Užice and Uzicana in all of Serbia, will be written in large letters in the history of our city. Shouldn't be doubtful, the Uzicans will know about all this to thank both the president and the SNS for the 3 April elections next year. I believe that the largest number of citizens protesting the previous two Saturdays is sincerely interested in preserving healthy air, country and water in Serbia. We all want this and all of us with great care follow the information regarding the possible construction of the lithium mine in Serbia and the surrounding Loznica. But let's keep away from romantic stories about the mythical commitment of Serbs to the country, to our estates, to silence our dinar mentality and rationally, based on clear and true attitudes of the profession, science, to make a decision on the possible construction of this mine. First of all, we need to clearly recognise and reject the immoral attempts of certain opposition politicians, Đilas, Jeremic and Zelenovic, to abuse the legitimate interest and concern of the work of citizens related to the protection of the environment, to oppose these opposition politicians in their attempt, with financial assistance from foreign sponsors, to launch another colored revolution, when we know that none in the world has brought benefit to the citizens anywhere. I'm sure a huge number of Serbian citizens understand that. And those citizens who go to these protests understand that. The evidence is that Djilas and Jeremic are not allowed to appear there, and Zelenovic is experiencing fierce criticism from the protest organisers, which is too early to come out with new requirements for state leadership and thus exposes the real fundamental reason for their participation in the protests -- the launch of a colored resolution and the desire to come to power without the support of most Serbian citizens. Of course, it's not gonna happen. All of this is recognised by the majority of Serbia, which gives trust to Alexander Vukic and SNS. To be clear, no one normal and responsible for their descendants will support the construction of lithium in Serbia, if it brings with it the pollution of our Serbia's land and water. But let's not advance, before we get all relevant information, reject any possibility. Let science and profession do their part, do a serious and impartial analysis of existing lithium mines in the world, their real effects on the natural environment and human health. If the analysis shows that there are no environmental safety technologies, we will not, I believe and I am sure, no one in Serbia accepts the construction of a lithium mine in Serbia. But if in the world, especially in the most developed countries, eco-secure technological processes are in place, if it takes place on that basis and with the technology to be used in Serbia to build a mine in Germany, where green activists are very organized, if there is no air, land and water pollution, if, with such a mine in Serbia, the plants of lithium batteries and passenger cars that will be used, why would we be against it? We need to be for precisely our children and descendants and billions of euros a year that they will get and benefit from this job. I believe that this approach, although it is not popular today to think rationally about the possible construction of lithium mines in Serbia, is far more moral and honorable than to take big money from the sale of the land on which the mine is to be built, as some of Gilas' employees do, while in public playing environmentalists and Serbia's citizens' health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11383	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11384	The esteemed chairman, respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, is ahead of us today several extremely important topics, but I would like to put special attention, i.e. to the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intes and Raiffeisen Bank under the responsibility of "Serbiagas", and on the basis of a 40m-euro loan agreement. So, one of our country's strategic objectives is to ensure the effective, or energy security of the Republic of Serbia and in the previous period of state leadership, the president made a really great effort in this direction, in order, above all, to provide sufficient amounts of gas and to further expand the gas network in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And this bill, which is before us, is just another step towards this goal, because in this way the gas network is further expanding, specifically in the territory of the Zlatibor County, which is something more talked about by fellow Petkovic, so this is a very important topic that deserves absolute support from all of us. The very topic of energy, i.e. gas security is a topic that is current at global level, so both in Europe and in the world. I think that, that is, in the previous period, thanks to President Vukic, we have achieved exceptional results in the field of modernization, i.e. the expansion of the gas network, in the case of regular supply of sufficient quantities of gas and in the case of adequate, i.e. a very favourable price for our consumers, both citizens and the economy. Now you can see all the regularity of the policy that was led in the previous period where, despite the great pressures suffered by the president, but also the rest of the state leadership, we built a pipeline through Serbia, because only now do we see that it was the right thing to do because it provides us with sufficient and regular supplies. All of this when we add that recently, after meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the lowest price for gas for Serbia in Europe has been secured, then we can look at a whole picture of a truly successful gas policy run by our country. I really wouldn't be too long on this topic, because it's obvious that our country is going in a good direction when gas policy is, because it's simply a proper gas policy and all of these conditions that I've stated are a prerequisite for continuing the accelerated economic development of our country. I would take the opportunity to look back at some more of the current topics of the previous days that are of interest to our public, which many today and yesterday, many of my colleagues, have mentioned here. In my presentation, I will place the accent on the city I come from, on Loznica, because we are witnessing that the last months have been gentlemen of the opposition, and members of the former regime, then newly-roasted environmentalists, etc., full of the mouth of Loznica, and I am sure that up to a year or two ago which of them is and knew where Loznica is, let alone that he was coming. Now every two or three weeks, and more often, in Loznica, in the Adriatic. All that SNS is doing is in the interest of Serbian citizens. While on the other side of this political group, therefore the tycoon opposition, parts of the former regime continue to behave as they were when they were in power. All they do is manipulate the citizens for some of their personal interests to pull Serbia back, put it back where we've had a hard time pulling it out in the last nine years. I would like to remind you that in 2012, after the SNS took responsibility for Serbia's leadership after severe economic reforms, the fiscal consolidation measure, Serbia began the path of dynamic economic growth, foreign investment, factory opening, job creation, road construction, schools, hospitals, etc. In such circumstances, parts of the former regime, gathered around Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic, Zelenovic, and what I know to you, therefore in such circumstances, when citizens recognize all the regularity of this policy, when they support SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic, and in the absence of the programme by the mentioned gentlemen, they all become environmentalists by means of the list and are now religious environmentalists, for healthy Serbia, for a healthy Jadar, for a healthy Loznica, combatants against lithium, etc. Perhaps they could also believe in the sincerity of their intentions that the memory of citizens does not go a little further into the past. Why can citizens of Serbia and in particular now in the case I'm talking about, the citizens of Loznica and Jadra, not trust Gilas, Zelenovic, Jeremic and others? Because Loznica, Jadar, Podrinje, as well as the whole of Serbia, left devastated with decommissioned factories, with street workers, with destroyed infrastructure. Because they are now religious environmentalists, and in 2004 they brought to Serbia "Rio Tinto", they issued nine documents "Rio Tintu" from 2004 to 2012 and now suddenly became opponents of the same "Rio Tinta" they brought to Serbia. Up until two or three years ago, they praised the Jadar project, specifically Dragan Gilas. It's not hard to verify the truthfulness of both these and those of my colleagues who made this statement. You type on the Internet and you will find his statements two or three years ago where he praises the Jadar project as a development opportunity for Serbia, where he advocates that a battery factory should be opened next to the mine, that there will be batteries in mobile phones with the inscription "Made in Serbia", and now suddenly changes his mind, common sense, and tells all citizens that something is wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen, the people of the former regime who robbed Serbia, who put millions of euros in their pockets, are now fighting for environmentalism. They try to manipulate the citizens while, at the same time behind the backs of those same citizens, they continue to be rich again, again doing business with the same Rio Tint against whom they are to God in public. I will set a very current example at the level of all Serbia, especially for the Loznics. An example of Mark Blagojevic who the Lozniks know as an evil couple. Marko Blagojevic is a man who placed a lock on Viskoza, which left 10,000 workers in the Viskoza factory on the street. This business and business success, Mark Blagojevic, I felt on my skin because I am the child of one of the 10,000 workers that Blagojevic and his contractors left on the street. For this business success, Marko Blagojevic is rewarded by taking him as his assistant while serving as minister without portfolio in charge of the National Investment Plan. Furthermore, when Gilas becomes mayor of Belgrade, Blagojevic sets up director, it seems to me, the Investment and Apartment Agency in Belgrade, and now Blagojevic is employed by Gilas's firm, "Multicom". It should only be recalled that Blagojevic was involved with other associates or other team of Dragan Dilas in malfeasance during the reconstruction of boulevards, specifically for embezzlement of sixm euros. This same Marko Blagojevic today is one of the ringleaders so-called The ecological uprising against Rio Tinta, while manipulating, insinuates citizens, behind them 80 acres of forest and 2.6 hectares of the country sells the same "Rio Tintu" for 717,000 euros. So, 717,000 euros put it in his pocket while publicly declaring against Rio Tinta and leading the so-called. The ecological uprising. To the soul, if we look a little bit better and analyze the ecological activity of Marko Blagojevic, he's been pulling roots since 15 and over, when I mentioned, 10,000 Viskoz workers, so from the chemical industry, he might have wanted these people, no matter, to be out of work, to be on the street, but live in fresh and clean air. But I wouldn't go further into his intentions. I am a local patriot, but the fact is that the Lozniks, the Adriatics are decent people and good hosts. I am deeply convinced that it will not allow the sincere concern of the work of these people, hence the sincere concern about the potential impact of the Rio Tinto mine on the environment, to be abused by the political vultures I have already mentioned, Gilas, Zelenovic, etc. While I'm at Zelenovic's, a brief dyspression. I just want to correct one finding by counterpart Tihomir Petkovic, who said when Zelenovic was in Loznica, or Gornji Jadra, that he had an unpleasant experience. He didn't experience any discomfort, he was driven away. He's been evicted from Loznica. It's not Loznica far from Capca, the citizens know what and how Nebojsa Zelenovic was doing while he was mayor of Zapca. They also know of the fivem euros he was sentenced to, for purposeless spending of funds and many other activities. So, he didn't experience any discomfort, he was expelled from Loznica. On the other hand, the Loznicans, the Adriatic, trust their country, trust state institutions, above all, President Alexander Vukic. Why? First of all, because this neighborhood, which I mentioned, left the devastated, relived, gave him a chance to live, turned him into one place that young people see as decent for life, where young people want to stay, where they're going to go to big cities. I will remind you, only when it comes to Loznica, are two investors, the Mint and Adient factories, which will employ more than 2.5 thousand workers in full capacity. A hospital whose upgrade started 30 years ago was reconstructed, and Alexander Vukic was only finished. Construction of a football stadium according to UEFA4 standards is under way, worth more than 20m euros. Construction is under way of a fast traffic station, Ruma-Shabac, which will be bound further on the highway, pardon Shabac-Loznica, which will be bound on the Ruma-Shabac highway, that a 13km radius will be built around Loznica. These are the results, it's a way to gain trust and voter favor. So, honest, loyal, sacrificed, honest work. While the gentlemen mentioned are limiting, terrorizing Serbia's majority, decent Serbia, organising political protests that are primarily directed against Alexander Vukic, and under the cover of environmental concerns, Aleksandar Vukic visits Serbia, visits Gornji Jadar, visits Gornja Nedeljica, talks to citizens, talks to the people. He wants to hear on the spot what's holding them back, what's the problem, which is why they're worried about seeing how they can be solved. What is important is that the citizens of the Adriatic know, and I am confident and that they know, no decision on the opening of the Rio Tinto mine has been made yet, nor will it be made until the study on environmental impact assessment is completed. I am convinced that state leadership, above all presidents, will not make any decision that is in the interests of citizens, as it has been, but rather, a decision that will be in the best interest of both the citizens of the Adriatic and the citizens of Loznica, but also the citizens of Serbia as a whole. In the end, if necessary, citizens will have the opportunity to democratically declare their fate, and to the Thai opposition, to newly-roasted false environmentalists, I say that citizens will never be like that. They will never allow Serbia to return at a time of nine years, at a time of collapse, at a time of leaving workers on the street, at a time of humiliating dignity for the entire people. I am convinced that, as so far, Loznicani, the Adriatics, as well as citizens of all Serbia, will support the vast percentage of Alexander Vukic's policies, as the politics of Aleksandar Vukic is the only guarantee of a successful, modern and advanced Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11385	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11386	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, today I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on Trade and Economic Co-operation. It's the first law I'll talk about, and later I'll read the second law. Why do you want to talk about this? Because Mongolia is a country that didn't recognize so-called. "Independent Kosovo", this fictional creation. The Republic of Serbia has two provinces and that is the name of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. So there's no such thing as a so-called. "false state of Kosovo", this is a work of art, Shipar. Let's move on. As far as this Agreement is concerned, it only speaks of how the Republic of Serbia is leading its foreign policy, and it leads with extraordinary leadership. After all, it should be said, since the SNS came to power, 16 countries have withdrawn recognition of the so-called. "a false state of Kosovo", under one. Under two, Serbia is primarily a free, independent, sovereign state whose foreign-political goal is the EU, but it is war neutrality. Serbia is forming bilateral, trilateral agreements and it is at all times commendable. Why? Because being networked means half the job done. Today around the world there is an extremely powerful means of Internet communication, if we're networked, we have information. The Republic of Serbia has extraordinary relations with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China, with Japan, with the UAE, with Turkey, Germany, France, with the United States. It's just talking about how we work, running a good peaceful policy. We're making bilateral relations, and it's bearing fruit. We see it by investors, we see it by the percentage of employment. We can see that from Serbia's rating. We're a stability factor in the region. About how Serbia works is also talking about the agreement that was made, so-called ‘Little Schengen’. What does that mean? It means networking again. Three countries, three neighbours due to the region's stability factors, due to the development of the economy, which is the Republic of Serbia, then Northern Macedonia and Albania. What does "little Schengen" mean? It also means the more, the better networking as far as the economy is concerned. Four types of freedom, trade, goods, capital, service. That's how it works. It was also concluded with Mr. Trump, the former president, the Washington Agreement to behave, in order to normalise the economic relationship between Pristina and Belgrade. He's always on our side, plus, with their non-acceptance. The Republic of Serbia, as far as foreign policy is concerned, I don't think there's a cross in the region and a factor in stability and economic development, so that's the way to go. As far as the other topics are concerned, I will briefly only talk about the Law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Bank Intesa, Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Belgrade, under the responsibility of JP "Serbias" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on Credit for the Strengthening Transport Capacity of Gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to talk about this law, because it is primarily important for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia, we are changing today, we have seen boilers that were on the mule and on coal, we are replacing them with gas, which is extremely favourable, which is much faster, which is cheaper, as far as environmental and less pollution is concerned, and we are specifically talking about this loan taken over by the Republic of Serbia from JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, because it is about the gasification of the Zlatibor County. The Goldibor County is extremely important, important, powerful. He's had a budget surplus since last year and not just since last year. It is important that every place in Serbia has gas, that it has gas, and here we will network other cities, which are Priboj, Nova Varoš, Prepolje, Sjenica and Rutoša. As for Rio Tint, very current these days, because he doesn't get off the television, from the media, people have misinformation. In fact, the public needs to know that nothing is over, that first of all the Rio Tinto who came back, I have to say, in 2004 and that it has nothing to do with this authority. So the deal was made when Mr. Zivkovic was prime minister. That should be said 100 times. So we're just inheriting those contracts. As for obtaining a permit, there's no word about permission, because they didn't first and foremost ask for a feasibility study, so they won't get absolutely any kind of excavation. There is no way to do something by international standards, by European Union standards, because we are a country that wants to join the European Union and by law we implement our own legislation. That's what this is all about. It can't be exploited if you haven't received a feasibility study, and since they haven't even applied for it, there's no word for now. We'll see what happens. But I don't understand one thing, and that's that Germany is exploiting lithium, so it's going to make batteries, so it's going to make electric cars out of it, and we're just saying that we don't want pollution, like we don't want our kids and we all live in an ecologically healthy environment. Let's throw away cell phones, laptops, powerful devices, they all have lithium batteries. So, nonces. We should think about what we're doing. Germany exploits lithium and will make electric cars and real batteries, and instead, it is my opinion, that we are doing it according to all European Union standards and that we produce electric cars, ecological cars and that we sell these cars, not that we are exploited, that we are always a third-world country, take minerals, ore, a nice, nice export to our country, make a factory, do it, and then sell to the Republic of Serbia times five, 10 times more expensive. That's not how it works. Rio Tinto doesn't matter, or the protests that are happening these days, and I can see that they're scheduled for Saturday, another nonsense of political Gilas and his clicks, because I guess they're losing, they feel they won't have a pass in this election. I want them to come here so we can look each other in the eye and make a big mistake. That's not how you do it. There's going to be a blockade again, and yet some kid is going to be denied medical help, someone's not going to make it to the destination he needs. If you want, go, I say again, to the mouth, here's the parliament here, come talk to me. That's not how you do it. Through Tinto, through what you did in 2004, you honor us for not wanting an ecologically clean environment. That's not true. Why didn't you react in 2004? Why didn't you answer for Bor and Smederev? Five thousand people work there. They've got people filtering. Whenever something happens, it reacts to the whole public and it ends, but it employs 10,000 people, 10,000 people are not hungry. Imagine what it would be like for us to produce electric cars and batteries here? So do you think that would be to choke? You wouldn't. If Germany, which is the founder of the European Union, is doing so, why not Serbia as well. Just a few words about Mr. Gilas' democracy. Let's just remember his beating us all here by parliament by Mr. Marijan Risticevic, through Mr. Martinovic, and in turn, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, who is the former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from spitting, pushing and the rest, through the entry of motor saws and boys into RTS, and then the other day, smashed his eye, closed around that beautiful boy, just because he wanted to pass. So they won't let us move. If we move, we get beat up. Then whoever's beating her is on TV and explain to us how we need to do what they're imagining, and what he did is a hero. Just because we've been through it means we've been through it well. You're a disgrace. They burned this congregation - vandalism. Beating cops - violence, and we're talking about their democracy. It's not democracy, and our president is not a fascist. It's the greatest Democrats this country has ever produced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11387	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11388	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have reported today to discuss the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation. As the minister said this morning, this agreement was signed in the United States on 23 September. Serbia and Mongolia have traditionally had good and friendly relations and there has been a certain intensification of co-operation over the past few years. Stock exchange, you were also talking about the trade, the highest value was $1.1 million, and that was in 2019, and that means then there's one solid basis for multi-way co-operation. The application of this Agreement is based on the following principles – this is equality, non-discrimination and mutual benefit, and it gives a very nice basis to expand to other branches. As we see today, we again sign another bilateral agreement. This just means that again and in part we prove that we have associates and friends in both the east and the west and we are working again to improve the business environment in Serbia. But for a small part of Serbia led by Dragan Gilas, it is not good and on the day of the signing of the SNS accession for one smaller part of Serbia you become both toothless and sandwich and uneducated although it is absolutely not true, although the SNS officially has more highly educated members than all other parties have members together. So, as a member of the SNS, even for one part of the media that is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas and Šolak, you will always be both sandwichers and all that I have stated just because you support President Alexander Vukic and these are some facts and there should not be any loss of energy. Today we have a situation and we have talked about it many times so far that the leaders of the opposition say in all sorts of ways of effort to come to power, but they don't mind anyone but President Aleksandar Vukic, and then there's a lot of different people, they say the most creative, most innovative different outflows, and we have the destruction and destruction of the SNS rooms, and they say that everyone is going to chase their adversaries, eventually insult the president's family, threaten the president, threaten his family, insult us even here, but we know here again that it's just an indirect way to destabilize somehow, try to further destabilise the president, and that he's giving up the fight for a better future for all of us. What's very interesting is that they're not even complicated about it. The only thing the opposition today agrees on is the hatred they have and which they express towards President Vukic, and since, in addition to all the external pressures that Serbia has today, the president manages somehow to withstand all attacks and to fight and not give up the fight. I absolutely don't understand what they want anymore and I think even the people don't understand it anymore, and when I talk to people like this they say to me -- well, they ruled for several years or as many years as they ruled and what they now want again. We know what they did, we know how they did, what they didn't do, what they wanted again. When you are told that Gilas was only the mayor, it should be reminded that before he became mayor he was also the minister of government and was even the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia and anyone who says otherwise can, with two, three clicks on the Internet, check this information and see the facts because it is true, and the truth is only one. As part of the previous speech, I talked about it, and I explained that almost everyone, less all the representatives of today's opposition are part of the former regime and the former DS and you see now we have the fact that they're talking about some kind of unification with themselves. We're talking about some columns, whether they're going into one, two, five different columns, and the fact is that they're uniting with themselves. One of the most interesting things about this is that some of the NGOs, which are funded by certain foreign foundations, such as the Rock Feller Foundation, want to take primate in opposition. But that's what they want to do on the street. They want Gilas no longer to be the head of the opposition column and a certain Sava Manojlovic has appeared with some other people, who have come up with the idea that their own, probably also creative charges, should be shown on the street and organise a colored revolution. Then they say that these protests now since the weekend that previous colleagues talked about were ecological and a number of people gathered in several cities. President Vukic talked about a total of 31,000 people, I've seen some of their posts, they say 150,000 people. Every one of us who's seriously involved in politics shouldn't throw numbers like that, and we just know what a large number of people who come in and who support SNS and we know when we go back to any rally for years, for example, and final rallys etc. SNS, we know what the number of people is and we know how many people it is and we can very clearly compare it, but it's not that important. What is most important is that on the very day that some blocked the roads, Aleksandar Vukic went directly to where they say there is a problem and he spoke directly to people about the problem that was officially the topic of the protest and tonight at 1800 hours, President Aleksandar Vukic will turn to the people, you know that minister, and the people will hear what the proposal for that solution is. And that's how the real statesman works. I will now, if you allow, show only two photos, please direct only a little closer, only two photographs that clearly show whether this was and gives an answer to whether this was an ecological protest or not? This one here is a photo from New Belgrade, and here we see a group of people who turned on the torches. There's even a video that's available on social networks, if only a director, please, because it's not a very big picture, so just to zoom in, it would be good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it's important to see what it's all about, and then they threw those torches off the road. You'll see, for example, in Panchev what's left after the protest and now you tell me if someone who's fighting for environmentalism is able to fight this way for environmental science and then leave this sort of thing in an ecological protest? We have seen that these were not exactly ecological protests and all that, it is important to mention that we have been granted approval, or consent to the opening of the fourth cluster relating to both the environment and climate change. So from all this I've stated, it's clear that there are more reasons for protests in this sense there are no, right? Just because there's no reason to protest, we should expect now and there won't be a protest. The proof of this and what I was saying earlier that the reason for the protests is not ecology, not any of what they mention, but the destruction of Alexander Vukic is my assumption, and we'll see in a few days, that there will be some protests on Saturday, but the topic will probably be another. Of course, the second topic is nonexistent, because the main topic they don't talk about is the destruction of Alexander Vukic and that's on the street. And the opposition today is a non-institutional factor in destructive action, not an institutional factor in constructive action. I think colleagues agree, let the opposition do what they want. Everyone has the right to lead their policies the way they want to, but not on the street, because that way we see the terror of minorities above most and not in such a way that ordinary people can't move freely through the city. I will remind everyone, especially the representatives of the former regime, that we live in a different country today, in a different Serbia than the one they lived in. We live in Serbia today, which runs a free policy, which leads an independent policy, which has a clearly defined position in terms of European integration and Serbia and the future of Serbia, are not decided by the ambassadors of any foreign state, not by foreign foundations, but by the tycoons, but by the people and legitimately elected representatives. So today we live in Serbia where the people decide. The people will also be in the elections that will be held in April and show who they support and whether what they are doing is right or not, but we'll see soon enough. We live in Serbia today where the future is important and unlike those in whose time the factories closed and who worked for their interests, President Aleksandar Vukic and his team show that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are important and important. In many ways, Serbia led by the policies of President Aleksandar Vukic shows its citizens that they are important and that they think of them, both their families and their interest. For example, from January 1st next year, 300,000 dinars will be made for each first child, and there will be a significant increase for both the second and the third children. It is always necessary to compare, and let the people of the Republic of Serbia compare what the opposition offered while in power, and what President Aleksandar Vukic has achieved so far and what he is offering. A lot has been done, but unfortunately, a lot has been forgotten and maybe even we're to blame for not talking enough about all the things that have been done. It's kind of like there's some important things that have been done in the past. What's up with us, we need to change, which is to be even more on the ground, to get our fellow citizens to know the results so far and talk about some future plans. For example, how many new factories have been opened to this day, how many roads have been built? Only Alexander Vukic has opened over 200 factories so far, but you know, since you're coming from an economy you know very well, to open a factory you don't just have to come and open that factory, you need to find investors, you need to talk to them. At the end of the day when the factory opens, you should hire those people. It's a huge process and over 200 factories have opened Alexander Vukic so far. If we talk, and I always like to talk, about the average salary. The average salary, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister, was 330 euros. We are now talking about expecting a 610-euro salary in January, and the finance ministry even has some projections that it will be 617. We're talking about making a minimum profit of 300 euros, 35,000 dinars, and we're talking about that minimum profit in January next year being as much as the average profit when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister and that's just for, I can't say for a few years, but for a short, short period of time. By the end of this year, since I mentioned the roads, we should mention, of course, the beginning of the construction of ten new highways and fast roads and I can ask – what happened in the previous period? What roads were built? I was relatively nearly in Arandelovac, and there's an interesting thing. During the previous government, only seven kilometers of local roads were done. During our government over 200 km of roads have been done and 80 more will be done. It's so much less in every unit of local self-government where the SNS is in power, but we need to talk to our fellow citizens, so our fellow citizens know what's been done. That kind of thing can't be understood. As we can see, in the previous period we have achieved real results, the results seen and we will continue to support citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Both yesterday and today were payments of an additional 20 euros to all full-time citizens who applied, and all of us who support President Aleksandr Vukic, whether we are members of SNS, sympathisers, SNS officials, we must also show that we are members of the SNS. We have to stand behind this man, we have to show in part that we support him, we have to talk to our citizens about everything that has been done so far, we have to listen to suggestions, because we are here because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will be there for them and we have to talk about our plans, because we as SNS and as the Republic of Serbia have serious plans for the next period. That's what my colleagues were talking about, so I wouldn't talk about it anymore. I will, when these proposals are laws and agreements, support all the laws and agreements in the voting day, because I think we are improving their business environment in Serbia and allowing Serbia to continue to progress. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11389	Thank you. Dear Peoples of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11390	We're going back to work. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11391	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is today the fastest growing economy in Europe. Thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures in 2014, thanks to the comprehensive measures during the world's largest, economic crisis that resulted in the Kovida-19 pandemic, Serbia is among the countries with the highest support measures for both citizens and businesses, and that is what the whole world recognises. Serbia spent eight billion euros on its citizens, its economy, and Serbia managed to preserve factories, manage to preserve jobs, and manage not to increase poverty, according to the International Labour Organisation's report. Serbia has also managed to increase the number of employees. Today, we have proposals for legislation relating to further compliance with EU legislation, but of course regarding further economic growth, development and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents, but there is also an agreement concerning bilateral co-operation in economic and trade with Mongolia. It is a sign that Serbia is today leading a peaceful bilateral policy, a friendship policy with all countries of the world, primarily of the interest of the Republic of Serbia and of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there is another very important document on the agenda today, which is giving a loan guarantee on the loan that will pull "Srbigas", which is due to the gasification of the Zlatibor County. I must point out that President Aleksandar Vukic visited and spoke to the citizens of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi on 21 May 2021. During the talks, he promised that these municipalities of the Zlatibor district of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica would be connected to the pipeline. Gas pipeline as the purest energy so-called. The blue energy brings new investments, brings new jobs, thereby bringing higher salaries, higher pensions and better quality of life to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. For the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, the better quality of life for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia is focused. The better standard of man's life, the only man in the world is the focus of our parliamentary group's attention. The gasification of the Zlatibor County, which normally includes 10 municipalities, is the largest district in the Republic of Serbia. For these three municipalities, i.e. four municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoš, this will certainly mean the arrival of new investments. What the president of the state, Aleksandar Vucic, promised citizens on 21 May, is here today at a debate in the National Assembly, it is about giving a guarantee on a 40m-euro loan that is withdrawn for the sake of gasification of this area. The pay-off period is eight years with a two-year period. What I'm trying to say is that the world, apart from the major health crisis, and also the health crisis, has created a major economic crisis, has also been followed by a major energy crisis. Just as a true state, as a true visionary, as a true missionary, as someone whom Serbia first and its citizens, Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, visited the Russian Federation in November this year and personally spoke with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin. The talks stemmed from an agreement that Russia would deliver Serbia's gas at the same price, costing $270 per thousand cubic metres and the price will be valid for six months to come. Therefore, thanks to the politics of Aleksandar Vucic, Serbian citizens will have the most favourable gas price for the next six months, with enough electricity. There's no need to worry about heating. All that was to be provided was provided sufficient amounts of electricity and sufficient amounts of gas. This is, of course, the departure of the president of the state, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and the conversation and such an agreement with the president of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, certainly means a great ratio of trust and personal respect for President Vladimir Putin towards Alexander Vukic, towards the country of Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic also represents. Of course, after these six months, the president of the Republic also informed us that a long-term contract will also be signed, for a longer period of time, and also expects that the price of gas will be at appropriate prices. What I want to point out is that everything the President of the Republic does, everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, is solely in the interest of a better quality of life for citizens. All that Alexander Vucic is saying is true, the truth always tells the people, the truth and only the truth. No problem facing it is pushed under the carpet, on the contrary, it also has problems for decades and decades under the carpet and faces them directly in order to enable citizens to live a better and better quality life. What I also want to point out, and as far as these four municipalities of Prijebo, Prepolje, Novi Varoshi and Sjenica are concerned, is that I can specifically say that, as far as ecology is concerned, what could not have been done for decades, and this is the "Stavine" dump on the main road to Belgrade-South Adriatic, on the way to Prepolje, on the road to the Milleseva monastery and the second-in-command of King Vladislav Nemanjac, a monastery in which the French "White Angel" was located, was the largest garbage dump, a real ecological bomb. Thanks to this government, thanks to Environment and Environment Minister Ireni Vujovic, the "Stavine" dump has been completely renovated. The dump is removed, the site has been rescheduled, the coastal forts according to Lim are built, and there is a green area in the area today and there are planted logs. Not only that, in January, or at the end of December last year, there was almost the largest floating dump of thousands of cubic meters, the largest floating waste. With a quick reaction from the government and a rapid reaction from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Potpecko Lake was cleaned, which was otherwise a dump, waste was taken to the Regional Centre "Deeply" in Užica. But not only that, an international co-operation agreement between the three states, Serbia, Montenegro and BiH has been signed immediately, through which the Lim River runs. What the Ministry of Ecology has done is that on Lima, Lake Potpečko, chains have been placed on the lake so that never again the accumulation of such waste would occur, but the waste stops and, of course, goes from there. Also, I must point out that the Ministry of Ecology, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and everything in order to protect the environment, in addition to this gasification, which is of immense importance and invaluable importance for these municipalities, has done a lot for greening, has also done a lot to build the transfer of the Banjic station to Novi Varosha. The 2022 budget envisions eightm euros for the transfer of stations to Novi Varosa, but has also been done well and the budget envisions that this continues to set up a wastewater treatment plant and treatment of waste water. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia and how they take care of environmentalism, about protecting the environment, because we need to preserve this country for us, but we need to leave this country healthy and clean for our descendants as well. That's why we're doing everything we do today on our environmental agenda right now. When it comes to Priboy, I must point out that this government has done more for the Pryboy Municipality than any previous government since World War II. Of course, thanks primarily to the vision of the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, as Priboj is a border municipality, it is located on the three-way between Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. I must point out that in Priboj one of the largest industrial zones has been made, with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that hundreds of workers are working in the industrial zone today, that not only are foreign investors in the industrial zone, but also an employer from Požega, who also employs citizens from Priboj, where salaries are quite large. Unlike the yellow tycoon authorities depicted in the image and in the Sundays of Dragan Gilas, when the salary in Priboj was 20,092 dinars in their time, today the average salary in Priboj, compared to the entire Zlatibor County, is about 450 euros, with the tendency to keep the salary average in this municipality still growing. During his visit to the Municipality of Priboj, the President of the Republic also promised to work on a road that would connect Zlatibor, Zlatar and Pribojska Banja and this was done already in September, and the state road of Kokin Brod – Priboj, which has an exceptional importance for connecting the road, i.e. Pojboj with Uzic. We all know that in mid-2022, the highway "Milos Velika" will reach Požega, but from Požega one leg will go to Užica and Kotoman, and further towards Visegrad, while the other leg is heading towards the cave high, all the way to the border with Montenegro to Bolar. Travel infrastructure, industrial development, employment, clean air, clean water, clean land is something that this government heads up with Alexander Vukic in continuity. Also, I must point out that, thanks to the Government, the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all primary schools in the city itself have been reconstructed in Priboj, that a reconstructed and fully restored secondary machine and electrical engineering school, that the start-ap centre in Priboj is open, that a high-tech school is working in the industrial zone, which schools engineers of machinery and traffic will be able to find employment in the industrial zone. We hope that the time will never come again when the citizens of Priboj will move in one direction only, mostly the way of Belgrade and the larger centres, because all of this is done precisely to keep the citizens of Priboj, so that young people will stay in their place and develop it in the best possible way, so that Priboj will continue to be like once the industrial momentum of the entire Zlatibor County. Since the time of the takeover of power in 2012, SNS has returned to Priboj the basic court, which is also significant from the aspect of the satisfaction of the Justice and Rights of the citizens of Priboj Municipality, so that they no longer have the need to go to their judicial disputes either in Prepolje or Uzice. For those sick who went daily to dialysis in Prepolje or Užice at a general hospital in Priboj, the building was built up, so that the citizens of Priboj now do not have to go further from their municipality. Of course, I would like to stress that Priboj is also one of the municipalities in which, thanks to the support and assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been built and released into the work of a thermal pipeline. It is a heat pipeline on biomass, which certainly reduces pollution, which certainly costs the price of paying, but also, of course, what is significant for citizens, it is that citizens have almost day and night warm apartments. As for the environmentals and these protests that are happening, of course there are people who are worried about clean air, water and land. I've just told all of this before to show people that this government is working daily on clean air, clean land, clean water. Serbia is the country in which we all live, and it is the obligation of this authority, which does so on a daily basis, to leave it to our descendants. Of course, the environmental movements are not about any ecology, it is a purely political protest between Dragan Gilas tycoon and his employees, also a tycoon, who think the government can be won on the street. The big Democrats seem to know not the basic democratic right of every civilized country, and Serbia is both a democratic and civilized country, that the power is won in the elections and only in the elections. The Supreme Judge of all political parties is a people, who, in the elections, surrounds the policy they consider to lead to prosperity and improvement, both themselves and their families and society as a whole. Serbia is a country of decent, hardworking people. Dragan Gilas seems to know only about the money. The money comes first, because if it hadn't been for that, he wouldn't have robbed the country and the people for 619m euros. He doesn't seem to know that Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party are Serbia and citizens' interests in the first place. Also, Alexander Vukic, next to Serbia, is a very important face, honor and dignity. Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon, and the robber of the people's couples, no honor, no cheek, no dignity. I expect that citizens will vote in free democratic elections on April 3rd for peace policy, security policy, prosperity policy, new cradles and life policy, a policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, because the policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11392	The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11393	I would like to thank the chairman, dear Mr Orlic, the respected minister with his associates, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have three important laws that confirm the government's efforts to further improve and develop Serbia and create better conditions and for the progress of the economy, but that our young and talented people can come to terms with their ideas that they come to protect it and that they can be commercialised in an adequate way. Thus, the legal solution, i.e. to amend and supplement the patent law, is something that will enable, in particular, the segment of small patents to improve these small patents and thus improve their products, intellectual property that they have protection and that they can commercialise it. What is very important to mention, and we have been talking about this for a long time, is this segment of digitisation, so these legal solutions are also intended to be implemented through the protection of these patents themselves in electronic format, as we now have when it comes to e-Government, e-Health and other segments of our society. What's also important when we talk about an agreement signed with Mongolia, it's just another effort to further improve co-operation with all our friendly countries. This time I take the opportunity to thank another Mongolia for supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to say that there is also a desire for these two countries to further improve, so that through this Agreement a special group will be formed to work further on deepening this trade co-operation, economic co-operation, where we will determine what other areas in which our two countries can co-operate and improve this co-operation and foreign trade. What is commendable is to break that value of one billion when it comes to trade in goods. She needs to move on. My esteemed colleagues and colleagues specifically talked about the gasification segment that is important for the Zlatibor County. This is another proof that it is working further on the even development of the state, because I am the Zlatibor County, although there is this surplus when it comes to the dispute-trade exchange, when it comes to economic activity, does not mean that it stops with the aid and support of the state, but through the gasification process we will cover a few things. One of the segments is to create opportunities for new investors to come and use this energy to realise their projects and products. What's different is in the environmental segment and environmental protection. Exactly what is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is intensive, however much this extraparliamentary opposition has tried and tried to tell its lies that ecology is not a priority exactly and through this agreement that is today we prove that and that it is one of the important priorities, because through the gasification process, we will create conditions for both households and for the economy to use gas as an energy that will protect the environment instead of those solid fuels that have been used so far and that has had a negative impact on the protection of the environment. Speaking of environmental protection, we are witnessing regrettably that the previous Saturdays, and we see that we are intensively preparing members of this cowardly opposition, who were not allowed to go to the polls, are now announcing that they will come out, we will see to the end what they will do, how they are intensively preparing to block Serbia again and to block both decent and normal citizens of Serbia so that they can function normally and work. It's not just that. The nervousness in their ranks is also so great, because we see every day that these protests themselves, which they don't normally use to protect the environment, because in their demands, there's nothing to be used for environmental protection. What is very important is that we also say at the media shows that we see on their side, not only there are none of the ecologicals, but each of them deals with their own interests and competes with each other who will compete within these few columns in which they come out to dominate. What they want is maybe a percentage more support to catch up to themselves and compete in who has a higher percentage of support. They are already very much announcing that there is and won the elections, that each of them has the necessary majority to bring down Alexander Vukic, but what I am simply interested in in in these statements, who he actually has and who he is most of whom they have, because in the end, as I see it, everything will come to the attention of those famous Gilas 110%, and eventually it will all be what they do, one toy crying, because in the end, on April 3rd, the citizens will go to the elections, say their position. I am sure they will absolutely not support those who are pushing to rob Serbia again, to take away from the citizens what they belong to, to lock up factories, to leave people without existence and opportunities for a normal life. We can see for ourselves the support they have. In their views, I was also going to say that they clearly say that they don't care about ecology, so this famous silent, environmentalist, and in fact no environmentalist but a man who got angry because he couldn't build his own mini power plant, so he suddenly became an absolute opponent of the construction of a mini power plant, he said. He says you're wrong, Alexander Vukic, if you think that meeting two basic demands will stop the protests. Which tells us clearly that here neither they are interested in the demands that have been delivered nor are they interested in the fight for ecology, they are only interested in achieving their private initiatives. They're just interested in trying through these protests, as I said, to get to which vote more, that there may be an election, and that three-percent censorship to skip to come here to parliament and, of course, they can do nothing further. We saw in the previous session when they had their MPs here, that they were not really interested in the work of parliament and plenary fighting for the interests of Serbian citizens or at least those citizens who voted for them. The most important thing for them was to come here, raise their salary, raise their travel expenses and then go home to do other private business. Again, they don't care about Serbian citizens. What is the latest we could see, and that is unfortunately another intention they are planning, which is what colleagues were talking about, and that is an attempt to implement some colourful revolution in Serbia. So Srdjan Milivojević, and I would have liked it if the camera showed it, revealed a tweet on which he said: "Andrey and Danilo found in a shah like Gadhafi." It is clear to you, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what intentions are behind this tweet, the famous Srdjan locator, the man who managed to become the only master in playing solitaire and master in writing tweets and nothing else, because for him and when he was running for member of the MZ Council which he of course should not have done in Kruševec when the elections were held, he would not have received any votes, or even from his neighbours, because the Kruševljani know perfectly who Srdjan Milivojevic is. From this we can see perfectly that he ate what he did during this period, that he may have become, well, now some expert on colored revolutions, because we remember from 1999 to 2000 when the whole of this story for the Resistance, whose leader was also at one point how he went, or where he went through the training and on whose orders he worked. So these tweets and attitudes are everyone for condemnation and decent and normal Serbia is disgusted by these statements, false patriots, false environmentalists, false Democrats, people who only care about their own interests, until their boss tycoon can reverse the game of 619 million again, that maybe they, if he has the boss, leave it behind, will not pass. It certainly won't go away, and yet we say, so much anxiety, because they failed those goals, probably set in front of their employers and their financials to accomplish. They've started to discover that it's simple for themselves to be amazing. So, besides Mladja, the godfather who said in his statement that these protests are again not intended for any ecology, but to bring down Vukic. We also had this opportunity to hear from Lutovac, the acquired DS manager, who, of course, again probably misrepresented the true intentions of his party's biggest confidant, Dragan Gilas. Here, we now have Srdjan Milivojevic who brought it up. We've actually seen in their mutual conversations that they have and when they talk that they can't agree again on the demands that will be delivered and make this whole story a jukebox of good wishes and unfortunately for who knows which way they're just trying to manipulate the citizens. And yet it is interesting, purely because of the public to say, that when we hear other opposition leaders, that they are also making every effort to use this whole story for their own promotion, so Bosko Obradovic tried to say in some conversation that he was an idea designer of such protests, or blockades, where he said, while there was an alliance for Serbia, he was the first to block the streets, to make Serbian citizens nervous. He's been criticised, he says, by members of that Alliance, and now, all of a sudden, it turns out to be a good idea. Now he's probably wondering if maybe it was the boss of the tycoon who stole his idea or if he's trying to make himself an idea maker of this project? Of course, my personal opinion is that they discuss it with each other in court. We also have the situation of lawyers from the People's Party who can't regret that because of his boss, Jeremic did not participate in the negotiations that were being held because, yes, he had already pissed on himself maybe the RIK position, so in some of their talks, a man openly said that, well, we didn't go to talk, and if we had talked, we'd get two more seats in the RIK. He probably already saw himself there, so now he's going to start getting mad at his boss Jeremic for not coming to talk, but for some personal vanity he followed the footsteps of Gilas. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you can see that the whole story behind these protests that they are trying to organise now on Saturday and clearly saying they have neither the ecological character nor the goal of improving something in Serbia stands only the personal interests of the boss and the tycoon, the personal interests of all those members of the former tycoon regime, because the only thing they want to do is come to power. They know that they cannot support the citizens of the Republic of Serbia through support, they know that they will probably not have enough support to get into the assembly benches in the upcoming elections, so they are trying to do it across the street. I am absolutely sure that decent Serbia and that citizens will not allow it, and I am sure that on April 3rd, we will send all these people, the haters and false patriots, the false Democrats, into the historical past, into that shameful historical history of the politics of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11394	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11395	Thank you, Chairman. The respected minister and fellow Serbian citizens, all of these agreements my colleagues today fully explained are the continuation of the progressive policies run by this government, so I don't want much to look back on them. I'd like to talk about a subject that's been keeping citizens' attention for the last few months, which I think is important, to try to point out to our dear citizens the unworthy intentions of our political opponent they've been serving, in an unworthy way to seduce a part of our people and turn it against this state-of-the-art government. I'll make a little introduction. A few days ago, we witnessed Albania and so on. The republic of Kosovo signed a series of agreements that gradually erase the border between a sovereign state and a state-owned formation calling itself a republic, gradually achieving their eternal goal -- the creation of a great Albania, which has been active since the evening of the Berlin Congress since 1878 and the Prizren League. They can't be resented, it's a serious nation that strives to achieve its eternal goals and theirs never and nothing can stand in the way of fighting together to achieve them. They don't care about their people's belongings to different confessions, different political parties, attitudes or anything different, because around clearly defined national and national objectives, everyone is integrated as one. And he didn't give God to anyone to think that they could go public and say, for example, that Kosovo was illegal and in an illegal way kidnapped from Serbia, or to say that Račak was staged, or that they condemn those who in the yellow house were extracting the organs of our neighbours, or Serbs and selling them in the Western market, about which Veselin Džetovic wrote in the book "Serbian Heart of Johan". While they are so complex, we have seen that Mr. Edi Rama, in the interview, said that he did not speak in internal relations in front of foreigners, regardless of what it is, whether the struggle to come to power or any other interest, so far some of the people of the Serbian people, particularly in the opposition of this government today, are ready to do absolutely anything for the sake of coming to power, leading to that Makijaveli's sensation "to justify the means". I'd like to analyze here what is the objective of the current opposition, which is used by means of funds and who implements these funds. You don't need to be too smart, the goal is clear. The goal is to send a bad picture of Serbia and its authorities to the public, so that like other similar colored resolutions, protests can be massaged, clashes on the streets, which would cause civil war, which would then replace legal and legitimate authority by illegal means, chosen by a vast majority of our people's votes and tended to be one new October 5th. I can say that somewhere and I have an understanding of the October 5th that happened in 2000. Serbia was destroyed at the time. People were tired of wars, of sanctions, of lack of property. The decade of torment, anxiety and hard life was behind our citizens and these were sufficient reasons for the opposition's lack of political literacy to happen on October 5th. I say - insufficient political literacy, because it must be called naive belief to the international community that as soon as Slobodan Milosevic is removed in Serbia will raise honey and milk. But, esteemed citizens, what is this reason for such a longing to happen today on October 5th? The war is gone, neither will it be, given the wise foreign policy of our country, and our army is stronger than ever, for God's sake, as our people say. Our GDP growth is among the largest in Europe. Salaries and pensions are almost twice as high as in the period of government of those who now want to ride back the state saddle under the cover of environmental protests. Now, at this point, we're building 10 highways. This government opened 274 factories and hired hundreds of thousands of people. In this year alone, it attracted over three billion euros and 100,000 euros of foreign direct investment, which is more than a sum of all investments in the region. Let's not talk about new hospitals, investing in sports, culture and everything. Dear citizens, are these the reasons why a new October 5th should happen? Of course not. Let's go further, chronologically, just so the people realize that these protests have absolutely no connection to the environment, nor to these, according to the controversial laws, but to the desire of certain political pygmies, forgive me for using such a difficult word, because, simply, I quoted one respected professor from law school, but what word to find for someone who openly tells all the worst stories about their country and their people, Mr Gabriel Escobar in America, or in the Vienna newspaper "Di presses", or those who get a huge reach from abroad, from various centres of power, whether from Rockefeller, or Soros, or any other, of course, believing that representatives of the Europarlamento rubber will wipe out this power and bring them to the same, through some form of transitional government or similar, with an irrational and common sense of unacceptable requirements, such as the establishment of the Ministry of Publicization or the RTS programme. After their plan was quite ambitious, they turned to other alternatives. First, twenty days ago in, from this time distance, looking at, a very likely co-ordinated action with colleagues from the "United Valley of the SDA" sitting with us in this parliament, they took advantage of the retirement of counterpart Zukorlic, who had made a wise and peaceful policy in the territory of the Raška area to contribute to peace and stability, immediately pulled out of the motion to adopt a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. Shortly after that, only a few hours later, a great activist in the fight for justice, Mrs. Ćorovic, the cheap performance with the cameraman's command -- now go to film me, to probably raise dramatisation, throw a few eggs at the mural Ratko Mladic, who in his street for over a year, of course, with the help of Mrs. Jelena Jaćimovic, who wore a duxer, which shows that she is a fan of some religious sect called "Satan's Temple". Of course, passions got in the way. There have almost been some unwanted situations, which our police, defending peace, defending the order and security of all our citizens, have managed to prevent, and which has been honored immediately afterwards to defend the mural of Ratko Mladic, not our people. Immediately afterwards, after several days, the story of "Rio Tint", a company that came to Serbia during late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and signed over nine agreements with all previous governments, the most significant one since February 1, 2012, where the permit to dig wells of large diameters or what they are already called. When this is explained and explained, when it is said that the people will decide on "Rio Tint" in the referendum, to wait for a study on environmental impact, when videos and interviews by Mr Gilas and all others have been released, and all those who have happily talked about "Rio Tint" as the golden coke of Serbia, that Serbia will step out of this business in the future, etc., few of these things have subdued the passions, but do not lie down, just for a little while. Right after, the mitts are moving around the subway. Imagine, respected citizens, what fifty years of the dreams of all authorities, which we have managed to realize, are now nightmares to them, or at least that's how they represent them to our citizens. Should we ride in the cattle wagons just so you can come to power, gentlemen? There's nothing to do with that job. Serbia is in a hurry to modernise and will continue, despite their desire to bring us back to the Middle Ages. Shortly after that, the problems became the Law on the Referendum and the Law on the People's Initiative, as well as the Expropriation Act, although it is clear and declarative that it has absolutely nothing to do with the preamble to Kosovo's status, or the Rio Tint, or anything else that is placed on our people so that it has some fear and fear. Although it is explained that the Law on the Referendum and the Law on the People's Initiative is in line with all the legal norms, both autonomous and international, as well as the Law on Expropriation, which, of course, if there are shortcomings, can be completely legal and legitimately amended, complemented, changed, besides, nothing is disputed about it, is now under the leadership of some obscenuous political figures, because as much as they try to tell the public that they are not interested in politics, they are, respected citizens, they are exclusively interested in power. They organize a part of our people so that, by breaking the Constitution and the laws, blocking traffic, they can lead to the authorities of their organizers, who are now, to God, fighting for health and air or water, which is now recently, as our young people say, in. In the absence of any political ideology, in the absence of a programme, in the absence of plans, it is a tendency on the world level to suddenly integrate individual and obscenity political actors around a common denominator, which is a struggle for the environment, accusing everyone else of detesting the environment in which they live and how happy they would be if their people and those with him, as Jessen said in his song, died in smog and garages. That's why they're all suddenly worried about each other now. If they had, respected citizens, these two brochures, they would never be called to healthy air, they would never be called to environmentals, or water, or to the struggle for nature, for whose protection this authority has invested and done more than many others before it combined. Now you can check the quality of the air in Bora, and look how it was during their rule. Look how much we've removed from the dump, how much we've cleaned up the river streams, how much we've built a wastewater processing plant and everything. What does it say, esteemed citizens, in these brochures? In this one they write all the results they have done together with our SNS citizens, and in this second they write plans for the next period, if we get the citizens' trust in the next elections, which are contained in 10 points concerning the continuing strengthening of Serbia's overall social stability, our country's independence in making strategic decisions, friendship building policies with everyone, strengthening the economy, the country's demographic recovery, as well as preserving Serbia's culture, traditions, languages and everything else. Of course, if we are going to realize all these promised plans is absolutely not questionable, because until now we have achieved it, no matter how incredible it seems, like Beograd on the water or like the subway, which is now being built. I told them what their goal was, and the goal is to come to power, no ecological movements, no healthy air, but only essential, brutal, without any morally twisted power, which would serve to satisfy personal passions and appetites, as well as to help certain factors abroad, as close as possible, to which strong and sovereign Serbia bothers, not because of some personal animosities or relationships, but because of clearly defined geostrategic and geopolitical interests of their political elites. Now I'd like to say something about the means they use, which would justify this maquivelist approach. I would say that they are inhumane, rude and politically and certainly otherwise incorrect, which is an invitation to the lynch, an invitation to certain crystal nights, to the lustration, swearing to the mother to the President of the Republic in the middle of a show by Mr Vidojkovic, who is one of the ringleaders of this protest, who she immediately ran to defend Mrs. Vednelic and with her unhidden sympathies said that he was cursing very colourful and dense. Then, the means of beating them up and pulling out their eyes to the badger drivers, whom Mrs. Marinika Tepic immediately embraced by some hooligan, and said that he now needs to be given some street, some horde or I don't know what, because an innocent man has life-threatening. Then, you know who I am and you know what will happen to you when I come to power, and all with the aim of disrupting the poisonous seed of hatred and evil between the same people, between brothers, friends and godfathers, the same one that we have not yet recovered from during World War II and when we were divided into brushes and partisans. Now I have to say a few words about these actors who want to fight us between themselves, and that's no less than the gentleman with the name "Khuta," who applied for a license to build a hydropower plant, so when he didn't get it, he became suddenly one important environmental commando who, without wanting to insult him, seemed pretty funny and funny when I saw that scrawny and semi-scaring look on his face. Then, this Mr. Manojlovic of the "Go, Change" initiative, which was sponsored by a rival company "Rio Tintu", called "BHP Limited", and which was publicly said on the show "The impression of the week" that he was on a direct line with a university in the United States, of which he received clear instructions to tear down this government. To mention also the fist of the Freedom and Justice Party, Mr. Brian Brkovic, who is the son and grandson of the two largest Serbians in Montenegro, which is Balša and Jevrem Brkovic, who loathed in the previous decades of all Serbian and in every way tried to make sure in Montenegro everything called the Serbian name, which was confirmed, at least according to witnesses, that he gave 100 euros to anyone who came from Novi Sad to Belgrade for protests. Not to mention the "Multi" opposition. Of course, I'm not saying this in a pervasive context, because personally I have nothing against anyone, but I have against their water policy, which I think is a path towards destabilisation, humiliation, weakness and, ultimately, the betrayal of our country and its national and vital interests. So, I'm not talking about the "Multicom" opposition to offend someone from the opposition, because simply, that's the fact that half of the opposition members are employed in the "Multicom Group", and the other half is receiving certain donations, loans they don't repay, so it's somewhat the same. Finally, respected citizens, for the achievement of the above-mentioned goals are those who are also fighting for one of the wisest Serbian heads, the patriarch of Serbian Mr Porphyri, after his appeal to calm tensions, brotherly love and style, after the same appeal, which President Vukic said at the party's jubilee a few days ago in Arena, that we must protect and love and those who have succumbed to the lies of this group of politicians, have spilled on them the most disgusting insults, ungodly, without any style, without any tact and morals, and after that fact, everything is still unreasonable and unwise to comment. To conclude, as Makiaveli said, and they adopted immediately, the cause justifies the means. They're the target of power. Those who achieve the goal are convicted slanderers, businessmen in an attempt, sponsored by a foreign factor, domestic and foreign interest groups. Their means are hate, blood, rematch, discord, Serbia's weakness, and the hands of those who could crush it like a plastic, making it a figure that they could play with as they wish. But, dear gentlemen, there's nothing to do with that job. Our people know that at the head of its people who love their country, its people, its mountains, rivers and lakes, they are at the head of this country people who with all their might, with all the wisdom they have struggled for the better life of our citizens and the preservation of our delicate and even simple position on the world's political scene. This way I tell them to keep destroying their land and their people from Sunday to Sunday different demands. First they were disturbed by the mural, then the Rio Tinto, then the subway, and now the laws, will probably bother them next month why it snowed in December. As they do so, we will work and build and watch our wise people wipe them off the political map of Serbia after the next elections, because the people cannot be deceived. He knows who thinks, who works hard, works for Serbia and all its citizens, and this is SNS led by Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11396	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic tells them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11397	Dear President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about agreements that are on our agenda, our relations with Mongolia, about the guarantee of credit to Serbiagas and gasification, the security of our country's energy stability, but as someone who is a member of the SNS, I want to comment today on something that is definitely one kind of cancer of this society, people who have and plead to deal with politics, even if at one point they own power, which represents what is definitely the most detestable, most disgusting in this society and this society, after all these years of reforms, effort, the work of President Alexander Vukic, our party, builds a cloak, builds a mud bar and returns us in the period from 2000 to 2012, when with great satisfaction economic, political and vital success, in just 12 years of destruction of this country. To explain what my speech is today, I will remind you of October 20, 2020. On that day, a convoy in the Libyan city of Sirt, which was the hometown of Colonel Muammer El Gaddafi, headed towards another city of Sabha, was a civil war, headed for the highway, the planes, so the French air force within NATO bombed the convoy, destroyed the vehicles and the people who were in those vehicles, so the personal security of Muamer el Gaddafi, ran out, those who survived from the car. During that time, the other side of the conflict came, chuckled, caught Muamer El Gaddafi, who was the legitimate head of the state, censured him, raped him, and eventually killed him. We all know today, nine years after these events, what Libya looks like. A country that had a GDP of some hundreds of billion euros by 2012 and was one of the key countries and the richest countries on the African continent. Not getting into what was the state's arrangement, not getting into absolutely any political, economic and other capacities of the country, I want to make a parallel with what is happening in the 21st century today on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Your Honor, look at the statement, look at the tweet of a member of that shameful Gilas alliance, and the shameful oligarchal corporations, who says, "Andrey, Danilo, found in a shah like Gaddafi." Look, this whole world, this whole Serbia has to and should see. They're human rights fighters. They're freedom fighters. These are environmentalists and environmentalists. These are the people who are trying to lead those who want this country to stop, who want traffic in Serbia to stop, that factories stop and that clearly Serbia does not have or disappear, that this is their common goal. How can you qualify someone who wishes and who says today that the brother and son of the President of the Republic should end up as the man who ended up in the worst and most terrible torments, whatever he did. It is no longer legitimateisation and their call, an open call to Ukrainian scenarios, which they wished for and, unfortunately, they still wish for here in Serbia. This is the call and this man, since he often wears a megaphone, Mr. Martinovic, and we all know that the megaphone is Dragan Gilas, that it's the megaphone of those others who won't say this publicly, but they're pushing him out to say what they think. This boycott opposition, these oligarchs who want to take over the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who want to destroy this country again, that's their policy, so that the son and brother of the President of the Republic find themselves in this situation and end up as the man who ended up most brutally and in the wildest way in Libya nine years ago and who, we can think of it whatever we want, has managed to make the country a serious, social state with a very good health, education system in which everyone had three meals a day, in which they could all go to school for free and in which they could all live from their work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, here's what kind of people we're dealing with, and as disgusting as what I just said and quoted today, it might not be bad for the people of Serbia to see once again who wants to come to power, who wants to eliminate Alexander Vukic and who wants Serbia to stop. In no other way can I interpret this fact that in the 21st century, when we talk about the free flow of goods, people and capital, when we talk about the EU as one of our kind of imperatives, the possibility of making more money, that we have better social, and at the end, ecological and all other rights, the rights to education and to achieve one high level of standard in all areas of social life, we in Serbia today have a situation that we have 7.5% of GDP growth, that today in Serbia everyone can be employed, that everyone can live with honor and dignity from their work and, on the other hand, people who are just calling this Libyan scenario, who are blocking the vessel of our country's growth and development – highways, railways and all that represents the personification of development and everything that Alexander Vukic and our party have done with pride in the previous seven years: the network of railways, opportunities for new factories, opportunities for new investment, for this country to be better than the ability to be more able to be a dream for us to be. Maybe it's a good thing this happened today and that the citizens of Serbia can see who wants in an aggressive and aggressive way, by causing some bloodshed, the incidents to come to power here. They are not interested in parliamentary, presidential elections, or elections in the city of Belgrade. Of course, they are aware that Alexander Vukic can't win free and democratic elections. They are aware that Serbian citizens only want what they own, want jobs, want jobs for their children, for their grandchildren, they want social justice, the Honorable President, they want everyone to have equal opportunities and opportunities to start their own jobs, to develop entrepreneurship in this country, to develop our market economy and to make full use of all the resources this country has. Just at a time when Aleksandar Vukic has built up all of the capacities and capacities of this country that we have to make the most of it, when we become champions in many areas of social life, there is the formation of this so-called. The transversals between foreign power centers, oligarchs, people who raided here and participated in robbery privatisations between 2000 and 2012 and some people quacking a politician who would probably bomb us again and see us out of here probably bombed, as this martyr Gaddafi did nine years ago in his hometown. Is that their policy? Is that their platform, Mr. Dacic? Did any of them mention previous months of dialogue with Pristina, the PDO, a proposal for a platform for resolving KIM issues? Have any of them said in the past few days about the appointment of a special envoy, Prime Minister of Great Britain, General Fitch, who will be in charge of the Western Balkans? Imagine, Great Britain has appointed a general who until last year was head of the NATO Military Committee and for many years has been head of the United Kingdom Army General Staff. Did they mention in the past few months the high representative in BiH? Did they mention Republika Srpska? Did they mention anything to help Serbia defend its vital national interests? Did they help this country in any way? I think we should talk about it every day, and I think we're absolutely right about what they do every day. My esteemed colleagues have clearly defined and made clear in previous speeches what their goals are and who their helpers are, who their allies are. Their allies are not Serbian friends. Their allies are down in Pristina's interim institutions that break into Serb houses in northern Kosovo with long pipes. Their allies are in the United States, those who write letters to the American president and memos and complain about Telecom and Pink TV as if they've ever heard and know what Pink is and what Telecom is and what's absolutely happening here in the Republic of Serbia. This is an invitation to all those who are patriotically targeted at all those people who want us as President Vukic and he defined it at 10 points for our party's future and visions for our party's future to lead an independent policy, but to build a culture of dialogue, but to build a culture of dialogue with those who think well of this country, who want to protect and who want us to do something as well as a party that is in power to say -- yes, this is good, this is a national interest, not that in every way they try to bring down that party and that man who represents a personification of the success and independence of this country. Of course, we as SNS, as the majority in this House and our parliamentary group will continue to fight as hard as in previous years to support our president, to support our political platform that aims to strengthen our country, strengthen the future of our children and all that we have promised and fulfilled during these seven years, as far as we are in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11398	Thank you. The word is Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11399	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished minister, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, distinguished ministry representatives, fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratic state and one of my colleagues at the beginning of today's talks said that we have an equal chance society. The government of equal opportunities and so should be, but I would like us to be a society of equal opportunities and to be a democratic state when it comes to the protection of human rights and fundamental rights of all families living in Serbia's territory. Why am I saying this? Today, another shameful one, and for me, the most painful and worst attack lately directed to members of the family of Serbian and SNS President Alexander Vukic. This tweet by the chairman of the Executive Board of DS Srdjan Milivojevic, I am sorry to have to repeat it, and this has already been pointed out by my colleagues Zoran Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Srdjan Milivojevic wrote – Andrej and Danilo found in a chess cart by Gaddafi. A normal man, a normal man would never think of anything like this, let alone put it on social networks, let alone put it on social networks and publicly comment on it and boast about it if it deals with serious politics. This is the least worded monster, mental, and sick. I have no say in how to condemn this, but I therefore expect the competent state institutions in the event of these last shameful threats to the brother of the President of the Republic and the older son of the President of the Republic that both Srdjan Milivojevic and all those who swindle this shameful tweet published on Srdjan Milivojevic's Twitter account will comply with the law. Is Serbia a society of equal opportunities that anyone can wish in the worst possible way to threaten members of the family of the President of the Republic? If someone dared from the ruling coalition to give criticism or to call someone from the opposition who threatens and tells them he's a bastard or a scum, he would be convicted both publicly and publicly by NGOs and various trustees. When someone wants to die to the nearest members of the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia and wants to end up brutally murdered as Gaddafi, it doesn't react. There is a reaction between my fellow Members of Parliament and certain state officials, but let's see how most media and competent institutions and these various human rights fighters will react. Even European Parliament MP Viola von Kramon, who is known for her anti-Serbian performance, wrote a shameful tweet after meeting with Prime Minister Grigori, and I'm surprised she just met with him because we both know the opinion of Bishop Gligori and President Alexander Vukic and about strengthening Serbia, but I'm not advertising him here right now, even Viola von Kramon erased her shameful tweet, her shameful anti-Serbian tweet that there is no SPC. But that's why Srdjan Milivojevic and his comrades and supporters of Gilas' policy, not only haven't deleted this tweet yet, but they're proud of this tweet. They're proud of calling for the murder of the president's brother and son. I expect reactions from the International Community. Aman, people say this about those who are involved in politics, those who were in power from 2000 to 2012, those who, together with Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic and Šolako, are looking to return to power again. We here have the hysteria of the opposition's work gathered around Dragan Gilas, they use all the means they can and threaten the safety of the family of the president of the Republic and threaten the safety of the president of the Republic and threaten the safety of most citizens. So, look what the fake environmentalists did on Saturday? The president said there were 31,000 citizens in total in all the protests, of which it seems to me in Belgrade about 8,000, about 4.150 on the highway section of Gazela and Sava Center. It is likely that a number of citizens have found themselves there by chance, who are not yet clear what the intentions of false environmentalists and Đilas have been and probably that part of the citizens have been manipulated, but the way their comrades acted, and we have seen, there are lawyers Bozo Preljević and Đilas and that Bulatovic and those various nicknames and Marinika Tepic, they did not allow, and you are Mrs. Minister and Professor of the Medical Faculty and a respected medical worker, did not allow ambulances to pass. You want me to tell you how many patients didn't get to the hospital during the blockade on Saturday, how many lives the citizens were at risk, how many pregnant women didn't get to the doctor's appointment, how many pensioners didn't get to the emergency room and how many kids and their parents didn't get to their homes, but they froze for hours until they got there. Why? Because these Protestants don't allow, they show force. These were all in total with the citizens and passersby 4.150, and a week earlier, we from SNS were in and around Arena, about 55,000. So the minority of the minority wants to harass Serbia. The minority is harassing Serbia. The minority wants to block highways, block Serbia, block businesses, and their political leaders want to kill, they want blood on the streets. Well, it won't work. And why is that? Because I trust the state institutions, I rely on the people's will on April 3rd, the people will say theirs in the elections. I am convinced that the people will punish this murderous and shameful policy of Dragan Gilas, Milivojevic and their supporters. Why? Because the people want results. The people don't want a hate speech. They had their chance by 2012. What did they do? They took hundreds of millions of euros from Serbian citizens, destroyed both the economy and Serbia's military, destroyed everything possible. They brought the fate of Kosovo and Metohija into question. They bonded with Albanian lobbyists, not only did we have the withdrawals of Kosovo's and Metohija's recognitions, but during the yellow government we had on the annual level, dozens of new recognitions of the non-existent state of Kosovo, the illegal, false, the state of Kosovo. Now they're upset. Why? Serbia never strengthens in its history, never a better foreign policy in a newer history. As for other branches, businesses, health, economies, traffic and infrastructure, buildings, serious results. That bothers you. Who's that bothering? It bothers these thieves in Serbia, these tycoons who would like to return to power again, to kidnap millions of Serbian citizens. That bothers Albanian lobbyists. That's what bothers regional power centers. This bothers individual foreign intelligence services, because they all have one interest together, it's weak Serbia. And what stands in the way of Serbia's weakness stands for them, led by Alexander Vukić, and they are now nervous. It's December. It's winter. It's cold. Few will make tension in March of the month, try again some lunatics to make demonstrations and attacks, and will be from their comfortable chairs and their offices "Multicom" and other firms, will be brave these mafia keyboards, will be brave through these Twitter warrants, Instagram and Facebook. Well, they make a threat every day. Well, they're on the Instagram account today, but I'm the least important in that story, but even I'm being referred threats -- coal lies in the bathtub, it turns on a hairdryer or toaster, and it kills itself, it dies. Now, these are Dragan Gilas's fellow Members, and these comments are read by members of our families, but that's funny how much they attack us from the SNS, how much they attack the president. Several thousand times more attacks against President Alexander Vukic and his family than all of us together from the ruling coalition. I only admire our president, not because he is the head of state and our party, but because he has the strength to fight day by day to make Serbia stronger, even stronger, and every day he is brutally insulted and attacked by members of his family, with a weak or unresponsive state institutions and the international community, and we are fighting here. We fight here because we have to fight, not because we are paid to fight in parliament, but because we feel that we should fight, because we feel Serbia as our country, because it is. Our Serbia needs to be loved, our Serbia needs to be strengthened, the laws and agreements should be passed and Serbia should be stronger from month to month. So Serbia should not be blocked, which is part of the opposition. Serbia should not be destroyed as Gilas and parliamentarians did by 2012. Serbia should be praised everywhere and fought against various Albanian, tycoon and other lobbies. We need to strengthen our country, we have no others, and that bothers us. Who's bothering me? Opponents and Alexander Vukic, opponents from the SNS and our ruling coalition, opponents of Serbia, opponents of most Serbian citizens no matter what religion and nation they belonged to and what political commitment they were. Therefore, I trust in our people, that our people will understand who they are and who we are. There is no division into two Serbias, one is Serbia, and most Serbia is for what is normal, and it is normal to strengthen Serbia because of the future of our children, and this minority minority and their leaders will continue to harass most people with such sick threats and mental and monstrous activities. But fortunately, there is a people that always recognizes the truth, and on us people's MPs, it is always for the national tribunals to point to what is good and what is bad. What is bad are these shameful threats, and what is good is all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic do. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11400	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11401	Thank you, Chairman. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will continue in the spirit of what my dear friend Ugljesa Mrdic said, and it is primarily about the development of Serbia and everything that happens negatively for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it comes from a tycoon mob clan that wants to take over power in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to return Serbia where it does not belong. To return back to 2000 at the time of the collapse, at the time of the conflict and all that brings the quality of life to our citizens. Full support from fellow Ugljes and all promoters who receive threats on a daily basis, and of course the greatest support for our President, Alexander Vukic, who has been targeted for many years that those living in Serbia who are minority Serbia, as well as those who are outside Serbia and who want to change the current situation in our country's space. Today we have three very important agreements, three very important laws and they primarily refer to the better quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to economic development, to the further integration of the Republic of Serbia with the world, but also to the new construction of gasification in our country's space. As for the agreement between Serbia and Mongolia, I would like first of all to say that it is an agreement with one country that is friendly, which has three million inhabitants, which has not recognised KIM as a false state, which is developing from year to year, but relations between the two countries are good, but they can be much better, and this agreement should first and foremost confirm the strengthening of these economic ties between the two countries, between the two peoples. In the previous period, we signed several agreements with the Republic of Mongolia, and these are mainly agreements related to cultural and scientific co-operation, support in the area of the economy, etc., and in 2013, we abolished visas between the two countries. What is good is the fact that a special commission is being formed that will monitor economic co-operation between the two countries and make one special contribution to increase it to one higher level. Last year, we exported about 370,000 euros in value of goods to Mongolia, and imports were symbolic 2,000 euros. Through this agreement, we have one special basis for developing economic co-operation, and today Serbia is stronger, today Serbia has more food, today Serbia has more industrial products, and certainly it will bring certain benefits for both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for our economy. As far as the patent bill is concerned, I would like first of all to point out that this amendment concerns the harmonisation of the existing law with the law and the legal legislation of the EU, but also to remove certain anomalies, the shortcomings that are in the current law and above all aim to encourage the drug industry in our country's space, to extend the list of those products that can be presented as patents and to classify themselves in a special way the certification of patents and that those who submit patents can now and in electronic form. What I have been able to see since 2010, reading the material, unfortunately, has reduced the number of patents in our country's space, both domestic and foreign, and I believe that these proposals made in the new patent law will further contribute to the regulation of this area in a more specific and quality way. What I particularly place an accent on is a loan contract to strengthen the transport capacity of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and if anything this Assembly will be recognised for is the fact that we have passed the largest number of laws in two areas. The first area refers to the fight against the pandemic, where we built hospitals, where we financially helped the citizens and the economy, that this period of pandemics would be overcome as painlessly as possible, and the second set of laws related to the construction of infrastructure. In Serbia, highways, railways are being built today, gas pipelines are being built in Serbia today. Why are the pipelines important? According to data we had a few months ago to discuss here, and it is related to energy consumption, which was given by the Energy Agency, electricity consumption increased by 2.8% in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Gas consumption increased by 6.7%. In households alone, nearly 20% have increased natural gas consumption. According to the 2025 strategy, electricity consumption is also going to increase as it says enough that we need to restore our sources, that we need to rebuild our power plants and that we need to deal with the energy sector in a special way, because the use of natural gas is really getting more and more important. This is important because we will use gas as an economically favourable fuel and more environmentally acceptable. We here in the Serbian Parliament have adopted several documents where we have helped, to say, in some ways to gass the Republic of Serbia. We supported the gasification of the Borski and Zajecar County, the value of the project is 66m euros, a project covering more than 200 000 inhabitants. Then, we supported the Leskovac-Vranje development pipeline, project 28m euros. Then, the gasification of the Kolubar district, then the expansion of the pipeline at the Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica route, project 75m euros. Then, the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgarian border gas interconnector. These are all projects that have a direct impact on the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that in March 2021, our production in industry is 6.1% higher than in the period 2020, which is enough to say that the Republic of Serbia and during the pandemic have growth in industrial production. The proposed agreement on gasification of the Zlatibor County is about 40m euros, and it is very important that the Zlatibor County also gets gas, that the economy is further strengthened and that the area that records the surplus in the trade exchange is further strengthened through gasification. Of course, it will affect the quality of life of all citizens of this county, especially Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Sjenica. These are municipalities where the population is mostly reduced, where the economy is not developed and that gasification will have a positive impact on them as well. I would also like to remind myself that the Assembly has passed seven laws in the field of environmental protection, four laws in the field of energy, and thus made it clear that the current government wants to address environmental problems. On the other hand, we have opposition and we see how they want to solve environmental problems. Today they block roads, block traffic, today they call for violence. In a daily list of "Today", a certain Savo Manojlovic, director of the organisation, imagine an organisation, so there is a director – go, change, says a referendum block is possible. I ask the question, who is it today that has the right to block the future referendum? That some people appear in front of polling stations, blocking life, blocking the right of someone to decide their fate. Today, the opposition in Serbia is conducting violence, and it was best shown at the protest organised on the day on which the SNS organised a magnificent gathering in Belgrade when a certain Dragan Milovanovic from Sapac, according to Gilas' media, a hero of the protest in Sapac, said, "I've been caught by a spoon of bangers, it's dark on my eyes." The question is, why is a man who's on foot, a traffic participant, what's he doing in a car accident, and how's that got him hooked up to a spoon? He goes on to say - I had no intention of hitting anyone, but to stop the machine. Imagine what a lie that is, and all Serbian citizens have had the opportunity to see a man, a certain Dragan Milovanovic, called Black, who has repeatedly hit a young man on a sandbager with fists and inflicted serious injuries on him. It is the Serbia that wants to come to power through violence. Today, the opposition in Serbia draws a target on our president's head, his family, all of us who support the SNS. Unfortunately, our Serbian Orthodox Church was also attacked. Today, they say there is political polarisation in Serbia. We in SNS say there is no, polarisation exists when the power ratio is 50-50, 60-40%, and today most Serbia supports Alexander Vukic and SNS in the fight for change, for a better life. Today, a decent, responsible Serbia does not block traffic, and contrary to us there are those who want to bring chaos to the streets of both Belgrade and other towns of Serbia, to drop blood, to stop investment, because it has never happened in the previous 30 years as many multilateral systems in our country, that someone who is against the authorities in their mythinses develops a transparent – stop industrialisation of Serbia, stop investors. It's like when investors come to Serbia, as domestic or foreign, they don't hire people, as if they don't fill the budget. That never happened. When I talk about these fake environmentalists, I need to talk about people who are ready for anything, to block roads, to make such roadblocks that, not only dozens and hundreds, but thousands of cars, buses will be blocked on traffic cars, bridges, torches. Unfortunately, we had a chance to see that they even set fire to a citizen's car here in Belgrade where they poured gasoline and set fire to the car of a man they disagree with. That they leave garbage in the middle of the road, and those blockades cost the Republic of Serbia over a million euros per day. Serbia had the opportunity to see who was responsible, and who was acting in a way to bring everything down and leave chaos behind. Serbia will give the best answer in the April 3rd elections when I am convinced it will choose the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11402	Before I give my word to the next honourable MP, Marijana Risticevic, let me confirm the mandate of the MP. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to allow his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ratko Nikolic, elected from the IVICA DACIC's Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), Unique Serbia (JS) – Dragan Markovic Palma". On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ratko Nikolic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. I call upon you to repeat after me the text of the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on your election as MP and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Since, by chance, I know the gentleman, just to remind you that he is the first captain of the Serbian handball team and three times the best brewer in the world. Congratulations! We're continuing our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11403	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I spoke yesterday, I said, among other things, that these road robbers from Gazela, off the highways, could easily grow from blockers to locators. Because it's a small distance they want to travel. But there's been an interesting case. The man who threatened the Wolf family with the fate of Gaddafi became a blocker from the locator. This is the opposite case. It's about Srdjan Milivojevic. Here, there's a short path between the locator and the blocker. He probably has a very keen desire to become a locator again. Let me remind you that this is a man who, during the NATO Pact's aggression, is otherwise a Kruševljan, very close to Kosovo and Metohija, did not give a gun. So he wasn't hired in armed units, they weren't giving him the gun, they were giving him the shovel. They let him clean up the ruins, and they couldn't give him the gun because they didn't know which side they were going to shoot. Ladies and gentlemen, he then went to the mountain rescue service. If you remember Arthur Tucker, the famous Olympic man who got lost on the mountain. Usually when someone is lost in winter conditions, a charlain is usually sent, but Tadic's authority has sent Srdjan Milivojevic, better known as Djeki. What happened? Of course, Arthur Taker didn't find whoever was looking for him, no wonder how he ended up, but they found him after a few months, and they took it out. So since he died in harsh winter conditions, because Srdjan Milivojevic can't find anything, but it's not sure he didn't get it, because a man was found after a few months, he died of freezing, but he was harvested. Now, that's the person who's threatening. I don't want to talk about those burgers when he was selling, so he poisoned a quarter of the Krusheves. It's a very sweet, sweet, cuddly person, it's a famous locator, now an even more famous blocker. I still think that by law enforcement should be removed from the highway by law enforcement. So it's the original patent that I would apply. In doing so, I would call on the Slovenian police, their representative, to invite European police representatives, to be my consultants, to be in Vulin's place, and to tell us how they handle roadblocks in their countries, to pass on those experiences and to do what all European countries are doing. So I think everyone has the right to be dissatisfied, even those who work least, etc., but no one can express their dissatisfaction on international roads and on bridges. Especially not on bridges, because there is a very high risk, because all the bridges, as far as we know, we who served the army, are forbidden to walk, to keep too long, etc., it is a risk to build the bridge itself, etc. I think it's time to think about, as I said, limiting this kind of protest by law and getting rid of it on the surfaces where it's allowed. Well, when it wasn't reported, we kind of let it go. Because we now have cases that unregistered NGOs, or unregistered political parties that are actually NGOs, or I would call it anti-government organisations, unregistered assemblies blocking highways, and perhaps unregistered pirated media outlets registered in Luxembourg. I think it's time, because I don't know what the next station is that they can do, that such an obstacle is removed from the path, that our laws predict it. Also, I urge the judiciary to apply its patent and apply Article 133. A criminal code, that is, one that prevents freedom of movement or significantly interferes with prisons for up to a year. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, they are the owners of their freedom, but they are not the owners of our freedom. And to warn these "Land Watch", since it has a "River Watch" organization that finances them, river keepers, or I don't know how it's already being translated, from Austria, which has 4500 power plants, where our people want electricity, but they don't want power plants, they don't want power plants, they don't want nuclear power plants, they don't want wind parks, they don't want electricity. Not lithium, but they want cell phones, laptops. They want them and electric cars, but they don't want to be produced in Serbia, not to interfere with perhaps the German car industry of the future. Anyway, let me tell them what the biggest polluter on the planet is. Those who stand up for my fields, for the peasant fields, those who have met the final field in Sundays, to tell them that agriculture is not so ecologically safe. Intensive agricultural production is the largest environmental pollutant on the planet. Do they know, all MPs know, and they seem to know absolutely nothing, that agricultural production, only livestock in agricultural production, pollutes the environment, or affects the glass garden more than any means of transport on the planet? One car emits 2.7 tons of carbon dioxide annually, and one cow, when I have to say, emits four tons of carbon dioxide over the year. So, with 400 million tons of meat being produced in the world, so now you're multiplying it times four throats and you're going to get about four billion tons of carbon dioxide that emits cows. So, livestock farming significantly pollutes the environment, and besides carbon dioxide, it goes to methane, which has a particular effect on the greenhouse effect. Also, I have to warn them that intensive agricultural production requires, and I do, the use of mineral fertilisers that and how they affect soil erosion, because it is no longer sustainable agriculture, it is intensive agricultural production and that, for example, in Europe several percent of every year, land is not sown at all, but it is incinerated, because this land has been eroded and is no longer used and that I warn them specifically about pesticides. Only less than 10% of pesticides fall on the plant when spraying, which we do several times a year, and everything else goes into water, air, land, which has a long-term impact on the quality of the earth, on the quality of air, on the quality of water, and are particularly dangerous because of mineral fertilisers nitrites. Nitrates that turn into nitrates and it's particularly dangerous, we in Vojvodina have very poor water quality and it's dangerous for people. I'm one of those guys who says we need a healthy plant, healthy land. From healthy land you get to a healthy plant, healthy plants need healthy cattle, and healthy cattle give you healthy food from healthy plants and healthy people. Do those who have demonstrated know, and I have to, since I'm dealing with it, warn them how many people, by eating meat, how much those who have walked, say, five kilometers. If you drive a car five kilometers to "Gazale" and a "Gazela" you emit 900 grams of carbon dioxide, but if you walk and eat 100 grams to make up for 150 calories, that's a total of 3.6 kilograms of carbon dioxide, which means that when you walk four times as much carbon dioxide, you're jeopardizing the environment, than a moving car, it spends four times less carbon dioxide, it emits less than five kilometers as it travels. So more pedestrians can affect the environment than cars. But, my God, it's these great guards who became overnight environmentalists, of course they don't know. They're mostly advocating the country where they finance themselves. Adenauer, so he donates well there, a company that is directly opposed to Rio Tintu and of course the Germans care that we can produce lithium, but in their favor, that they use our lithium in car production, not just their lithium reserves. They probably took a look at lithium reserves that are 10% of the world's total. Why don't we use all the Chinese patents and let's say somewhere in Vojvodina, India, Old Paz make a nice car factory that's going to be under the roof one million square meters and something more and give me cars, since the German car industry has been coughing lately, because the Chinese don't deliver enough parts, it's mostly chips, etc. It's about complex parts that are necessary technologically for a car to be manufactured, without it. So, since the Chinese are mastering all of this, why don't we and the Chinese make a car factory, say Inji, Stara Paz, Ruma and participate in the automotive industry in Europe, up to four, five years and my god's income there is 10, 12 billion. But there have been environmentalists who instead of being on Serbia's side, they are on the side of those who give them fat allowancees, but it's so petty against what we can lose. So many mistakes in allegedly protecting the environment. I need these actors who act on Sundays, to convince them somehow to get to my fields, it's closer to them, it's next to the highway, they can take a look at the highway, they can look at the highway, they want to block the highway, they can pick out the hoard, they can see how many pesticides, how much fertilizers affect the environment, and how much agriculture is not a big substitute to dig up lithium, because agriculture also threatens the environment. It's the world's largest polluter. Every business activity, every man that exists affects the environment. It is up to us that the car factory that we build and the lithium we exploit work on the largest protection rules, etc., which apply to the protection of the environment. To remind those, Mr. Martinovic, who remembered, there are various former yellow members of the regime, here are now threatening, like Jackie, who was not allowed to give the gun, because they did not know which side he was going to shoot, he could not find the Taker he was looking for. No wonder Tucker died. To remind them that they replaced the president of the Indji Municipality's assembly, it was my smallness in 2007, in the Water Administration building. They probably wanted it to be ecologically clean. I told them on that occasion, I haven't given up on it yet, but you've replaced me at the Water Administration, and I'm going to let you through the sewers, i.e. members of the former regime. I'm still not giving it up, because after letting it go, they're as much as I can see are some derivatives that we have to take care of. Why am I saying this? I've been replaced to build a recycling plant, remember, to build a kilometer of air line in India, to make a factory for recycling lead batteries that have been expelled from Bulgaria, and polluters pay the most for land. Agricultural land was taken from a common agricultural cooperative, translated into one of these local politicians, and then they wanted to sell it to a polluter, and they had a problem because they had drinking water wells in India. They built and built a power plant, a lead battery recycling plant that still exists today. It's very hard to get rid of it now. They got the study in a falsified way because they listed another plot they were looking for study for, say, 3001 and then when they got the environmental impact study, they said – technical error is a plot of 3100, so they tried to cheat. Since my smallness, the president of the assembly rebelled, informed Dulic, when they saw he couldn't do it, my shift was run by a deputy. Well, then to get a study on the environmental impact, they wiped out the spatial plan at the session, the waterway, so they could get a study on the environmental impact. In such a way, they built a factory for recycling lead batteries above the well's water catch, where Indji's citizens are supplied with water. Waste water from that factory, they go, because they couldn't get into the sewers, it's regional, so if it's a threat to the fish, then people in the Danube will see it, they've done it behind the canal factory, they're doing a synaptic channel, where the waste water goes, it's a ditch, where waste water from the factory, these sulfates, as it's already called, are going from the recycling of lead batteries directly into a spring canal above the water supply. When Indjia will pay for that jesic mess, which by the way, did not stay in India. His name was - because I love Indjia, but as soon as he lost power, he and his family moved out of India because he knows what he did with the polluters. Also, they brought in a zinc plant that is likely to be environmental pollutants, it has energogreen waste processing and is all involved in Srdjan Đuric, who was an official, whom Aleksandra Drecun, the secretary of Tadic's cabinet, has appointed at Dulic to assess what threatens the environment and so on. A man now deals with recycling, and I guess you realize that he was on the side of those who pollute the environment. So that's what they were doing, and today they raised their heads and that's why my message is still, they did replace me at the Water Administration, but I haven't let you through the sewer yet, but I'm not giving it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11404	Thank you. Next is the People's Messenger, Adam Schucalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11405	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Kisic Tepavcevic, honourable and respected MPs, colleagues and colleagues, here are a few things, I will try to be brief in my discussion, so that I do not repeat myself. I would first of all like to refer to item 7 of today's agenda, which is the proposal for a law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa AD Belgrade and Raiffeisen Bank of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the public company "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on Credit for the Strengthening Transport Capacity of Gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia. My opinion is that gasification is one of the most significant not only infrastructure ventures in the development of the Republic of Serbia, but above all, as we know, that by developing this infrastructure we are creating key preconditions for increased foreign investment and domestic investment, and, let me say, retaining the population in areas where we are now going to work to expand Serbia's gasification network. However, what I would particularly like to point out today is that this development of infrastructure related to the gasification of the Republic of Serbia is also important for my native regions, for Republika Srpska, and for that arm that is heading towards Republika Srpska. It is extremely important that most of Republika Srpska is finally being gassed, and we know, here, in the past time when we have had this crisis about the purchase of all gas energy, how important Serbia is the stability factor in terms of gas supply and in the region, and this assistance in terms of support or, let me say, what we borrowed in this case to Sarajevo that remained practically that day without gas, how important it is not only for the Republic of Serbia but also for the other entity, the Federation of BiH. This news in terms of the expansion of gas-related infrastructure, especially since we are talking about border areas close to BiH and close, that this is a news that should be enjoyed not only by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also by BiH in both entities, which is why I am happy as well. In this context, when I am to share good news, I will take this opportunity and in two minutes to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mayor Zoran Radojicic, who was in Banja Luka on 22 April this year, when the President of the Republic of Serbia, by the will of all political parties, was declared the citizen of Banja Luka and received the award of "The Key of the City of Banja Luka", that on that day he had a conversation with the leadership of Republika Srpska, and above all with the mayor of Belgrade, and afterwards, a bilateral meeting between the mayors of Belgrade and the mayor of Banja Luka, promised certain assistance in developing key infrastructure facilities, but also those facilities that were of public importance in terms of building a new school, a new park and a new athletic trail, namely, since Banja Luka, unfortunately, remained without athletic routes, since FK Borac played in Europe this year, so that he had to be a taleta. Now Banja Luka, a well-known sports city, has this kind of need and through the mayor of Banja Luka and the application to the President of the Republic, I have to inform the public and the Republic of Serbia and I get to know you that on Monday at the expense of the city of Banja Luka, it will also become a budget item in the city of Banja Luka, a threem-euro stand to be used to building these three capital projects, building a new elementary school in Ada, a new athletic stadium and a new park. I have information that it is out of gratitude that all Banja Lukans who have called me in many cases these days and thanked the President of the Republic and the Mayor of Belgrade, since, officially, Belgrade has transferred funds to the expense of the city of Banja Luka, that these three extremely important projects will have a name that will be symbolically linked to the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we also confirm that the trend that the Republic of Serbia has been working towards all local governments in Republika Srpska and the Federation, there are other types of indirect assistance via ours, practically one of the most important national companies, that is "Telecom" Serbia, which has its own firm -- "Telecom" of Republika Srpska, was donated yesterday by certain families who returned there. There is always the need to help from the Republic of Serbia, but it also invests in extremely important infrastructure projects to build a traffic station. We know that the short highway that will go from Kuzmin to Bijeljina that will go through the Republic of Serbia, or BiH, will be at the end of most, over 80%, financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, at this time, we must point out once again, will be funded by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so this is also the gratitude of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, by their zealous relationship and respect for their tax and all other obligations, contributions, etc., that we have filled the budget that has grown this much and that we have been able to consider here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in recent weeks and that we have adopted. I wouldn't list other significant projects, but, in any case, what's extremely important to point out right now is this moment, which is the new moment in all of this. Speaking of BiH, I'd like to point out one more thing. I have a habit of going through all the press, even if it's headlines. Today, I was intrigued by a title that has the daily "Alo" that says on its cover - Sarajevo's vote for Marinika. I assume it's Mrs. Tepic. Just when you get familiar with the text, you see that these days Sarajevo portals that are the striking fists of certain political furniture, particularly the Party of Democratic Action, whose president is Bakir Izetbegovic, celebrate Marinika Tepic and declare her Serbian new president, leader in Serbia, Serbia's savior, etc. I have to get to know the public this time, given that I spent a lot of time in Republika Srpska, that we also demystify this kind of story, although I am familiar with a longer period of time in the Sarajevo media, in their television stations dealing with political topics from the region, the favorite guests are Marinika Tepic, Nenad Canak, Ceda Jovanovic, Boris Tadic etc., and to ask political Sarajevo, above all political Sarajevo, this normally would be Sarajevo's citizens who came here in Serbia, they gave great gratitude to Aleksandr Vukic all the time and kept sending such messages. If we are talking about political Sarajevo, then if their will is to choose who they are in Serbia, it is these individuals headed by Mrs Tepic, and if Sarajevo is going to bazaar the political scene of the Republic of Serbia and direct the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for whom they should vote in the next elections, then that is the Tepic option, as we see here. But one great truth that everyone must know, and can also learn about sources that are very relevant and very accessible, that whenever anyone from Sarajevo and the Serbian political corps supported a certain Serbian politician, it is in continuity in all elections in Republika Srpska, the Serbian politician received at least the votes. In that name, the Republic of Serbia lived, lived Republika Srpska, and let them continue on their way, we will be on our way to victory for Serbia and also for Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11406	I thank Mr. Schukal. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11407	Thank you, Your Honor. I think today's draft laws are of great importance to our country's economy and will certainly benefit from the benefits of the laws we are discussing today. When we talk about it, I want to take the opportunity to agree with one of the fellow MPs who said that maybe sometimes so relaxed and now, and get used to new investments, opening new factories, somehow we forget how many factories we've opened and how many new jobs it is. Indeed, when you look behind you almost on the Sunday level, we have a factory opening and that factory represents some new jobs. According to the data I've come up with, and I'm sure it's a number and bigger so far, President Aleksandar Vukic has opened more than 300 factories, and more than 300,000 new jobs have been opened in these factories. So 300,000 people found their jobs. I'm just telling you this as a partnership with people who claim to return to power today and represent the former regime of the Democratic Party in whose time factories shut down and when more than 500.00 people were left out of work. When we talk about the economy, we can't, not to mention the salaries that were 330 euros in 2012 in fact in 2014 when the SNS took over, while today's average salary is somewhere above 610 euros, with a tendency to continue to grow. What is very important and I want to stress this in particular is the fact that people who are in the extreme minority today, but are also extremely aggressive, and led by Dragan Gilas, are constantly trying to wash themselves and say they couldn't decide anything in that period of DS power, which is not true. Without wanting to go into any more details and list some other details, I will only give an example, that during the time when Dragan Gilas had direct responsibility for the city of Belgrade, so while he was mayor, the city of Belgrade was ruined. He left behind a billion and 200m euros in debt, but what particularly illustrates incompetence, as well as the escape of foreign investment from our capital, is the fact that in 2012 there were 559,000 employees in Belgrade, while in 2021, the official data shows that it was 738,000 people. Only from this you can see how much more attractive, desirable and better place for investment today, but also how much our country has advanced. If you add to all this the fact that unemployment at the time of the DS was over 25%, while today it is about 9%, it is clear to all how responsible SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic's policy is in this data, and how much we have advanced as a country for about seven or eight years and as a society. But what's been going on in the last few weeks, people are trying to get back at power to take advantage of their own personal gain, but also to recharge their own pockets. My colleagues talked about the protests in previous exhibitions, they also talked about roadblocks, highways, bridges and other traffic, but as I want to draw attention to the essence of all these protests again, I'm going to set out one example that's already 10 years old now, and it's going to be 11. In April 2011, in front of the House of the National Assembly, the SNS held a protest with only one request, which is early elections. There were more than 110,000 people at the rally, not one single incident was caused. The gathering was reported long before, and believe it or not, I remember it very well, then we were carried out, as the people would say, and a baby car. It's being threatened. We've been made clear where we can go. At the time, it wasn't allowed to pass to RTS, so later, because of the large number of people who were interested in going to the RTS, they let us do it. There was only one request, and these are early elections. At that time, the DS people assured us that it was a violation of democracy, beware now, and that no one has the right to protest. Today, these people who have reunited in some DS are doing everything contrary to their own words then and in the worst possible way endanger the rights of all other people who don't think like them or maybe are just apolitical. On Saturday, most likely, they will repeat those blockades and then you will see how extreme and aggressive they will be in their demands again and in their way of political action. That I do not say all of this by chance, says the fact that in the past weeks I have pointed out the need for these minorities to cause some kind of incident with extreme action and extreme rhetoric, and that because of the shed blood, I have caused greater dissatisfaction of people and for this accuse us as SNS, and directly of President Alexander Vukic, which is already a few days back in the media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, where they clearly say that every incident will be held accountable by Alexander Vukic, who is out of his mind and something simply amazing that we are able to hear from day to day. My colleagues also spoke today about the case of this phenomenon and the individual Srdjan Milivojevic, where it can be heard clearly and read the message he sends to Alexander Vukic, Andrej Vukic, Danil Vukic or Vukan Vukic. It's something that has already become a practice in their ranks, and that is that whenever the situation in their answers or in their rhetoric arises someone who will sharpen that rhetoric. Now, you've noticed, they've thrown all their cards at the protests now, but for seven days now no one has referred the threat to the family of Alexander Vukic, and that's how the practice has repeated that if it goes seven days without the threat to President Alexander Vukic, someone has to do it out of their ranks. What is particularly monstrous, my colleague Vlad Marinkovic also spoke of, citing that Andrej and Danilo were found in a shah like Gaddafi. Dear counterpart Marinkovic, this phenomenon was corrected in several tweets later, when she said he was wrong and that it was not Gaddafi, it was Saddam Hussein, but it is the same, since we all know that Saddam Hussein ended up as well. That's not the end of it. In one of the tweets, he later said that it would not help the Vucic family helicopter, because Ceausescu tried to escape by helicopter, so you know how he ended up. Citing three of these examples, it is clear to all that the message sent to us by one of the new DS leaders, and the first associate of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Marinika Tepic, with whom I will complete my presentation, has nothing else to offer the citizens of Serbia, but only the death of Aleksandar Vukic and his family. Now I wonder – will someone finally respond to these threats and an open invitation to the murder not of the president, but of the man Alexander Vukic? Will someone finally respond to the threats not to the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia and not to the brother of the president of the Republic of Serbia, but only to the people who, behold, are part of the family of Alexander Vukic? It's a pity no one's called this way to this day. We have various human rights fighters. We have people who are in certain state functions, who could deal with this issue or at least give an opinion, but they're still silent today. I am now wondering if the Vukic family and, above all, Alexander Vukic has the same human rights as all other citizens of Serbia? You'll agree there isn't. What is particularly worrying is that raising tension in society is dictated by just those who have the least support in Serbia and whom citizens definitely do not want to see again in power. I'm telling you this for the simple reason that I've been listening to the same mantra for days, which, unfortunately, no one has responded to, and that's the story of Marinika Tepic, who was repeated since a few hours ago, as regards the case in Šapec. Namely, when he was beaten up by the man who was driving the backhoe and when the man who beat him made a hero named Black, he was arrested and you remember that they were blackmailing, announcing incidents and riots if that man wasn't released. When he was released, his lawyer turned around and talked about what was going on and said the following, that people who were on the other side were using rubber hammers. As he spoke, she stood behind him with her head and her beard, Marinika Tepic. And that's what she heard, she knew at that moment, and that information about some rubber hammers first appeared there. Why am I telling you this? Marinika Tepic has been accusing it several days ago and asks how Alexander Vucic knows these hammers were rubber, when no one has ever said it anywhere, and this picture and footage that you can easily find in the news TV under the direct control of Dragan Dilas is being denied and reaffirmed that this woman is only being used for the lies. And today, as many as two weeks after the incident, she repeats it and falsely accuses President Alexander Vukic of sharing those rubber hammers and that he knows from there that they were rubber. And no one responds to these statements, and no one responds to these lies or lies. Now I wonder how far that woman can go in her lies and lies and how much longer they're willing to make these lies excuses, wouldn't President Alexander Vukic and his family have been falsely accused again and thus tried to provoke some kind of anger from the citizens? For the very end of my presentation, the respected minister, but also, I want the Serbian government to support everything President Aleksandar Vukic advocates and that we all together as one big team of our country and our Serbia create that place exactly as we all want, and that is even more beautiful, even more successful and more advanced Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11408	Thank you. The next is MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11409	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is scandalous today's tweet by Srdjan Milivojevic, and indeed calling on the fate of Muammer Gaddafi to experience this fate by Andrej and Danilo Vukic is indeed something that is terrible, and this way I call on all institutions to react, especially the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and Manchester, because if people in Serbia today are at risk of freedom and civil rights, it is certainly Alexander Vukic and his family. I am truly delighted that today most of my fellow MPs mentioned the city from which I come, namely Priboj, and in light of the announced gasification of the Zlatibor district, which is really very important for the municipality from which I come and for the neighbouring municipalities for one simple reason. For years, the bridge has been abandoned and ended, for years, the municipality has been on the verge of destruction, and the citizens have left it without any perspective. Today we see that the infrastructure is being speeded up. Very soon we will have the highway to Preljina, from Preljina to Požega, later and towards Visegrad and Kotroman, to the border with Montenegro The business and economic activities are visible. The free zone employs over 600 workers and therefore gasification is very important because it will speed up the process of industrialisation and economic recovery of Priboj and all municipalities in Zlatibor County. When it was somewhere in the 19th century when the first light bulb in Belgrade lit up, there were people who opposed it. When Milan Obrenovic announced the construction of a railway in Serbia, there were also people who opposed it, voiced different views, which is why they oppose the modernisation of Serbia. But today in Serbia, you have people who oppose Serbia's progress in all fields, but there is an obvious difference back in the 19th century that people cannot be considered evil, because they were probably less informed at the time and now that, I say, there are those who are certainly against these things only because they do not want Serbia to make further progress. You can't be against building a highway of peace in the 21st century like the highway from Nis to Drac. You cannot be against the modernisation of Serbia in all its segments. You can't be against geological research. You can't be against it when we're making wind parks and talking about how they're endangering birds. You can't be against building a mini-hydrocenter if you have over 20,000 mini-centrals across Europe. I really understand that there are people in Serbia who are concerned about the environment, the environment, but there is no one who has the exclusive right to be more or less an opponent of it. To all of us here and my children and all of you, it's very important that we have clean air and clean water and clean land. Indeed, when we look at all these events in the past few days or several weeks, we see that it is a pure political reckoning and a desire to take down Alexander Vukic's head in this way by trying to establish some colored revolutions, which we have had the opportunity to see in the past. When you see who's running these ecological protests today, everything becomes crystal clear to you. These are the same people who sold for hundreds of thousands of euros the properties in Loznica, Gornji Sundays to the company "Rio Tinto". Today, the first to be at barricades and to be at protests, who are employees of Dragan Gilas in his party, in the Multigroup. These are the same people who are calling for a violation of the Constitution and the law, and are represented as representatives of the Association for the Protection of Constitutionality and Legality. These are the same people who are members of some non-governmental organisations that declare Serbia and the Serb people genocide and who receive support and assistance from them, and they get it from those people from abroad who have proved themselves to be the great haters of Serbs and the Serb people in the past and who are also talking here today wherever they appear in Serbia, in Europe, in the European Parliament. You have Mrs. Viola von Kramon who on all her mouth and every day... There is no issue she will not report on when it comes to Serbia and the Serbian people, and when it is to be spit on by our country, so there is no SPC anymore, Serbia is genocide for her, it is acceptable for her when Albin Kurti is savage in northern Kosovo and when our people are being beaten. It's all acceptable. Indeed, if I were in the position of those she is now an ally, I would ask myself, is it normal for you to be on the same side with a woman like her? Is it normal for you to support and talk about your people the most disgusting things just for the sake of personal interest or the money you get from the side? I really think that there are very few people who believe all of this, but we have a huge responsibility from the SNS, we have received it from the citizens of Serbia. That responsibility implies that we talk absolutely to everyone and listen to all those who have some problem and I think that's how it's going to be in the future. Stability is really a key asset. Serbia is today a country that is constantly growing economically, stronger, a leader in Europe at the rate of growth and a state that builds roads, hospitals, schools and creates conditions for the better life of all our citizens. Today, Serbia is led by Alexander Vukic by a strong state that leads an independent and independent policy and has a future. It's something we'll all always fight for with all our strength. A decent Serbia wins. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11410	Thank you, Mr. Srbanovic. Next is People's Messenger Milos Bandur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11411	Chairman, just tell me how much time I have. Since we have time, then let me say something about the laws that are on the agenda today. First of all, I would like to talk about guaranteeing the loan to Serbiaagas for the gasification of the 40m-euro Zlatibor County and remind all of us and all Serbian citizens that this Assembly, somewhere in mid-June, adopted a guarantee, also to Serbia worth 169m euros in gasification of the Borski, Zajecarski, Kolubarski and Pcinj County. So what President Vukic said on January 1st this year is being realized at a full pace. I would like to point out that the budget for 2022 is one guarantee to Serbia of 180m euros for the construction of the transport network, i.e. Serbia will take credit, and the state will guarantee, as it guarantees for these loans. What is very likely is that Serbiaagas will not be able to repay the loans he has taken alone, especially as the repayment deadlines are short. It is likely to be paid by the state as in earlier cases, but it is converted into the role of the state in ownership, in the capital of the company, so there is no problem on that side. I would like to remind myself that in 2019, the Serbian government thus wrote off a billion and 200m euros to Serbia. In fact, Serbiagas was taking loans to build a network. These loans were not recovered, the banks activated state guarantees and the states settled all these obligations and then only formally at the government's session wrote off the debt i.e. It converted 1.2m euros to what it guaranteed Serbia to own the public enterprise. I must say that Serbia has indeed made great progress in the construction and transport and distribution of pipeline networks and that 70% of Serbia's households lie with the existing transport pipeline network. This means that the potential of building a distribution network in municipalities and settlements is very high. However, only 12% of households are connected to the distribution network, which means that this potential has not been fully exploited even though we are comparing ourselves with the European Union we are somewhere at 36% of the European Union's gasification, i.e. they have used that potential three times as much as we are. What I'm still trying to say about this is that "Srbigas" as the largest supplier and supplier of natural gas suppliers and as a company that has a very large 12,000km of distribution network other than 2,500km of transport network and covers 60% of gas consumption in Serbia, when it comes to households and businesses, must also take care of its liquidity. I would draw attention to some cases where the debt of certain "Srbigas" heat is converted or compensated by taking over the distribution network in the city. It is known that in 2019 in Zrenjanin, somewhere at the end of the year, Zrenjanin's heat debt to "Serbiagas" was calmed by Zrenjanin's own distribution network giving way to this public enterprise. You know, it's kind of weird to me that just as much as she owed heat is the value of a distribution network. I don't think that can be very good for each other. So there had to be some difference in resources. Fresh money is fresh money. You gave the distribution network, but who's going to pay the gas to the Russians is missing 600 million. In the end, as in earlier procedures, everything that "Srbigas" should pay Russia to move on to the Republic of Serbia and thus we have that in fact the Republic of Serbia has settled the debt of heat in Zrenjanin. I don't think that's correct, especially when it comes to cities in northern Serbia, municipalities that are most developed and that can certainly find opportunities to settle the debts of their heat. In Nis, it is the city of Nis that guarantees the work of its public enterprises and all the obligations of the City Heat in Nis. Not once we had to find a way to make sure that what City Heat owes the supplier we settle down as a city. You know, it's very nice to move 600 million to something else and local self-government to dissipate that debt. I don't think that's right, like it's wrong, and the whole "New Sad Gas" story where it's not allowed by the care of many to raise that debt to nine billion for what "New Sad Gas" has taken over from "Serbiagas" and then to solve the takeover of the company. Yes, you've taken over "New Sad Gas" and its distribution network, but where's nine billion and who's going to pay nine billion Russians for the gas delivery? A lot more bills have to be kept on that. When we in Nis had a debt of 400 million or 500 million to the supplier, meetings were immediately called. We're asking for a dynamic payment plan. The possibilities have been analysed that we can actually pay for it, and during the first break of the plan, the meetings were re-invited and discussed what to do next. So it's my objection to the "Serbigas" policy to the richest municipalities in the AP Vojvodina. It may be a coincidence that the headquarters of the company is there, and in these cases we behave a little more mildly than in some other cases. So the net net, but the gas for the money. Money is needed to simply pay off gas to suppliers abroad. Since there is not enough time to continue the discussion, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11412	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists of parliamentary groups, does anyone else want a word that is right? The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11413	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear colleagues, I know we've been working all day. I would just say in front of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants Party that we will support all these proposals and from this place I would just like to remind our citizens and all here that in the past century 114 years, more precisely in 1914, in 107 years, a low declaration was adopted where the then government of Nikola Pasic brought along with the Assembly a proposal and legislation, a declaration that Serbia is going along with Croatia and Slovenia. Was that the right move, was it a bad move for us now as a state of Serbia and as our president we are working on that the state of Serbia is working together with everyone, with all our friends, working together with our neighbours, and that is why we are going to do this proposal to the "open Balkans". Once again, thank you for your attention and great support to all and especially to our Serbian president.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-08-0.u11414	Does a representative of the government want a word? According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government. Before I set a voting day, I just want to remind you about the information you could read on the sites, about the news that the Serbian government has withdrawn the Expropriation Act, just to remind you that constitutional provisions, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot withdraw the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are awaiting the decision of the President of the Republic of Serbia whether to sign or not to sign the law and return it to the National Assembly. It's a clear constitutional procedure. Therefore, you will be informed of further progress when we get a clear notice from the president of his decision, and that means that you will be informed of some session in due time. According to Article 87(5), I hereby set Wednesday's Rules of Procedure, December 8, 2021, starting at 17:00 and 40 minutes, as a day for voting on the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 78(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Public Service Employees Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since amendments have not been made to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Public Service Employees Act in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 4. The draft law provides that this law enters into force the following day from the day of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger’. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the law and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to the vote to determine the existence of a particular reason why the law should enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by majority, that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 173, total – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the public sector wage system. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 173, total – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on the next day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". As I said earlier, this is only possible if the congregation finds that there are particularly valid reasons. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by majority, that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the public sector wage system. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 171, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on the next day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". This is only possible if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the adoption. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by majority, that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 173, total – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and unit of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill's proposal, we approach the decision on the bill. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 170, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on early entry into force, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Salary of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the Autonomous Province and the Unit of Local Self-Government. Fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since MP George Komlenski has withdrawn the amendment to Article 14. The draft law, the National Assembly, will, according to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft Law amending and supplementing the patent law as a whole. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill amending and supplementing the patent law. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement and the law governing public borrowing, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa AD Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, on the basis of a loan contract to boost the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I conclude the session, I just want to remind you that I have scheduled for Tuesday, December 14, the next session of the National Assembly with nine points of the agenda. Not to read who they are now. Whether or not there will be some session scheduled for an emergency procedure, you will be informed of that. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
