ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8515	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 277. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8516	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few important questions for all those people living in a difficult situation, who are socially threatened, who are also using Red Cross's assistance, and also the states of Serbia, in this difficult situation, when Corona is now the most important thing for these people to help. In particular, my question is directed towards the finance ministry, and it is related to the possibility, since Serbia has a large number of companies, companies doing commercial things. These are large companies, such as Idea, Delese, Dis and many others, which have their sales facilities in every municipality, not to mention in every city in Serbia. When two months before the deadline of the slave, which they sell, and that slave can be food, it can be water, they can be juices, they burn all the goods for up to two months. Because they have obligations, because they can't put her into office, or they can't put her on the market. To burn it, it's one big expense to them, and on the other hand, there's damage to the environment. There's a possibility, of course, that those goods that have two months left until the deadline, that food stuff, whether it's any product, whether it's chemistry, they could give it, as a donation, to help the socially endangered population, to the people who need it, and that would normally go through the organization. Otherwise, in Serbia, there is a Federation of Food Banks, which already works and helps people who are socially endangered, who use the help of the Red Cross and social institutions. So, my question is favoured and directed towards the Ministry of Finance, is there any possibility that VAT should be abolished for such companies, for such companies, which want goods that remain for two months until the expiry of the deadline, that they donate it, that they give it through such organisations, as I just said earlier, the Federation of Banks of Food of Serbia, to come through them to users, who are socially endangered, who use the help of folk cuisines, and there are such? On the other hand, it would be a big deal if that stuff wasn't on fire. We all know how hard it is to secure any agricultural product. All of us who do agriculture know how to get bread, any product used for food. It's a very difficult job, and tomorrow, when we get into a situation like that, it comes to a shopping store and it gets to two months before the deadline, that stuff gets burned. That is why I am informed, that a working body has been formed, by these people, such as those, are representatives of the Federation of Food Banks and NAD - where it has already entered the procedure to ask the competent Ministry of Finance, to abolish VAT, for those companies that are socially responsible, who tomorrow want and who can donate that food, through the Federation of Food Banks. Otherwise, the president of the Federation, Aleksandar Vidakovic, who had a presentation in Nis a few days ago, where they provided certain goods, these were juices, they were water, they were packages for small children, which were still within time period and they were delivered to organisations, or social centres, social centres, Red Cross and local self-governments. I can say that a large number of municipalities, in the territory and southeast of Serbia and in other parts of Serbia, need to help these people, who are socially endangered, elderly people, who have needs tomorrow, and now cannot be delivered to them. I can also say that the large quantities of this goods, which are two months until the deadline, which can be put into operation, are over 350,000 tonnes of goods in a year, is the possibility that each municipality can provide that goods for its residents, for its people living in villages, because we have a large number of our agricultural producers, who are really in a difficult situation, but they don't want to use funds, or social labour centres, or the Red Cross. Well, so we, all of us living in these municipalities, organized by the Federation of Food Banks, together with them, would ensure that these goods are not thrown away, and that normally tomorrow they have an interest, that in this difficult situation when Corona, when she sees that these people can easily exist, live and be easier for them tomorrow. Once again, I am sure that there will be an opportunity to eliminate VAT, to give the possibility to these socially responsible companies, that the goods, which remain for two months until the deadline, be given through the Federation of Food Banks, that the goods may reach our people, in our places, and not be thrown away. I am sure and trust our government, otherwise NAED is already involved and I think it will be resolved as soon as possible, for the benefit of every citizen of our country of Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8517	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8518	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Namely, the Law on Higher Education, in its Article 39, which is related to the scope of studies, says in its position of 7 that basic academic studies have between 180 and 240 Esp points. This definition is problematic for at least two reasons. The first is that the study programmes of basic academic studies can, for example, have 200 points, which is not in line with the standards for accreditation, and the second is that they leave out the word “at least”, which otherwise stands, as a provision in the other positions of this member, which refers to other levels of study, which also limits the basic principles of the Bologna Declaration and prevent students from taking additional items, in line with their interests and needs. In this sense, my question to the Ministry is – is it possible to divide this attitude into two parts, so that it is – basic academic studies for a three-year duration of at least 180 points, i.e. primary academic judges in a four-year duration of 240 points? In this way, it would avoid problematic interpretations on the one hand, and on the other hand, it would clearly define the duration of the studies to which the number of points are applied and would also respect the principles of the Bologna Declaration, where students can also make an additional number of points in their degree by their additional engagement. It should be borne in mind that three-year and four-year studies are essentially two different levels of study, followed by different titles, so people who complete three-year studies have 180 points of the title of the lawyer, economists, philologists and the like, while the one who finishes four-year studies has 240 points, achieves a significantly higher calling and recognition, as the specifics are added – graduates, and it also provides additional opportunities for employment but also marks and possession of some more basic and higher knowledge, but also more advanced competences, in which the fact and essence of the distinction of these two levels of studies is. There is also an important role in making this difference in passing towards master studies themselves after completing studies, which are in line with the duration of basic academic studies must take one or two years to reach the threshold of five years of study and 300 points for completed master academic studies. All of the above indicates that there is a big difference, whether studies last three or four years, or whether they are 180 or 240 points. I think it is important to make a clear distinction in the Law on Higher Education and that this way would clearly be defined if it were not possible to make such a programme of basic academic studies which, for example, will bear 200 or 220 points, because the current legal solution does not allow this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8519	Thank you. The word is Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8520	Dear Vice-President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I will refer the questions to the Ministry of Finance and Public Procurement, which, within its jurisdiction, proposes measures to improve the public procurement system, provide professional assistance to the contracting authorities and bidders, contributes to the creation of conditions for economic, efficient and transparent use of public funds in the procurement process. Public procurement is a significant instrument for the development of modern states, as institutions provide objective and transparent procurement of goods, services and works with the promotion of responsible spending of budgets. Since significant public spending is done through a public procurement system, only a functional procurement system ensures efficient spending of taxpayers' money. The most important key principles that depend on the efficiency of public procurement are the economic and efficiency of the use of public funds, the provision of competition and transparency. Public procurement has taken great importance in these days, both at national and international level. They represent a significant market in the European Union. According to the European Commission, the total value of public procurement is 14% of the Union's GDP. According to data from the annual Report of the Public Procurement Office in 2019, 122,066 contracts of 441 billion dinars were completed following the public procurement procedures carried out in 2019, and in 2020, 135,022 contracts of a total value of 376 billion dinars. The participation of completed contracts in GDP in 2019 was 8.14% and 6,88% in 2020. The decline in participation in 2020 is explained by an increase in the number of exceptions to the application of the new law, which has been in force since 1 July 2020, as well as, unfortunately, the pandemics still present. Research carried out in relation to public procurement has shown that there is only one offer in most proceedings, in over 55% of cases that the lowest price offered is the only criterion in 90% of cases, which is very likely to put quality in the second plan, while in the surrounding countries is not such practice. Also, reports by the State Auditing Institution speak of a number of irregularities related to the public procurement procedures implemented. My question is what is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Public Procurement regarding the above mentioned data and whether there is room and way to improve the public procurement system in order to further encourage competition, efficiency and economic spending of public funds and what is extremely important, to improve the quality of the goods and services obtained, which is certainly the stated objectives that should be achieved by applying the law on public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8521	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8522	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, would ask the ministry of care for the village, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The "500 cooperatives in the 500 villages of Serbia" project began in 2017, becoming a castle for the development of the village, as well as for the entire agricultural regions throughout Serbia, as it awakened awareness among farmers that only the united could move forward. This programme has shown that strengthening cooperatives is a successful model for the progress of small agricultural holdings, which are easier to survive and have a chance to reach the safe placement of products, subsidies of favourable loans for investment in production. In addition to this and in the developed world, the popular form of organisation speaks the number of as many as 900 newly established cooperatives in Serbia from 2017 to today, as well as the fact that 152 cooperatives have received grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget so far. With full support from the National Team for the Revival of the Village of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia invested 2.2 billion dinars in the development of cooperatives over the past four years. Cooperatives become carriers of rural and regional development. More and more of these cooperatives are being driven and final production, which is very important, because by producing finished products not only through the sale of raw materials we can create conditions for serious profits and exports. The resuscitation and rescue of the village, especially in the edgeless less populated areas of Serbia, is the national and universal priority of the general social, superpolitical, supranational task behind which the most institutions and the largest authority of the country, notably the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, but also all the largest traditional religious communities in Serbia. The village care ministry's initiative suggested that this year's programme for the allocation of cooperative incentives, for which up to 7.5 million dinars for newly established and 15 million dinars for cooperatives that exist and work for a long time, be reported by co-operatives with KIM. State aid goes, will go, but it is necessary that we do everything that is up to us, that our people living in the southern Serbian province become independent and economically independent. A good example of a successful project is Zubin Potok, which is supported by 12.4 million dinars from the "500 Cooperatives in 500 Villages of Serbia" programme. The cooperative has obtained fruit processing and packaging equipment and has increased revenue and earnings in 2020 by 40% thanks to this investment. Apart from Austria, they now export semi-products and final products to Italy and Germany. More than 80% of the Serbian population in Kosovo and Metohija live in rural areas, which speaks of how important the village is for the survival of these Serbian citizens in the southern Serbian province. The ministry of village care in co-operation with the KIM Office is doing its utmost to assist the Serb peasant in KIM with special dedicated programmes. Infrastructure programmes with a common goal of survival and return to KIM have been discussed, and special attention will be given to cultural manifestations and the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, which are an indispensable part of the cultural identity of our people. The programmes to be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2021 aim to specifically improve the living conditions and working conditions of the village in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM with particular attention to border, mountain-mounted and developed areas. That is why the PUPS MP club "Tri P" asks two questions to the village ministry, the KIM Office and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is the opening of new cooperatives in the Serbian environments in KIM planned and how will the state of Serbia help the work of existing cooperatives in the southern Serbian province? Will, apart from cooperatives in the north of KiM, also be mentioned cooperatives in Serbian enclaves in the entire KIM territory, especially in the environments that have a great centuries-old tradition of cooperativeism, such as Velika Hote in Metohija, Kosovo Moravlja or medieval Serbian monasterys at KIM, who have been fostering and preserving the tradition of Serbian cooperativeism for centuries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8523	Thank you. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8524	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of Mr Orlic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, was first presented in public yesterday in the period from 1992 to 1995 by the Government of Republika Srpska in 2018, and led by Mr Gideon Gajf, a prominent Israeli expert in the study of the Holocaust, was composed of experts chosen on the basis of his professional expertise and personal and professional integrity. I will read the composition of the Commission, because the malicious could say that there were only representatives of the Russian Federation and the Republic of China, but that is not the case, and you will see it from the Commission's composition. So, besides Gajf, the members of the Srebrenica Commission are Markus Godbach, a German lawyer and a crime expert from Auschwitz, Yuki Oss from Japan, Roger Bajard, a forensic scientist from Australia, Giuseppe Zakri, a publicist from Italy, meanwhile, died, Lawrence Armand French from the United States, Adenrele Schinab, an expert on Boho Haram, an extremist and Islamic movement from Nigeria and Prof. Dr. Marija Đuric, head of the medical laboratory at the University of Belgrade Medical University. Very competent and qualified Commission. The commission, after three years of work, compiled a report on over 1,000 sides with a serious professional and scientific argument. I will read part of the Commission's conclusion, and it reads: "After a thorough investigation of the Independent International Commission for the Research of the Death of All Peoples in the Srebrenica region from 1992 to 1995, it is concluded that neither the individual crime of genocide nor genocide occurred in Srebrenica at all. “ So it wasn’t genocide, and it wasn’t us, it was a prominent group of international experts. The fact is that this report is speaking contrary to the Hague court's shameful verdict to General Mladic, Radovan Karadzic. The report by this Commission shows that the Hague Court, unfortunately, did not work professionally, was not governed by law and justice, international law, but had one selective approach, one less and one more. On the other hand, some countries in the region, wanting to court their mentors, hurried to better deliver their resolutions that Serbs condemn to genocide in Srebrenica and thus predetermined that Srebrenica is genocide, which is not, of course, true. It is obvious that they serve as a political lever. Even brotherly Montenegro hurried to do so before Pristina and before the Pristina authorities. Pristina could have been expected to do so, as Pristina is using its well-trained method that the attack is the best defense and that it is better and more politically cost-effective to charge others. I will remind you, Serbia was the only one more than ten years ago who condemned the crimes in Srebrenica and it was our international and moral obligation, expressed their condolences to the victims' families, hope and belief that such crimes would never happen again on either side and that we would preserve peace and stability, but also said very clearly that crime cannot be national, that crime cannot be answered by the people, cannot be answered by the state, must be answered by the individual, and anyone who committed the crime should and must answer. They know it well, and when already so justly, why did none of them condemn any crimes committed against Serbs in the conflict during the break-up of the SFRY? Why wasn't there a convicted crime against Serbs in Podrinj, Bratunc and the Srebrenica villages, where more than three thousand Serbs were killed? Why was the "Storm" not condemned in which 1,869, and 250,000 Serbs were exorcised? Why were numerous mass murders and exorcisms of over 250,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija not condemned? In the end, why has no country of the region reached a resolution so far on the condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma committed in Ustasha camps of death during World War II in space and in NDH territory. It is obvious that it is an orchestrated, well-designed strategic attack on the Republic of Serbia, a well-designed policy of attack on the Republic of Serbia, pressure on the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we say that Serbia faces great temptations and great challenges in the period ahead of us. For the sake of justifying our own crimes, including the genocide of the Serbs, it is necessary that we Serbs and only to declare us a genocide people, and that is not the historical truth? What do we do now? How long has this been going? What about the Serbian victims? I ask only one question - whether the government has the possibility and plans that, when it comes to this report, anything about the cruel war crimes policy directed against Serbia, which is heard daily in increasingly brutal forms in the region and from Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, with our people being stamped on genocide, which will mark all future generations if we as a state do not respond adequately to these disgusting accusations. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8525	The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8526	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, I ask the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia. What will the Public Prosecutor's Office do against individuals who, by their statements, violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? Explanation. In front of the very difficult, important and painful talks of President Aleksandr Vukic with representatives of the provisional Pristina institutions in Brussels, individuals from the tycoon-mafia-political groups from the country and the environment, protectors of the so-called. Independent Kosovo has done everything to make the talks more difficult for President Vukic. Before the Brussels talks, Nenad Canak visited Kurti in Pristina on two occasions to support him on the so-called. Kosovo independence. Do not forget that Canak, as a failed presidential candidate, was still on 5.03.2007: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence." Before the president's talks in Brussels, Canak visited Srebrenica, which is a civil act, but did not remember a day earlier to visit Kravica from both mail and Serbian victims, but therefore he did not forget to attack Alexander Vukic directly from Srebrenica. Canak goes to Podgorica in June this year to teach Milo Djukanovic how to attack Aleksandar Vukic at the International Conference on the Western Balkans in Bratislava, accusing him of what he says I quote -- protecting the interests of the Serbian people of Montenegro and creating a great Serbia, finished a quote, which is notorous untrue. Aleksandar Vukic has repeatedly stressed and stressed that Serbia has no problem with Montenegro's independence, it is their decision to be an independent state, but Serbia will not be silent about the difficult position of the sprawling people in Montenegro. In a hateful speech to Aleksandar Vukic, Djukanovic said in Bratislava, quoting many that Serbia lost Kosovo when Russia was weak, which means it would now be time for Kosovo to return, complete a quote, and thus disrupts the integrity of the Republic of Serbia before the Brussels talks and supports independent Kosovo. Dear People's MPs, and blessedly resting Patriarch Irinej told Djukanovic on 9 August 2020, quote: "Dukanovic was brought to Patriarchy in 1998 and presented as the future and a strong perspective of the Serbian people, and today grief is taking hold of me when I see how deep a human fall can be. With such a demand for the possibility of compromise, I don't believe it." It's a finished quote. He said blissfully by resting Patriarch Iriney. And, behold, miracles, and Dragan Gilas, in a people known as Đikas Mafia, became involved in attacks against Alexander Vukic before going to Brussels, to make it harder to talk through his portal with a text in which he admitted that the criminals Belivuk had been running at a game in Novi Sad, quoting – Vucica gay, finished a quote, and so Gilas' portal openly sided with criminals. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas is not interested in the development of Belgrade at all, you know, and former US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter, who said on March 19th 2009, quote: "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is marketing rather than real." It's a finished quote. By doing so, the Giki Mafia admitted that it was only interested in private accounts and those 619m euros per destination. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while our President Vukic makes superhuman efforts to restore the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia by implementing a policy of peace, security policy, solidarity policy, a policy of health for all our citizens in the country and the region, a policy of dialogue in finding a lasting compromise and sustainable solution for the southern Serbian province, so far Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic are filling their private accounts in various destinations of the world, spit out the president of the state, the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, so as not to come back to power and bring Serbia to bankruptcy. It won't work. Finally, I appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially Belgrade, and especially the young generation, our students and our students, to be vaccinated, because only by vaccination can we lead to the health and economic prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8527	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We are moving on to a common principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 3 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Andelka Atanasković, Minister of Business, Nikola Selaković, Foreign Minister, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary, Petar Korović, Deputy Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Katarina Obradović Jovanovic, Assistant Minister, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt Management, Dragana Marković, Head of the Department of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, Jelisaveta Colanovic, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Dijana Stojković, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Economy, Lidija Zivlaković, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Elisaveta Colanovic, Chief of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Public Council of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Agricultural List Act 2023, Proposal for a Law establishing financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts in difficult economic conditions as a result of the KOVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-KOV-2 virus; Proposal for a Law on the validation of the KOVID-19 Financial Contract to the Government of Serbia for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Medium-sized Enterprises of the Central Investment Bank between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Co-operation of the Republic of Italy. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Nedimovic is the vice-president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8528	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I would like just a few introductory words to put forward on the proposals for the laws that are in front of you today. I will go in order, as foreseen in Parliament's agenda, and this is the proposal for a agricultural census for 2023. This is a follow-up to the story we had a few weeks ago about postponing the census, for a simple reason because we had a crown and we were unable to implement all the necessary material preparations, personnel training and everything else, so that it could be implemented at the moment when it was scheduled according to the original proposal. As for the proposal for a agricultural list law, he predicts that the census will be implemented in 2023, that the results of this list will be published in 2024. The main reasons for proposing this law are to obtain a comprehensive review of the characteristics of national agriculture, the creation of databases, the establishment of a statistical register of agricultural landowners providing a framework for agricultural research and the acquisition of other statistics necessary for planning at both local, regional level and national level. What is doubtless to be implemented according to the highest standards as foreseen in accordance with EUROSTAT's methodologies, that we will have such a list present on our field, the Republic Bureau of Statistics will carry out all the necessary preparations and already implement them, the funds will be provided for this project and no doubt that in addition to the existing registers that exist in agriculture, this will give us a comprehensive overview of where we are at this point compared to 10 years ago. Widely thinking about agriculture, we can say that agriculture in 2011 and today are no longer the same agricultural activities, both in terms of the yield that we receive, so in terms of the culture that is being grown, in terms of the machinery that is present on the ground, in terms of the irrigation system, in terms of the use of the most modern technologies, more or less a bunch of things have changed. I'll try to quote a farmer in the area of Backa Palanka, who told me this a month ago, since he was a user of both national and IPARD funds, related to tractors, machinery and everything else necessary and related to the use of the state country, which was registered at auctions. He says, ten years ago, when I went to mechanization fairs in Germany, I dreamed I had a mechanism like them, and today I can freely say that at most I have a mechanism bar like them, and in some things about using modern technologies, we went one step ahead. Of course, I was just paraphrasing a farmer from Backa Palanca. It is not the same situation in all parts of Serbia, but we will try to get through the budget cuts in years ahead of us as much as we can for that so-called. support to the rural sector, to support the procurement of machinery, the irrigation system. I'm just going to give you one example. In 2016, in order to make the best of the machinery, the better the irrigation systems, the better the state could then allocate 600 million dinars for these rural development measures south of Sava and Danube. In 2020, only four years later, 11.2 billion dinars were paid for this support, so almost 20 times more. This tells you enough how much the state's capacity has increased, in line with its financial opportunities and with its financial stability, and also how many applications from all over Serbia have been for these measures. I'm only talking about those budget-funded measures. When the time comes for the implementation of this list law, it is no doubt that those who are able to make the most important strategic decisions regarding the development of agriculture that will make their work very easier, because this methodology that will be applied corresponds exclusively to the time in which we live and we can no longer view agriculture as some activity that is, as a hobby, but exclusively as a branch of an economy that brings a large part of GDP, and represents an exceptional poverty base for the food industry that can bear the development of agrarians. As for the draft law establishing financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets in difficult economic conditions due to the pandemic of the Kovid caused by the Sars virus and the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the financial contract, I must say once again for the public. I'm going to paraphrasise our president - until a few years ago we were champions exclusively in sports or mostly in sports, in the economy we didn't believe in ourselves. The story of the crown period and the post-coronal period is the story of Serbia, the story of incredible results, the growth of GDP, the growth of the economy and the possibility of a competition to be at the top three in the whole of Europe. This was the situation in 2020 when we had the lowest drop from all countries in Europe, and this will be the situation at 2021, because all indicators in the first quarter and the passing time we have say that GDP growth will be even above the expectations of Serbia's most optimistic. One of the tools, as has been achieved among other things, is the adoption of adequate measures during the state of emergency when intervened in the economy sector, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector with adequate financial support for all economic operators. Don't forget how much money was given to support the payments of minimals in business entities, both in the private sector and in other sectors, how much money was given to the hosts, how much money was given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, etc. The "helicopter mani" which often disputed during May, and you saw how much consumption jumped based on it and what effects were for the Serbian economy. This bill implies the following things. Serbia signed a 200m-euro loan agreement with the European Investment Bank. Last year we had an invitation for economic operators, to support these economic operators and through these tools, which I ask you to support the Ministry of Economy and the Government of Serbia in the voting day, to approve them in order to get the necessary support for the crafts and maintenance of the current liquidity for all people who competed from the small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very important to say that all this support will be realised through the Development Fund. We have two characteristic things to do with the use of these funds. The credit repayment deadline for maintaining liquid liquidity and obtaining crafts is up to 48 months, including a grace period of up to 18 months, with an interest rate of 1% on an annual basis. The minimum amount of credit for one credit user for companies is one million dinars, and for entrepreneurs, cooperatives and business entities is registered in the corresponding register of 200,000 dinars. While the maximum amount of credit for entrepreneurs and micro-legislators can be up to 10 million dinars, and for small legal entities 60 million dinars, and for medium legal entities up to 100 million dinars. Given that economic operators in the field of tourism, hospitality and passenger traffic were particularly affected by the pandemic, it was taken into account that funds could be used under more favourable conditions from this area. The payment deadline for them, for economic operators whose main activity is from tourism, catering and passenger traffic is up to five years, which includes a grace period of up to two years, with the same interest rate of 1% on an annual basis. The minimum amount of credit for one credit user, for companies, is millions of dinars, for entrepreneurs, for cooperatives, for business entities alike up to 200,000 dinars. The maximum is for entrepreneurs and micro-legislators up to 10 million dinars, small legal entities 70 million dinars, and for medium legal entities up to 110 million dinars. Credit beneficiaries granted credit under the regulation will be extended due date and extended grace period to 12 months. It is very important to say once again that this support will include all those who have shown interest in this kind of support. Everything will go through the Development Fund in a very clear, transparent way and this will certainly happen in 2021 for those business entities that are processed during 2021 to provide a new initial chapel for their operation and for investment in crafts. There are areas where this cannot be applied, i.e. the application of this law, which are economic operators from the organisation of gambling, lottery and similar activities, the transport of oil and petroleum products and the production and transport of products, or for activities that are in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, international agreements applicable in the Republic of Serbia or the rules of the European Investment Bank. Undoubtedly, one important 200m-euro chapel that the Republics of Serbia will serve that during this period we all observe, most often in public, as if everything regarding the crown had passed in Serbia. No, I don't. We have over 50% of the vaccine population. We need to take another step at the population vaccination. No doubt Serbia has been one of the leaders around the world in a way to fight Kovida-19 in the last six months, since it started its vaccination. We must not now, especially in the younger population, lose that race, because the more people are vaccinated, the less damage that can be done to the population and don't give God of mortal outcomes. You all see what's going on these days. The numbers are very easy from 70, 80 jump to 120, 120 to 220. Maybe today or tomorrow, I'm speaking completely theoretically, they can jump two and three times. What's the fact and what the medical experts say, who vaccinated the fatal outcome is gone. We have to save people's lives and health, and then we have to save the economy, because without the economy, we couldn't intervene any of this, and that we also have an increase in salaries for the medical workers and support for our oldest citizens and other benefits for the unemployed persons who are going, and that's all the process that started during the emergency and when the funds in the economy got pumped and allowed them not to break down. You were witnesses in Italy, with our second foreign trade partner, what's going on, how many economic operators are closed. I'm listening to some acquaintances shut down business entities there, how people sell their personal assets to pay off the loans their companies took. Cruel, but that's right. In Serbia, the situation is very different, and all of this has allowed us a period of financial consolidation since 2014. If public finances hadn't been done properly, hardly any of this would have been possible. As for the confirmation of the memorandum between the Serbian and Italian foreign ministers, it is exclusively about diplomatic representatives, the recognition of the rights of members of their families, so that they can also exercise rights in the space of one and the other countries, as well as persons recognised as diplomatic officials. To these other persons who, I say, are accompanying personnel, the application of this memo does not apply. I would ask you to support these proposals for a simple reason in the voting day, especially this part of the part relating to the economy, because there are no more important things in the fight against the crown, besides the vaccine, which is the struggle for Serbia's economic improvement. I am fully convinced that our GDP growth rate will far exceed the figures the World Bank and the IMF have discussed, including our government. I think that we were also in the forecasts in December of the month pessimistic about what the scenario will be, and Serbia's agriculture will make a full contribution to Serbia's development in the months ahead, because, thank God, things are going well here and no matter how much we predicted in the previous period, in the previous years, that they can't be three good years, we're going to have a fourth good year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8529	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of the 2nd and 3rd, I would like to inform you that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, because of the need to bring the act from today's session agenda as soon as possible. Today's vote is expected to be around 6:30 p.m. Do the committees want the word? (Yes) The word has the chairman of the Finance Committee, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8530	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we discussed on the Finance Committee last week practically this contract concerning the financial support programme for economic operators, which applies to both crafts and liquidity of enterprises, just from the time last year, when Serbia was hit by the Corona and Kovida - 19, just like all European countries and the whole world, when we were closed for a month and a half. Practically halted economy at that time and the state had to react in a certain way. We, as the first state, made this step and supported the economy, which was of great importance at that time, which proved to be very good later, because the results we achieved in fact, when we talk about the slightest drop in GDP, that is, all business activities at the end of 2020, came to Serbia. This is what really gave us the gratitude of all international institutions, which they saw Serbia did something that they didn't have the courage to do, and only later in the steps when they were giving their support, in fact they realized that these high rates of economic downturns were in fact because they didn't realize in time what they needed to do with their economy, just at a time when all the economic activities were transformed from that part, which relate both to small and medium-sized enterprises and to the sector of trade and to the agriculture sector. Financial contracts, which included state support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as agricultural cooperatives, as well as trade, tourism and catering, since last year, when this major competition was launched by the government and the Ministry of Economy and is to be implemented by the Development Fund, in fact meant to collect all requirements at that time by economic operators who had a problem with liquidity and crafts. So, missing the so-called. Cash Flow to settle all obligations at that time. Believe me, at that point, the Development Fund had seven thousand demands. These requirements, i.e. the competition, also came from those small and medium-sized enterprises and those entrepreneurs who may never have reached out to take that step to raise credit, which shows that at that moment there was one fear in terms of functioning in general. And today when we talk about it, we say that many of us, of course, did not get a chance to sign a contract with the Development Fund. It's been a year, their demands remain. Of course, the guarantees that the Development Fund is looking for are now the same ones that were sought before Kovid - 19, but by providing support for this relaxes these types of guarantees to entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises by giving them the opportunity to take credits exclusively, which, personally, which businesses, can simply withdraw these loans. The state has defined 200m euros for the small and medium-sized business sector to simply support these credit opportunities, with the availability of the loan for two years, 70% is for qualified projects, which means that the Fund has already done a lot of work, but could not let go of the realisation, because there were no adequate financial resources for this type of lending and 30% is for investments, which shows that these loans can be withdrawn by the state in 15 tranches of 10 million, and can be one of 40 and there is no cost of withdrawing these tranches. This all shows that the state is really looking for all models of possible cheap loans, to enable its economy to make contracts with which it will really relax the part relating to liquidity and crafts, to enable them to function extremely normally on the market, now that we are simply somewhere and that economic momentum is able to work on the intensive recovery of our economy from the Kovid - 19 pandemic. This should preserve employment in the private sector, allow the realisation of new investments to have all businesses, achieve greater competitiveness when it comes to our products and to implement digitisation in all sectors. So what's most efficient now is not only small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the part that concerns agriculture, trade, tourism, to make full use of IT technology. That is why we are really pleased to accept these proposals on the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8531	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. In front of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Vice President Ilija Živić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8532	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Honored Citizens, the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy discussed at the session held on 15 July 2021 the proposal for a law establishing financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets under difficult economic conditions following the Kovid pandemic - 19 caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus and in accordance with Article 155(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept the bill. The reasons are this: Serbia's economy has been very well met in the present pandemic period, and we have shown in a crisis situation that Serbia as one responsible and capable state should treat itself and its own economy and economy, as well as citizens. The liquidity conservation measures have been adopted by the regulations establishing a programme of financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets in difficult economic conditions due to the pandemic Kovid - 19 caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus, as well as the Regulation on the establishment of a guarantee scheme as a measure of support for the economy-relieving effect of the pandemic, establishing the establishment of a national guarantee scheme as an economic support measure. Through these two measures, a large number of economic operators have managed to provide favourable liquidity loans. The intention is to continue, through this law that we are considering today, to provide the necessary support to economic operators who continue to need it to obtain trade capital and maintain current liquidity so that they can regularly settle their obligations to business partners, employees and the state. Given the huge interest of economic operators in this type of government support, we needed additional funding and were provided in the form of credit support from the European Investment Bank after months of preparations and negotiations. Both of these programmes will, of course, be implemented by the Development Fund, as the minister stressed. The adoption of this law providing liquidity support to operators as one of the measures to support businesses would mitigate the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic, while providing funds for economic operators who submitted a loan application to the Development Fund by 10 December 2020 in accordance with the Regulation establishing a financial support programme for economic operators to maintain liquidity in difficult economic conditions, but who could not be considered for lack of funds. What is most important and what will be of the utmost interest to our citizens is that the application of the law will not cost citizens or businesses, because the users of credit funds will pay them in full, and the application of the law will contribute to easier access to funds for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, enterprises with medium-market capitalisation and cooperatives, and they will receive credit funds, most importantly, under more favourable conditions than with business banks. Therefore, interested economic operators will not be forced to take commercial loans with high interest on the banking market that is the former DOS regime during the tycoon rule of Dragan Gilas and bully Jeremic brutally from domestic banks and handed it over to the exact foreign bankers. After all, if the tycoon regime at the time had acted more responsibly in this sector, we would not have had a crisis with housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, the Agro Bank affair and many other inherited affairs from the banking sector. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Also, very significant for citizens and economic operators is the deadline for payment. The maturity of the loan to maintain liquid liquidity and the purchase of crafts can be up to 48 months with a grace period that goes up to as much as 18 months at the lowest interest rate there is, which is only 1% on the annual level, which at the moment represents an exclusive on the credit market, loans and loans thanks to the commitment of the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic to help economic operators in every way. In view of the fact that economic operators in the field of tourism, catering and passenger traffic were particularly affected by the pandemic, it was taken into account that these areas were allowed to use funds under slightly more favourable conditions. The state thus shows that it has hearing and understanding of the major problems of certain sectors of the economy. Once again, she disproved unwarranted criticisms that could be heard not only from the ranks of the so-called. The opposition, which only criticises without proposing any solution to the current situation, but also from individuals and self-proclaimed professional economic circles, who are now quoting the media under the control of tycoon Dragan Gilas again without offering any solution to the economic situation. Finally, the Committee assessed as a very good proposal in the law that the beneficiaries of the loan granted in 2020, under a regulation whose implementation of this law continues, could be extended by 12 months within which both the grace period and the repayment period are extended by six months without the conclusion of any special annex of the contract and the accompanying documents, so very simple. This will, above all, refer to users whose weight of activity is not from tourism, hospitality, passenger traffic, as they, as I have already said, are quite relaxed. So, we have a very good one and a law that comes at the right time and therefore the Committee has decided to propose to the Assembly its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8533	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marijan Risticevic, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8534	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I believe the most important Committee in the National Assembly, has recommended that the Assembly accept this proposal for a agricultural census law. We believe that agriculture is more business and that when food and drinking water run out that only then will we appreciate the value of agricultural production and the value of the water industry. At this moment, Serbia has 630,000 agricultural holdings as per the 2012 census. I believe that nine or ten years later, agricultural holdings will be far less than they were in 2012. But it's a process. At the average age of 62, 63, the future of the village, if we don't take care, could be a disaster. So it is important to see very much in this list how many population of 1,440,000 was in 2012, how many people now have in the villages, especially along the administrative lines and especially what interests me, along the borders with our neighbours. It's very important, as it matters how many people Serbia has, how many children are born, how much talent is there, because it's my impression that we're retreating like we used to be Turks to big cities. Before Serbia gained independence, they are in some way, what the young say – cracked, retreating to large cities and my impression is that at this point, regardless of the cities do not have high birth, they do not lose the population, which means that the population is losing its insides. It is therefore very important on the next list to know how many people are detained in less populated territories, because this is not just a matter of agriculture, but, in my view, a matter of demographics. Not to mention that I am talking about Serbia, which is not in the EU process, just to tell you that in the EU, it is a similar situation, for example among agricultural ganja, EU carriers are 32% older than 65 years and only 11% younger than 40 years old, as regards average age, bearers of agricultural land in the EU. The European Union has 10.3 to 10.4 million agricultural holdings and currently 47% of these holdings are waste in Romania and Poland. So, the average area of land in the EU is slightly larger than in Serbia, but let me tell you that 70% of agricultural ganjas in the EU is less than 5%. It is a great error for many to think in Serbia, even those who say they are headed for agricultural policy, to think that they have large possessions in the EU. They're not much bigger than they are in Serbia. Let me also say that 40% of EU holdings, i.e. agricultural holdings, make up the value of agricultural production up to 2,000 euros. So 40% of EU properties make agricultural production worth 2,000 euros. They allow subsidies to stay in play. High subsidies that are three times larger than in Serbia and they have a more predictable agricultural policy that does not change seven consecutive years, and therefore, since we have also talked about tractors here, that we have 481,000 tractors, two-axis, it would be necessary to calculate exactly how old they are on average. The situation may be improved, but not so much, and that this country is relatively capable of modernising agricultural machinery by investing even more money in it, by me, by competing for tractors and machinery should be permanent and that it takes five years, so someone who doesn't have money this year to buy a tractor or some connected machine, maybe in two or three years he'll gain and take advantage of the rights that I use this year, someone next. So when it raises money that there can be competition every year, it is open to the purchase of modern agricultural machinery, because it is thus modernising agricultural production, and it is raising the machinery industry that in agriculture is the accompanying activity and a lot of connected machinery is especially produced in our country at this time. So, the list that's going to be made depends on the projection of our agricultural policy and I ask those who are most responsible for that list to be detailed, to know exactly whether we have 908,000 cattle or not, whether there are virtual cows or not. So, let's compare what we have in the register at the Agrarian Payments Administration and see how many of our people compete for subsidies, and how much of this right it does not benefit and try to facilitate through the regulations of laws, regulations, etc. that everyone can apply for incentives in the state of Serbia and that they all spend money in the full budget and all have the right to be stimulated from the budget in a certain way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8535	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, these proposals before us today have been discussed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which we have assessed to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and today MPs will be able to discuss them. Of course, my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me were, in a fundamental sense, as rapporteurs of the resolution committees in that sense. I would like to take advantage of this time that I have as a committee rapporteur to look back, that is, to hold back a little on this financial contract between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, which implies support to the Serbian Government for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of medium-capitalisation. So we know that the European Investment Bank granted a 200m-euro loan to Serbia to the Republic of Serbia and that these funds will be channelled through the Ministry of Economy, or through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. We are also aware that there is a significant drop in income in the previous period due to the epidemic that hit us and that the liquidity of the economy at one point was significantly compromised. The biggest hit was by entrepreneurs, they were small and medium-sized enterprises whose revenues fell largely and at one point the investment activity was stopped. It is necessary to continue to mitigate the consequences, primarily directed by the epidemic of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The stability of the financial and economic system needs to be maintained, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia has also adopted a regulation, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, when a programme of financial support to economic operators to maintain liquidity and crafts resources in difficult economic conditions following the epidemic that has hit us. I would also like to mention this programme called "Recover and Development", where a specific credit line is established for the allocation of favourable credit to economic operators for the realisation of new investment investments. This should certainly speed up, i.e. affecting that recovery and growth in the economy and economic activities in the Republic of Serbia are happening immediately. The intention is, of course, to support the recovery of small and medium-sized enterprises through support for new investment investments. The situation in which the whole world was found because of an epidemic caused by a coronary virus has shown us how difficult it is to fight in all fields, but who was ready for that kind of fight. Serbia has shown its readiness, of course, that we could not have had stable finances, a stable health system, which has given us the possibility that, in a short period of time, even in a moment, we bring measures that involve state aid to the economy, but also to the citizens of Serbia. In a short time, we built hospitals to work on collective health, provide conditions to work on collective immunity, but in a short time we managed to take care of the mitigation of the consequences that hit the economy. Given everything I have stated, but also the obvious need to continue taking measures to support the preservation of financial and economic stability, I will take the opportunity to invite my colleagues and colleagues to this proposal that I have spoken of, but also other proposals on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8537	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8538	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government and the Ministers with Associates, the Honored Representatives, other representatives of the Government and Government Institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorary Citizens, the Agricultural List Act, as well as almost all the laws relating to agriculture represent one of the particularly important topics for the National Assembly, i.e. us MPs in the National Assembly. For the simple reason that agriculture is a strategic issue. This is not one of those questions that are classy or desirable categories, but it is a topic on which the state and society rest, on which the elementary biological survival of every country's citizens rests, and certainly these countries. I am therefore pleased that in the last few years, the government institutions headed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister are increasingly showing us that this issue has been understood in this way and that the coordination of these institutions and the ministry itself has been significantly dynamicd in this direction and in this direction. Of course, we are aware that something that, I say, has been neglected for decades is not possible to remove from that mud of neglect in a few months or a few years, which actually means that this upstream swimming path or the upward course of standing on the feet of the agriculture sector will certainly last. We should be aware of this and certainly support the ministry and other competent authorities and institutions on this path, but it is therefore looking forward to every step of concrete progress and concrete correction and rise in the agriculture sector. Of course, the List Act will allow for the refreshing of data, statistics that are essential for the creation of good strategies, because it is not possible to have quality strategies and good plans, development plans for any sector, and especially for the agriculture sector without quality, fresh and accurate data. We, members of the Bosniak people in Serbia, in particular, who come from the Sandzak area, are further interested in this list for the reasons that we had some problems in the previous list with the regime and that one significant part or significant number of citizens in the Sandzak area have boycotted that list and we have thus simply had incomplete data on the agricultural sector in the Sandzak area and certainly that everything that came from this phenomenon and this problem has actually caused some negative consequences of the developmental nature, investment nature for a whole decade, which is certainly something that needs to be far behind us and what is now looking forward to the fact that we no longer have such a relationship between the authorities and citizens of that area, which has actually led to this boycott, and I believe that the upcoming list of citizens and the population, but in this case and the list of agriculture, will be successfully done where we finally come to the real, healthy and complete data on which basis we will be able to plan with quality, and to implement all the institutions, which we will be able to implement, and to implement, by means. So we're finally going to draw the line and allow it to function in this area in a quality way. I know that the needs of investments in agriculture donations and donations are necessary for the whole area, but certainly the space that is more significant should be focused on it in order to replace that neglect, even if it was not from the domain of the government's responsibility, but the simple meaning of the state is such that even when you have poor governments, when you have problems left by previous governments, you can condemn them, you can also consider them responsible for it, but the current governments must assume that responsibility, because simply that is the state, regardless of what someone else has caused it. We're going to say who's guilty, we're going to tell who caused it, but we're going to have to have current power and any other who actually inherits certain problems and needs, actually face these problems and solve them. I say this simply because the area of the cave, the area of Sandzak, has been significantly for decades, long-term neglected on various grounds, and the agriculture sector has also been significantly threatened for many reasons. One of the reasons was the neglect in infrastructure, because it might be the only area where we had rural areas that had 10, 15 kilometers of bad academic roads. So, not a mile, two, three. What are serious steps, what we have realized together with the Government and the summit of the state over the past two years, it is already a famous cave highway, which is a developmental artery for the cave highlands, and it may have been one of the worst problems of this species and that, thanks to God, despite all the burdens of various crises, we have managed to realise and actually connect one end of the cave to the other end of the cave and that we are almost reaching the border with Montenegro, which is actually a new era for cave space. Of course, there is now another significant road being realized in the part of the cave that connects each other's arms now, and by doing so, we are sort of removing these big problems. We are now left with the needs of certain villages that are up to four, five kilometers away, we no longer have these drastic distances that I say were up to 15 kilometers away and we are slowly approaching that average at Serbia's level, which certainly has problems in certain other parts of the country, but this sure state will significantly improve. That is why I encourage the Ministry of Agriculture, although it is not a key institution for investing in road infrastructure, but I know that they can also help when it comes to rural roads and I think that it should also be involved and help certain villages in the Sandzak area, i.e. the Cave, where they would finally enable basic communications and thus eliminate what is the biggest problem in fact for the preservation of the village and for the preservation of the elementary vitality of the village and communication, especially for those villages that have managed to survive all those many years. So to face such distances and bad paths, and then to have winter temperatures up to minus 30, so these are really heroic villages and they should be given a medal, not only help them now, because to survive so much means being determined to survive. So they deserve to be helped as soon as possible. It's actually people who show supernatural, supernatural endurance, strength, energy and imagine when they get normal conditions for doing what all these people can do. So that's the right direction. Of course, with new statistics, we will have the possibility of sound and real planning. I started a topic a few days ago when we had before us the Nature Protection Act, some steps in development plans, especially those strategic on purpose, with regard to the visions of what we want with a certain end. So anyone who once crossed the cave will surely agree that it is a special natural wealth of this country, which when you simply find yourself in a space that is 50 kilometers wide open at a height of 1,000 meters, with all these vast pastures, simply that mental-emotional feeling is special if you find yourself once, let alone all those possibilities of development that are ahead of us. There is a lot of talk about the cave, on the cave itself and beyond, and from Belgrade's position, so we do not have a principled dispute on the importance of the region, i.e. that end and the high seas, when it comes to the need for support and when it comes to developmental visions. But what I have opened as a topic and what will continue cannot be trained in a congregation speech is a certain kind of lack of coordination in strategic planning of different directions of development. Then you have a municipal decision in Sjenica that the cave field is declared a special nature reserve, which is a great idea, because in the tourist sense the possibilities and developmental visions of the cave are truly remarkable. True, a part of the Cave should be dedicated to such a vision of nature protection, a special reservation is a great idea. But what we have noticed is a certain gap in the strategic planning of one direction, meaning, tourist purposes, nature protection, making a certain reserve, special nature protection. On the other hand, we have needs or visions of agricultural development, and I'm not sure that's exactly what we can do in the same place. I'm not sure we can even take some quick steps that way. You then get a group of hosts who say – wait, I am now forbidden to invest here in agriculture because all my country or all the space around my country has been declared a special nature reserve. So we need to have more significant coordination on the relation of municipal authorities, on the route of the Ministry of Agriculture, on the route of the Ministry of Tourism, so that we do not get into these problems. The third segment I also came up with last time is the issue of military exercises in the same field, so at the cave high. I certainly don't know if there is any need to rebuild myself and to point out that I am fully aware that the state and the military have the need for military training, that the military exercise should certainly be maintained, but there is also a certain gap within the competent authorities when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, on the other hand, as I said, the Ministry of Agriculture and, on the third hand, the municipalities of the authorities that also have their powers and are making sovereign decisions. Now the question arises – can one and the same space be a special nature reserve, can it be a space to invest in agriculture and can it be a polygon for the military? So it absolutely doesn't have to be an expert on either of these three fields in order to know that it can't. That means it's not good, it's not acceptable to let the Ministry of Defence have its own program, without communicating with the Ministry of Agriculture, with other competent authorities, including municipal authorities, in this case in Sjenica. So first of all, in strategic planning, we should have more coordination in order to actually achieve what we want. Is this all supposed to be a cave? If there is no other space for a military polygon, here, let it be a cave, but let's agree on what part of the cave is, is that very part of the cave and the military exercise on that part of the cave acceptable and will endanger these other plans in agriculture and protect the special nature reserve. So that's what a serious state has to take care of, not let go of the state's organs now, each one has its own law, one has its own rules and each one has its own jurisdiction, but we make certain problems that are actually intertwined here, especially when it comes to the military. I want to point out that I don't believe there are military strategists in this country who don't care what the attitude of the military and the population will be. I think all smart people who take care of this country's army must take care of it, especially when we know that there are certain wounds that didn't heal that way after the '90s. I think it's very important, I remember when I served the army, I served the army in Gospić and in Grazac at St. Rok in 1989, and we were very uncomfortable when we got the information that some of us were waving in a village where we perform some infantry exercises has animosity towards the military. So they said to us, "Be careful here, not in the court, not here because they are not in favor of the army. So, I remember that wasn't pleasant at all. Now, one who wants a high-quality and powerful army must know that the military can only be that way if it is ultimately in symbiosis and friendly relations with the population. So that's something I think, not an emotional dimension, but I think of something very important from the aspect of a military strategy and the strengthening of the military that its relationship with the population, in general at the level of the state, and especially where certain operations are carried out, or military exercises, are also of paramount importance. So I think we should also review certain regulations, I don't know if they're at the level of the law, certain legal regulations of the Department of Defense. I know there are regulations on which the military can, when it is estimated that it is in her interest to usurp both someone's yard and someone's property and someone's land, but I'm not sure if it's smart and good to treat those regulations as well as in war circumstances, as in peacetime conditions. I don't think that's good, that's not smart. Second, as long as the army can choose, whether it will perform military exercises in October of the month or perform in June of the month, so I don't think it's important for the military. But that for the people who live there, for those citizens whose pasture is the land, these agricultural products, that hay, that grass, that life. So we can't just say, you know, this is an army interest, you're suspended from your property, we have a military exercise, we'll make it up to you. So, first of all, it's not good for a relationship with citizens. Secondly, the question is whether it can be compensated, how will it be compensated, how much you simply exclude someone from the process. Second, where is the sanctity of property, the personal property of every citizen. These are all the elements that, as you can see very carefully, very much I'm treating, but we can't ignore them, because it's too important how we build our relationships. And I can't believe someone thinks it's the same, that it's perfectly normal to bring Milorad Dodik to the Cave. What's Milorad Dodik doing on the Cave? What's that mean, please, that Milorad Dodik is on the Cave? So, I'm not getting into it, so take him wherever you want out of it, but a man who's definitely destructive to building a Serb-Bosni relationship. One of the principles, my political functioning of the SPP, the agreement we have reached here, is the efforts to heal our relations, particularly the Serb-Bosni relations. I consider it strategic for both Serbs and Bosniaks. That's what I find very important, and that's why it's worth taking care of. I don't know what the army gets, how it's going to advance the army, because the cave, or Sandzak, is being brought by Milorad Dodik, who is destructive enough in Bosnia, and don't please pour it over the Drina, especially where the Bosniaks live. This is my request, my recommendation, we don't need that. Let everything that looks like oil, fire, let us put it away, at least when it comes to Serb-Bosnian and Bosniak-Serbian relations, I find it very important, I find it very important, I care about rebuilding, to heal Serbian-Bosnian relations. The Sandzak space may be the only one that, I say, has passed those tests, or tests under war circumstances. I am delighted that there has been no Serb-Bosnian conflict in this area, I believe that it is one of the key potentials for restoring our relations, in fact it has confirmed that traditionally good neighbouring Serb-Bosnian relations, and that they can only be threatened by some wrong policies and wrong procedures, which come on the side or on various sides. So these are the things we need to take care of, because you see, I think enough lessons are enough for politicians and military strategists and all the minds of this country, that a hundred years of force has failed to integrate non-Serb population into this country and society. I think the time has come to change tactics and strategies, to stop doing it with various pressures and various other systems that have not produced results so far. We need integration, but it will be built on good relations, mutual respect and the building of the atmosphere, where all citizens, regardless of which national community or religious confession they will belong. Only then will we have a stable and quality state, a healthy society and the ability to go to all these development projects, which are announced and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8539	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SDPS, Jasmina Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8540	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable Minister Nedimovic, respected members of the Serbian government, co-workers and fellow MPs. We have an important law before us today, which will allow for a list of agriculture in 2023. The list of farms is a survey that will collect data on the structure of agricultural holdings in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What we need to know is that the results obtained by the list aren't just numbers and boring statistics. On the contrary, the data obtained by the census will give a clear picture, i.e. a full review of the state of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, both at the republic and at the local level. It is necessary for the state to know what it has in this area, so that it can access strategic goals as realistic as possible, when it comes to planning and the future of our agriculture. How important it is to support agricultural production and its development, it also speaks about the significant participation of agriculture in Serbia's gross domestic product. In recent years, the share of agricultural production, in total GDP in Serbia, has ranged between 6% and 7.5%, which is about four times more than in the EU as a whole. At the time of the largest pandemic of the Kovid19 virus, the share of agriculture in Serbia's GDP, stood at 7.5% and could be freely said that agriculture and food industries, also with 7.5% of participation, have preserved the decline of GDP in Serbia. This is precisely because of the structure of the economy, i.e. higher participation of agriculture and the food industry, and that is why Serbia had a lower drop in GDP at the time of the biggest crisis, than other European countries. For example, agriculture in European countries, characterised by highly productive production, such as the Netherlands, Denmark or France, participate with less than 2% of GDP. Practice has shown that agriculture and the food industry, branches of businesses that did not exist during the health crisis and will not suffer as much damage, such as some other branches, such as the car industry and therefore Serbia's GDP recovery, which will be greatly affected by agricultural production and the food industry will be both faster and easier. That is also recognised by the IMF, predicting that next year Serbia will have an economic growth of 7.1%, which is good, because this means stronger trust with foreign investors, but also easier to repay public debt in the future. I say all of this, in order to understand the importance of agriculture and its contribution to our economy and the overall development of Serbia, and not to underestimate at any moment, nor to neglect, but to encourage and develop agricultural production, because the demand for food in the world will be growing. Our advantage is that we are in a good geographical position, we still have good natural potential, good land characteristics, water, climate, all the resources to successfully deal with agriculture. We need to preserve these resources and use them in a sustainable way, because agriculture and food production are our great chance not to miss. In order to use the natural resources we have in as rational a way as possible, i.e. to achieve a more productive level of production and to achieve better economic effects in agriculture, we need to improve the level of knowledge of our farmers, because it remains unfortunately low among most farmers. What drew my attention these days was that when I got into colleges this year, the least of my interests were agricultural colleges. The Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade, despite excellent promotion, left 453 free seats on the cost of the state, and 225 self-financed. It says that because of the weight and low-paid work, young people do not want to opt for the agricultural profession. However, some polls say there are among the enrolled students and a significant number of those who want to return to their holdings after school, to advance their holdings, and that is what brings hope back to agriculture. We do not know exactly what the results of the 2023 census will be, but based on the survey on the structure of agricultural holdings carried out in 2018, on a sample of 120,000 agricultural holdings, and based on what is visible to the naked eye, we can conclude that the ownership structure in agriculture remains unfavourable. It is a large, even dominant number of small agricultural holdings, and it is also an unfavourable age structure, as I have already said, the educational structure of farmers. These are all factors that reduce and restrict the ability of agricultural landowners to monitor and adapt to changes on an increasingly demanding, both domestic and global market and market competition. All of what I have cited also has an adverse impact on the successful application of innovation in the field of agricultural sciences in practice, reflecting the economic effects of our agrarian, but also on competitiveness. However, when we look at the complete picture of our agriculture is drastically different from the previous list that was held in 2012, especially when it comes to our mechanism that has been restored, when it comes to the application of agro-technical measures, when it comes to the review of the system for irrigation, anti-urban systems, by applying innovation in practice, so if you want the contribution. I expect that when we get the results of the list we will be able to look at the state of our agriculture and, based on these data, we will systematically and planly approach problem solving and improving our agrarian. To fill in all the gaps and remove all the shortcomings. We need to change habits and rules and work to raise productivity. I'm going to set an example of warlords who take a large number of cows, and they don't care how much that cow gives milk, just to get a priority right to rent land and subsidies. It is not good for Serbia because we are going to reduce productivity rather than raise production. We can't list all the problems in agriculture, but after the list we'll know exactly who the farmer of agricultural land is, how old he is, where that land is, we'll have data on the land fund, land categories, crops, orchard areas and vineyards, data on how many percent of the land is watered, how much is the use of fertilizer, chemicals, what is the percentage of organic production, what is the number of cattle and other domestic animals, how many bee hives we have, what is the number of agricultural facilities, what is the state of our agricultural machinery, which we have, etc. The previous agricultural list was held in 2012 in accordance with the law of that same year and then the process of compliance with international standards in agriculture was launched. Since a 10-year period has been long and much has changed in the field of technology and digitisation and methodology, it is necessary to adopt a new agricultural list law in line with the European Union standards, which, among other things, provides for the implementation of the list every 10 years, and between the two lists each third year, to conduct a survey on the structure of agricultural land. The list of farms will be conducted from 1 June to 31 December 2023 and will start no later than one year after the census is completed, mainly because of the use of information on this list, but also because of the savings of financial resources, because the equipment used for the census will also be used for the list of farmers. Due to all of the above, the financial resources foreseen for the implementation of the agricultural census in 2023 are lower by around 43% compared to the funds spent for the 2012 census. The list is financially supported through IPA 2018, which means that the participation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget will be around 33%, and the rest from the IPA funds is good. Data will be collected directly from the owners, the method of interview and 3,500 censusors will be hired for the job. The law also provides for penalties. That's how it is, for example. a fine of 100 000 to a million dinars provided for by a legal person carrying out the activity of agricultural production, if he refuses to give the censusor data or give it incorrect or incomplete data. On the other hand, fines from 30 to 50 000 dinars will also be fined by a person in charge of the conduct of the list’s affairs if these transactions do not take place in a timely and attributed manner. That's why this business needs to be approached responsibly. The implementation of the list is in line with the requirements of the World Programme. For the FAO List of Agriculture United Nations, it is precisely for the purpose of collecting data necessary for the analysis and monitoring of the global strategy for agriculture and rural development, as some of the objectives of sustainable development are to increase investment through the promotion of international co-operation, investments in rural infrastructure, agricultural research, advisory services and development of plant and livestock genetic material banks, in order to improve production capacities in particular in developing countries. That's good for Serbia, too. On the way to the European Union, our agriculture must be adapted to a number of regulations that will significantly change the current situation in agriculture and should also be aware of our agricultural producers. And, not only that, in addition to adapting to the European Union standards, there are many jobs and challenges in this area in the face of Serbia if we want to improve our agriculture, preserve it and achieve more significant economic results. In addition to the rules laid down by the European Union and imposed on us by our trading partners, we must adapt to much more stringent and harsher rules. These rules impose nature through climate change, which are becoming more and more pronounced year after year and which leave an ever-increasing effect unless we adapt to the laws that nature imposes on us. Look only this year, first of all, we had unremembered droughts that were halved, and in some parts and completely devastated the raspberries, cornfields, from high temperatures burned the grasslands for cattle pasture, dried the water springs. Just a few days ago at the public service, I saw a report from Banat, where thousands of sheep and cows no longer have anything to feed, except for the completely dried remains of grass, shepherds have no water to water their flock. After the great droughts, we faced huge rainfalls, rain, storms, the city. In some parts of our country, like Blaco, the city has completely destroyed this year's generation, although a record number of 12,000 anti-urban missiles has been fired since the beginning of the season, and that hasn't helped anywhere, because nature is always stronger than man. Experts are on the world climate change panel at the end of June this year warning us that if we have a permanent global warming above the 1.5-degree threshold and reaches 2 degrees Celsius, we are just waiting for extreme heat and hunger in the world. Therefore, this List of Agriculture Act in the Service of Sustainable Agriculture is the aim of the list to obtain accurate, reliable and internationally comparable data, in order to achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources, to increase agricultural productivity and to make food available to all people on the planet in sufficient quantities. Believing that these are the goals we all seek, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed law. Today, we also have before us a proposal for a law establishing financial support for economic operators to maintain liquidity in difficult economic conditions due to the Kovid-19 pandemic. This is a justifiable measure that needs to be supported, because the health crisis that has affected the whole world, and therefore our country's liquidity of the economy has been significantly compromised. It is therefore important to take measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. In order to meet a large number of economic operators who submitted a request for a loan to the Development Fund at the end of last year, which, due to the lack of funds, have not been considered and thus unrealised, it is necessary to continue the measures taken that aim to increase the liquidity of the company, ultimately, their sustainability and survival. After the adoption of this bill, and I hope that it will be during today's day, the right to use funds under this law will have entrepreneurs, cooperatives, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in production, trade or carry out a service of agricultural activity, which have submitted requests to the Fund by 10 December 2020. These are favourable loans with an interest rate of 1% a year and a 48-month repayment deadline, including a 18-month grace period, means 30 months of repayment of the loan. Last year's fund could not meet with all loan seekers, as there was not enough funding, but after the adoption of this law, the funds for its implementation will be secured from the European Investment Bank's credit line. This law will allow a large number of businesses and business entities whose survival has been threatened to continue to live and carry out their work. I therefore believe that no one should have a dilemma that this law should be supported, just as we should support the Financial Treaty, i.e. the support of the Serbian government through incentives for the granting of favourable credits for crafts and the maintenance of liquidity in difficult operating conditions caused by the pandemic. For these purposes, the European Investment Bank approved a 200m-euro loan to the government of the Republic of Serbia. These funds are intended for small and medium-sized enterprises for the purchase of crafts, but also for the maintenance of liquid liquidity and for it to be able to settle obligations towards employees, business partners and the state. In the end, Minister, as you said, two basic and most important things in the fight against the pandemic are vaccines and economies and I agree with that. Realising the importance of these measures for the survival of a large number of enterprises, and thus to preserve a large number of jobs and the existence of employees and their families, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8541	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Parliamentary Group, Unity Serbia, National MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8542	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Nedimovic with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the Law on the List of Agriculture in 2023, the proposal for a law on the establishment of financial support for economic operators to maintain liquidity and crafts in the difficult economic conditions of the conditioned pandemic of Kovida-19, as well as the proposal for a law on the validation of the Financial Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, again to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the Law on Confirmation of Memorandas between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy. All these laws, the Single Serbia will support it in the voting day, and here's why. When it comes to the list as a procedure, as a procedure for obtaining the necessary statistical data, this procedure is very complex, and therefore a list of agriculture, and therefore one such special law was necessary to regulate this procedure as it is before us today. The list of agriculture is, of course, an instrument that provides the necessary statistics on agricultural holdings and Serbia has already made one such list in 2012 and thus entered the World Agricultural List Programme, which was run by the FAO, or by the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. The data obtained by this census will allow for a review of the state and structure of agriculture both at national and micro level, and for this procedure, financial resources will also need to be allocated, slightly less than eightm euros, and it is simple that this law is also a way to secure these funds budgetally. What is well regulated by this law is that the list of farms is carried out no later than one year after the census, which also uses the resources to be used in the census, which will be before the agricultural census and will save considerable financial resources. As my colleague Karanac said, about 43% of the savings will be. Otherwise, data obtained from this list will be able to be used both for creating a strategy of agrarian policy and for planning, but also for professional analyses in various professional and scientific institutions. All of this makes the most sense if, apart from the state and these professional and scientific institutions, agricultural producers benefit from this list, and will certainly have, professional data analyses obtained by the list will unearth real and quality advice for agricultural producers how to make qualitative and quantitative improvements in their agricultural production and how to become competitive in the international market for agricultural products, which will inevitably follow the process of Serbia's EU accession. On the way to EU accession, Serbia will be obliged to adapt to a series of rules and standards prescribed by the EU. This Agricultural List Act is one step in that direction, and certainly the Unique Serbia, as I said at the beginning, will support this law. When it comes to these two other laws concerning the measure of support of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I can say that they are important, timely and necessary. In fact, if you remember, already in the second half of 2019, forecasts of the growth of the world economy, when it was not important, or think of the pandemic Kovida-19, were not so optimistic. Namely, a slow economic growth has been predicted, especially in the world's largest and strongest economies, and then when the epidemic started in China in January 2020, calculating that this epidemic, such as SARS and some other epidemics, would remain within the borders of China and South East Asia, already, because of the decline of economic activity in China and economic growth in China, world economists predicted the global recession, and then, when that epidemic in China has spread and turned into a pandemic, when the virus has spread throughout the world, it was not necessary to be God-like to realize that the world has entered into a major economic recession, a major economic crisis, we can even say economic shock, whose consequences and day today cannot be seen, because we simply do not know how many economic operators are going to go along with this virus. That is why a number of countries have gone to the necessary measures to support the economy, which has stemmed from an outbreak of the coronary virus, to maintain the liquidity of economic operators, to preserve existing jobs and to maintain as much economic activity as possible. Countries that set off with this type of assistance set aside an average of around 9% of GDP. However, Serbia, first of all, thanks to heavy economic reforms, thanks to the fiscal consolidation process and thanks to its one-minute decrease in public debt to only 52.5% of GDP, was able to single out more, i.e. it was able to single out around 12.5% of GDP in 2020, i.e. about five billion euros in the first two packages. This was, of course, the key to the favourable structure of our economy, because in the structure of our economy of service activity, especially hotel and tourism, did not participate in some large percentage, as well as thanks to the successful fight against the crown of the virus, Serbia succeeded in 2020, with a drop of all minus 1.5% to be a country with the lowest economic downturn in Europe in 2020. The government of the Republic of Serbia, meanwhile, also brought a third package of economic measures, worth about 250 billion dinars and with the first two total aid packages, the economy amounted to around 953 billion dinars. State aid to economic operators, with the third package of measures, other than small and medium-sized enterprises, is also taken into account by large enterprises, as they are also at risk of the pandemic of the virus. In the previous period, each entrepreneur and employees of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia received or will receive through the payment of minimum earnings of 1,460 euros. If we add those 100 euros last year and these 60 this year, it is about 1,620 euros to be paid to 1,050,000 employees in these small and medium-sized enterprises. When we talk about hotel and tourism, which is most endangered by the pandemic of the coronary virus, employees in these branches have only received about 1,970 euros through minimum earnings and if we add these 160 euros in aid, it is eventually around 2,130 euros. We said that Serbia had the lowest decline in economic activity of only 1.5% in 2020, but even then in such circumstances, thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we recorded some positive results. For example, during 2020, when the entire world economy suffered, our industrial production increased by 0.4% and increased by 0.4% compared to 2019. During 2020 and exports increased and amounted to 17.5 billion euros, while in 2019 it was 17.1 billion euros. Last year, 50,500 more employees were registered, and Serbia, in one of the previous exhibitions, said it attracted 3,44 billion foreign direct investment in 2020, according to UNCTAD, which is more than half of the total foreign direct investment in Southeast Europe during the pandemic of the coronal virus, i.e. Kovida-19. Every little bit in Serbia is being opened by some factory. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone would invest in Serbia that Serbia is not a politically stable, economically safe and healthy state. Here, recently in Jagodina, President Vukic and Dragan Markovic Palm opened the German factory "Fisher", whose owner has already announced the opening of new, other factories and currently the construction of the Austrian factory "Sibel", soon we open a Chinese factory, which means that this investment activity is and that direct foreign investment in Serbia is not being dried up, on the contrary, it continues to grow. And that's how they show us the data from this year. Namely, these numbers stand incomparably better this year than last year. The planned 6% growth is already guaranteed by statistics in the first term. Today we have reached the level that in the first semester we have an increased level of foreign investment by 18.3% and other news, the good news, too, that in the second quarter we will have a growth of 15.2%, which is significantly more than the projected 10.6 and these numbers guarantee that we will certainly have this projected growth in the 6% economy, lately some opposition concubines, precisely those who led Serbia to bankruptcy in 2012, and you are now worrying and accusing the government, today's power, that Serbia is over-indebted. Well, let me answer that argument with concrete data. The public debt of the central government in March 2021 increased by 134.2 billion dinars compared to February of the same year and amounts to 28.1 billion euros. Public debt participation of the central government in GDP at the end of March is 55.7% and public debt participation in GDP is about 56.5% in March. What does it look like in the world? Public debt in the world is about 70 billion dollars. The United States has a public debt of $21.5 billion or 105% of GDP. Japan 12 trillion dollars or 237% of GDP. Let's leave these strong and great world economies and far away from us, to get close. The European Union has $12.9 billion in public debt or 80.5% of GDP, or Italy 2.2 billion in public debt or 180% of GDP in debt, Greece 343% of GDP in public debt. Croatia, our neighbour, 40 billion dollars or 76.4% of GDP is the debt of the Republic of Croatia. On average, at the time of Kovida-19 public debt in the countries increased in developed countries about 100 to 150%, and in developing countries from 60 to 80, to 100% of the public debt in GDP. Simply, this global crisis has conditioned that countries react and solve economic problems in different ways and invest money in economic operators, thus stimulating both production and consumption and simply economic activity. A unique Serbia believes that the state of Serbia has crossed the path from subjects, who performed the mandates of powerful forces, as was the government of those who are now representing themselves as opposition, and in fact are nothing but political mutations of DS, to a credible partner with whom today is being negotiated and discussed, and so is Serbia today. And why is that? Because Serbia's responsible policy from the country before bankruptcy in 2012 crossed the path of difficult economic reforms and stabilisation of public finances, to today's country's stable and perspective economy. This led Serbia to show seriousness and deserve respect. Only economically strong Serbia has the strength to meet the challenges that part of the international community poses before Serbia. That's why JS will support these two bill proposals. When it comes to the Memorandum with the Republic of Italy, the JS believes that any such bilateral agreement contributes to strengthening our country's external trade position, although this agreement does not concern many people. There's a minister right in his opening statement. But regardless, every bilateral agreement Serbia has with another country, especially Italy, which is our largest foreign trade partner, strengthens our mutual relations and co-operation. A large number of Italian investments are present in Serbia. In Jagodina alone, we have so many Italian factories that the Italian ambassador once said - welcome to small Italy, and one of the streets in the industrial zone in Jagodina is called the right Italian street. Finally, to recapture, today's laws, which speak of a continuous work for the benefit of citizens, the continued work of ensuring economic stability, with economic stability certainly resulting in the political stability of our country, is growing in this way and international reputation. And for all these reasons, JS in voting day will support all these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8543	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group Zoltan Pek.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8544	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will talk about the law establishing financial support for economic operators to maintain liquidity and crafts in difficult conditions due to the KOVID-19 pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV virus2. This law regulates the allocation of credit funds to economic operators who submitted requests for credit to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia by 10 December 2020. This law prescribes who and under what conditions can receive this credit for a specific purpose, who will implement this law, who will and how will control the spending of these funds received under this law. Therefore, the right to use funds under this law shall be granted by entrepreneurs, cooperatives, micro, small and medium-sized operators who are in majority private or cooperative ownership and who, of course, carry out production, service, commercial and agricultural activities, who have submitted requests for credit to the Development Fund by 10 December 2020 in accordance with the Regulation and which, until the date of entry into force of this law, have not yet been decided. Funds can be used for the purchase of crafts and for the maintenance of liquid liquidity. The law prescribes funds for which they cannot be used, which is the organisation of gambling, lottery and similar activities, the transport of oil and oil products, the production and transport of products or activities that are in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, international agreements applicable in the Republic of Serbia or the rules of the European Investment Bank. The conditions to be met by the applicant for a loan, that no bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated or that no measures are in force under the reorganisation plan, financial restructuring or liquidation procedure. According to requests submitted in 2020, credit may be granted if the official financial report of the economic operator for 2012 and 2019 shows a net loss, but a profit has been achieved. This condition does not apply to entrepreneurs who have no obligation to submit financial reports. Credits for the maintenance of liquid liquidity and the purchase of crafts are granted under the following conditions. The maturity of the loan is 48 months, and there is a grace period, which is 18 months, interest or interest rate on this loan is 1% on the annual level. This is important that loans are approved and returned to dinars. The minimum amount of credit is set for one user of credit for companies is up to a million dinars, and for entrepreneurs and cooperatives is 200,000 dinars. The maximum amount of credit has also been determined for businessmen or entrepreneurs and macro-legislators is up to 10 million dinars, for small legal entities up to 60 million dinars, for medium-sized legal entities is 100 million dinars. The repayment of the loan is carried out in monthly annuities, and for the grace period the interest is calculated and attributed to the main debt. The maximum amount of the loan granted may be up to 50% of the business revenues achieved following the submission of the financial report for 2012-2019. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Depending on the amount of credit, credit users provide certain security funds. The following conditions, special conditions, apply to economic operators whose main activity is in the field of tourism, catering and passenger traffic. The maturity of the loans to these companies is five years, and the grace period is up to two years. It's the same interest 1% on the annual level, same loans are approved in dinars and returned to dinars. The minimum amount remains the same for one credit user up to a million dinars, and for entrepreneurs and cooperatives up to 200,000 dinars. There are some differences in the maximum amount of credit. For entrepreneurs and micro-legislators, up to ten million dinars, the maximum amount for small legal entities is up to 70 million, and for medium legal persons is 110 million dinars. The maximum amount of the loan granted can be 80% of the business revenues achieved following the submitted financial report for 2019. There's a difference here too. The repayment of the loan will take place in monthly annuities, and the grace period, as I said, in the grace period interest is calculated and attributed to the main debt. Depending on credit, credit users supply certain security funds, such as bond, guarantee, first-row mortgage and of course supplies to equipment, vehicle, etc. The Ministry of Business will sign a contract with the Fund, a commission contract relating to the implementation of this law, which will be transferred to the Fund to the processing obligation for business entities for this loan and in accordance with the Regulation adopted at the Fund by 10 December 2020. The obligation to conclude a loan contract is the same with the economic operators as the Fund's obligation, as well as the control of the dedicated use of these credit assets. Following the conclusion of the contract with the Fund, the Ministry will temporarily transfer funds to the European Investment Bank for the implementation of this law. The Management Board of the Fund shall take a decision by 31 December 2021 at the latest on the basis of the requests made by 10 December 2010, which, by the date of entry into force of this law, has not been decided, up to the level of the resources available under this law. Only one application for an economic operator may be granted under this law. At the request of the ministry, the Fund will submit periodic reports on the implementation and control of the law until the last loan is paid. The Fund will submit annual reports on the implementation of this law to the ministry, and the ministry will draft and deliver the report to the government, so that the government is informed of the implementation of this law. The fund received in one month, on the basis of monthly credit-burst facilities under approved loans, financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget and from the European Investment Bank's credit line, will return to the Republic of Serbia's budget at the beginning of next month, as well as all other funds recovered by credit-users. Finally, the SVM parliamentary group will support these laws and will vote for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8545	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8546	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, in today's debate, we have a very important proposal for a agricultural census law in 2023. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that our PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal for a agricultural census law in 2023, as well as other points of the agenda of this session, i.e. this session. The proposal for a agricultural census law in 2023 treats one specific but very important area of statistics as the basis for each successful planning. For our country in which agricultural production remains a significant part of GDP and where more than 40% of the population still lives in the country of collection and processing of such data must be a job of the highest state priority and conditions must be created in order to perform it reliably and efficiently. This seems to be the law we're discussing today, and it's a good thing today this law is in debate. The law stipulates that this list will be carried out in principle from 1 June to 31 December 2023 and that the Director of the Republic Statistics Office will decide on the exact date of the start of the census. It will be done in a traditional way this time – by means of a direct data collection method through interviews and by a censusor. It is also good that it is open to data to be collected via the Internet, by sending a filled questionnaire, because we and the country have an insignificant number of people who have long used the Internet. This law in Article 5 defines that the list includes, under one, family agricultural holdings, under two, companies, agricultural cooperatives, institutions or other legal entities, as well as entrepreneurs registered to primarily carry out agricultural production activities. Article 6 of this proposal defines that the list does not cover households with its own agricultural production, which is not intended for the market and does not exceed the physical threshold established in accordance with the methodology of the list of the Republic Statistics Office, as well as households, companies and entrepreneurs that do not carry out agricultural production. I'm interested in what the proposer was doing when he excluded these households from the list. I personally believe that these households should be subject to the list, if we know that in the methodological instructions of the Republic Statistics Office, these small households are also producing for the market, but they have been excluded from data collection. Thus, the question arises as to how the physical threshold of production is determined, and this should be taken from the aspect of the manufacturers in mountain and mountainous and border areas, and we know what the conditions for the production of large-scale consumption are in these conditions. It is necessary to consider the possibility of reducing the physical threshold for production, in order for these households to be included in the list in 2023. Article 8 defines which data is to be collected. Here are some standard data concerning agricultural production - processed areas, plantations, the number of cattle throats, etc. The authorities that will carry out the census are then defined, starting with the ministry through local, municipal and city administrations, to the list committees and censuses themselves. For the sake of greater efficiency, Article 16(2) provides that those data that exist and available data sources in the records kept by the state authorities will be collected from these data and will not be collected on the ground. The Statistics Office means that the data entered is correct, but perhaps this list is an opportunity to perform a verification of that data. Data implementation deadlines are scheduled for 31 January 2024 for preliminary and 31 December 2025 for final results. Of course, standard provisions guaranteeing the ban on data abuse as well as the possibility to impose obligations on citizens by state authorities are also provided. That is why it is necessary to move forward before the census begins to promote these prescribed actions, in order to free people from the fear that the state will do so in order to further tax and impose various duties. In the previous period, censusors met to avoid providing basic and accurate data, i.e. to reduce the number of cattle' throats or real working surfaces, which should not be the case in this list if we indicate in due time that it is a very good intention and help this type of work. If we know all of this, we can conclude that this bill contains all the necessary provisions to begin the organisation and preparation in time for the implementation of the list itself, in order to implement it properly. On this bill, I would still like to make two suggestions for the government's authorised representative. First of all, I think that in the part of the text of the law relating to the authorities and their responsibilities in the census process, it was necessary to include the Ministry of Agriculture in the village, although in its jurisdiction there are no questions related to the direct agricultural production which is subject to the list. According to the current legal provisions, this ministry also deals with strategically looking at the position of the village and the rural population, as well as proposing measures and activities to improve the conditions of life and work in the country. Therefore, I think that the data that will be collected and processed and as regards the domains of the Ministry's jurisdiction, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture of the Village. His representatives, from Minister Krkobbic, via state secretaries and ministerial assistants, are almost daily on the ground and are familiar with the practical problems of working and living in the country. I think that such experience and advice can be used to serve in the process of giving an opinion on the methodology of the list and the contents of the list of questionnaires, the promotion of the list itself, which is already given to the Ministry of Agriculture as the jurisdiction of the bill. By launching a grant programme for the purchase of rural houses with a garden in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the village's ministry opens up the possibility for younger than 45 years to activate dead property in the country, to give it and only in the country new life and new activities. The assessment by the ministry and Minister Krkobic is that there are nearly 200,000 houses not used in Serbia's villages. Thus, these new village residents will improve the average age of farmers. Just for a reminder, the average age of farmers in 2012 was 59 years of life, and that the average year of life for farmers in 2018 was 61 years, which means that our family owners are on average getting older by any subsequent period. The number of landowners alone has been reduced during this period. There were 631,552 holdings in 2012, and in 2018 569,310 owners, which means that we have also reduced the number of agricultural holdings. Another thing I'd like to suggest may be a little bit out of the law itself, but I think it's connected to him. Namely, in Article 5. The draft law provides for the list to cover family agricultural holdings, companies and agricultural cooperatives mainly engaged in agriculture and other legal entities that have their own branches, which are related to agriculture. This is certainly the natural matter to which this list should be addressed, but if this job is already being done, it may be necessary to consider taking into account the list of various abandoned housing facilities by village, as well as the facilities that are intended for agricultural purposes. In the late '70s and early '80s, we had an intense promotional so-called. a green plan, within which almost every village was built by some object of importance for agricultural production, from buying-in stations for milk, small warehouses and silos, livestock farms, to diesel fuel pumps, as well as a number of other facilities that were used for agricultural production. These facilities were in social property and were mostly managed by agricultural cooperatives, cooperative organisations or local communities, but a good part of them is currently abandoned, as those legal entities eventually disappeared or lost interest in maintaining these facilities. I'm not sure if we as a state have a list of these objects somewhere, and since I'm assuming it's not there, I think it would be a good time to approach that part of the business, or a list of such objects. I wouldn't take much time away from the censusors and the list committees, but it would be more useful for the state to know how many such objects are, in what state they are in, who's their title holder, so that where it's objectively possible to try and re-establish them and re-function them, which I think would be worth twice as much to both the state and local self-government. Today’s agenda includes two interrelated laws that help the economy as a result of the covid epidemic. They are also creating an opportunity to meet the demands of those entrepreneurs of companies and cooperatives who applied for a loan from the Development Fund, according to an earlier government regulation on financial support, from April of last year, and so far their demands have not been decided. The law stipulates that they will be able to get credit for a four-year period, with a grace period of 18 months. The maximum amount of loans from one million to 100 million dinars have been set, depending on the size of the entities, while conditions for the activity of tourism and traffic will be even more favourable. I certainly think that these are very positive solutions, which will allow certain structures to work better and more successfully in this segment of income activity. The total amount of these loans will be 12 billion dinars and is provided by the European Investment Bank. This will certainly represent another kind of help for our economy, which is in enviable speed recovering from an outbreak of covids, and that information and data we received from the minister in his opening presentation. Dear People's MPs and MPs, since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for their adoption. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote "yes". Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8547	Thank you. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8548	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have several legislative proposals for different areas. One of these legislative proposals, specifically the List, concerns an area whose minister you are, but since you are the Deputy Prime Minister, and that today we are talking, among other things, about legislative proposals relating specifically to Kovid, I will take the opportunity to appeal to all citizens of Serbia at the very beginning of my presentation. Keeping in mind the percentage, first of all, of vaccinations at this point, keeping in mind the percentage of vaccination when it comes to young people and keeping in mind that at this moment we all have one common goal and one common battle that we must overcome, the common goal we must realize, to show the responsible relationship that the state has shown since March to date, to behave responsibly, seriously, rationally, to respect the advice and recommendations of the profession, because the only way to face and overcome this health challenge that both Serbia and the whole world are complete and collective immunization. If the state of Serbia could be the only country in Europe that had all four vaccines in the previous time period, if we could start producing and investing first in “Torak”, and then also with the production of Sputnik-V in “Torlak”, if in mid-October production of a new Sinofarm vaccine factory, the capacity of two million, so there will be a vaccine for the region, at least the citizens of Serbia can do is that they have a high degree of personal responsibility and that they are vaccinated, because in this way they will preserve themselves, thus preserving others and thus we will think, first of all, about Serbia's future. Because here, when we talk about vaccination, we are talking first and foremost about Serbia's future and the future of every Serbian citizen. When it comes to the legal proposals that we are talking about today, first of all, the proposal for a agricultural list law. So Serbia is a traditionally agricultural country, and agriculture is recognised in a number of strategic documents both in the prime minister's exposé of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the laws and a series of other acts as one of the basic strategic directions of development. I will remind you, the Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025, then the Strategy for the Development of Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2014 to 2024 and many others. So, today on the agenda, the 2023 List of Agricultural Law, which will be financed in part, as defined by the law, by the budget, 33%, and most of the IPA Funds, amounting to 67% of the total cost. The description of agriculture in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group is a very important and complex job that requires multi-annual planning and coordination in the work of a number of participants, methodological preparation, development of information and communication systems, training and above all instruction. This process, which will be conducted from June to December 2023, will include around 3,500 censuses, as envisaged, almost half as much as on the previous census. These statistical surveys give us one, I would say, a comprehensive review of the structural characteristics of national agriculture, a register of agricultural holdings, an internationally comparable database is being developed. I'll remind you, the last list of farms was made in 2012. According to the results of the census in Serbia, there were close to 632,000 agricultural holdings, while survey results in 2018 showed that the number of these households decreased by about 10%, not good. At the time, the largest registered number of owners was in Zlatiborska, then Belgrade and the Mačvanski district, and the smallest were in the Borsko and Pirot County. One of the biggest problems facing Europe as a whole, and our country is the issue of demographics and rural depopulations. Many parts of Serbia and the rural areas unfortunately remain empty and abandoned. The old-fashioned structure of the family gymnastics bearer is very unfavourable. Over 65 years of age, according to some data 42.5% of farmers, and under 35 is only 3.1% of the total number of farmers. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly to allow these young people to survive in the country, but also to give certain incentive measures to those young people who left the villages to return to the rural area. In this regard, I would like to commend, above all, the programme on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, the grant of grants for the purchase of rural houses. 500 million dinars have been identified for this programme and can only be reported under 45 years of age. The goal is for all young people who want to deal with agriculture, to look for their opportunities in villages to return to abandoned rural households and to revive the village in this way. We believe that this is an extremely important and significant move and that it has complete justification. Currently, the most agricultural landowners under the age of 40 are located in the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia. The pandemic caused by the coronary virus has awakened our awareness of the importance of one of the most important economic activities, which is agriculture. At the moment it all stopped, thanks to our own potentials and production, we were able to rely on our own resources, even to be solid at the most difficult times and to export food even to other countries. Today we have two legislative proposals to bring an even better economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. The whole world and the world's economy, and thus Serbia continues to face numerous risks, with numerous challenges, uncertainty caused by the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. These two legislative proposals aim to mitigate these negative consequences, in order to preserve the stability of the financial and economic system, and all to speed up the country's recovery and growth of economic activity. Very short, the draft law confirming the financial contract Kovid 19 – Supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia for small and medium-sized enterprises and the capitalisation market between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, enabled the borrowing of the European Investment Bank of 200m euros, out of which 110m euros are defined for crafts, i.e. maintaining the current liquidity, while 90m euros are intended for investment activities. It's for buying and getting equipment. All of this should contribute to the reduction of the negative consequences of the pandemic, the preservation of employment, as well as the growth and development of medium and small enterprises, as well as the economies of our country as a whole. When it comes to the proposal for a law establishing financial support for economic operators to maintain liquidity and trade assets in difficult economic conditions due to the Kovid 19 pandemic, given that there is a necessary need to help the domestic economy, this law will provide funds for economic operators, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as enterprises with medium-market capitalisation that have submitted a request for lending to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, ending on 10 December 2020. This will allow survival, as well as the performance of the most vulnerable sectors of the economy. So Serbia continues its policy of helping businesses and citizens. These legal proposals to support our economic operators actually send a message that the state is stable and strong. Once again, I will repeat what we have talked about many times so far when we spoke as a parliamentary group of economic indicators, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, the SPS supports, of course, an economic policy that is primarily socially responsible. The economic policy that has a human, ordinary Serbian citizen in its centre, is precisely the economic policy that the government of the Republic of Serbia is currently running. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, has shown since March of the month, from the moment the pandemic began, unfortunately, to this day, that the system can function when it is most difficult, and not only has the system worked, but it has achieved certain results. Economic indicators and economic parameters are in favour of this finding. That blackest scenario has been avoided, unfortunately, in many countries of Europe and in many countries of the world. The measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, I will repeat, during which they were taken from March to this day, are fully justified. They were intended, above all, to maintain fiscal stability, to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements, to accept all those initiatives and incentives leading to development, which is of great importance and importance, and on the other hand, we still believe that they had certain target groups and that they had complete justification in this context. What were the target groups? To preserve above all the level of employment in Serbia, to take care of the existence and living standards of citizens, but also to help Serbia's economy. Serbia's economy and, above all, the private sector, because the private sector is the future, the private sector is a blood flow, the state lives in some way from the private sector by collecting taxes and taxes from the private sector. We believe that investment in the private sector is an investment in the future. In the period from March to today, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world, because this health challenge is not only facing Serbia, but the whole world, three key issues in our opinion were. Were there layoffs, did workers run out of work, closed factories, and did foreign investors give up investing in Serbia? The answer to all three questions is no. There were neither layoffs nor closed factories, nor workers were out of work. Over the past year, therefore, 2020, it seems to me that foreign direct investment was totaling around three billion euros. In just four months this year, foreign direct investment has even reached a billion euros. So foreign investors do not invest where there is no legal certainty, where there is no business security, where there is no attractive investment destination, and Serbia certainly is an attractive investment destination and it is not by chance the Financial Times, but several years ago has classified Serbia as the most attractive investment destination. When it came to the measures I spoke of, therefore, the biggest burden of the crisis during the pandemic of the state has just accepted on itself, first a 800 billion dinar aid package, then, the budget rebalance has set aside another 257.1 billion dinars, which is about 4.3% of GDP. So when we add it all together, it's about 17.2% of GDP. I don't think any country in the world has taken this much of a burden of crisis on itself. Of course, Serbia couldn't have done that if it hadn't been for the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose foundations were just set in 2014. At the time, many said that we were taking salaries, taking pensions, and they didn't realize that they were actually measures to save the Serbian economy and that they were measures concerning Serbia's future. Had it not been for these brave and then unpopular political measures, we today would not have a healthy system based on sound foundations, so on economics and life, and not on what can be defined in some way as a list of good wishes and what, if implemented economically, Serbia would have been from 2014 to 2016. In the year, there was financial bankruptcy and financial collapse. So, on every criticism, the results certainly represent the best possible answer. In 2021, we talked about this during the adoption of the budget for this year, Serbia entered a strong and economically stable economy on stable feet, with the highest rate of economic growth in Europe, which we are proud of, but with full confidence that we will realise that the projected GDP rate, which our colleague Starcevic also spoke of for a little while, of 6%. I see the president of the state has raised the scale. We from the SPS parliamentary group think it's very good. There is always a scale to be raised, it is good for Serbia's future, for new tasks to be given new tasks and to define new goals. So we also fully support the three pillars that have been defined through the 2021 budget. First of all, we are thinking of column number one - the fight against the crown, enough resources allocated for all that is necessary to continue the successful fight against the crown, and that is why at the very beginning I have appealed to a responsible, serious and rational relationship primarily for the citizens of Serbia who have not been vaccinated until this time period, because no moment has been delayed in Serbia. The second pillar – the standard of living of citizens. Tell me one country in Europe, tell me one country in the world that has made it possible for her to increase pensions by 5.9% during the pandemic period, to increase public sector wages by 3.5% first, then 1.5%, 6.6% minimum labour price, to increase healthcare workers' salaries by 6%, not to talk about one-off pensioners and healthcare workers about 120,000 healthcare workers of 10,000 dinars. Has one country in Europe, has a country in the world taken on such a burden of economic crisis, so much of the burden of crisis on itself and on its shoulders? I repeat, we couldn't have done all this if we hadn't done a healthy system based on sound foundations. They laughed at us in 2019 when we talked about budget rebalancing here. I'm sorry that Minister Sinisha Mali isn't here today, because we've talked about this more than once. They laughed at us when we said that we do not have budget rebalancing because we have expenditures, but because we have bigger revenues and because we are putting an end to the reform course process of the Government of Serbia and we are starting a new stage and stage, which is development, growth and development. If that hadn't been done in 2021, they wouldn't have gone in strong and economically stable. Also, the third pillar is extremely important, which is investment in capital investments, investment in infrastructure. There is no economic without infrastructure development, and life in Serbia must not stop, and this shows one piece of information that, during the period of the largest hotspot from January to November of last year, capital investments worth around 146.7 billion dinars were realised, which is 14.7% more than the same period of the previous year. We fully support greater allocations for capital investments for infrastructure projects. First, 330 billion dinars were singled out, then rebalanced another 88 billion dinars. So it's never been allocated to capital investment and infrastructure projects again. What does that mean? He wants to take a good starting position when we're done with this, when we finally manage to beat this pandemic period, when we succeed in defeating this health challenge, that we have a good starting position so that we can move on with economic growth. Of course, in the voting day as a parliamentary group, of course, the SPS will support these two proposals. At the very end, I would refer to the agreement with Italy. Every collaboration, every connection, every bilateral co-operation that goes one way up, we think it's good. Our bilateral relations are highly developed, they're intense and with a 140-year tradition. I would point out the importance of maintaining good diplomatic relations. Our two countries' close and friendly relationships are best told by the fact that when it was most difficult we were always there for each other. As an act of gratitude to Italy for the assistance they gave us during 2014 and the unprecedented floods in our country, we showed solidarity in the donation of medical equipment, help, even though we faced the crown crisis ourselves. It is the confirmation of good bilateral relations, the confirmation of good parliamentary co-operation confirms that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is visiting Italy and the important talks he is having with officials at the moment, and that we are fully convinced, will bring good results on the bilateral plan for Serbia, both for parliamentary co-operation and in general on the bilateral plan. So, once again, in voting day, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support proposed legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8549	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vucic – To our children" Ana Čaapić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8550	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of today's debate, we had the opportunity to hear from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, by the legislators of the law, and during the debate and by fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, to have four draft laws on the agenda today, namely: the draft law on the list of agriculture that is scheduled to be carried out in 2023, the draft law on the establishment of a programme of financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets in difficult economic conditions under Kovida-19, the proposal for a law on the validation of the Financial Treaty of Kovid-19 support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of medium-sized capitalisation, and that between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and finally the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia's, the Republic of Slovenia's social security and the Republic of Kosovo. During today's debate, we had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues, when it came to the proposal for a agricultural list law, that the agricultural list was planned to take place in 2023, in the period from June 1st to December 31st. The list of farms will last for 75 days, while the exact date of the start of the census will be determined by the Director of the Republic Statistics Office. The implementation of the list is one of the most complex statistical surveys, and the aim of the list is to obtain reliable and quality data. It is precisely the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry that precise and quality data are needed, so that adequate agrarian policy measures can be implemented in the coming period. All the details of the bill were given the opportunity to hear during the debate. What is very important to me, as a master economist, is that the funds for carrying out the census are provided by the European Union, through IPA 2018, as much as 67% of the funds, while 33% will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Otherwise, the legal solution stipulates that the census will cost 7,917,000 dinars. What I find very important to the citizens is that when the law was made, savings were thought of. The list to be made in 2023 will cost as much as 43% less than the last census made in 2012. The reason is that the same equipment will be used for the list of farms in 2023, equipment and laptops to be used for the census of the population, households and dwellings planned to be carried out in October 2021, provided that these epidemiological conditions allow, given that a huge number of epidemiologists are suffering from the fourth wave of the coronary virus. With this in mind, I will take the opportunity, as did my colleague from the SPS parliamentary group Djordje Milicevic, to appeal to all citizens in Serbia, if they have not done so so far, to be vaccinated. And I, and all of my colleagues, and members of our families, have been vaccinated and so I ask you not to be difficult to go to the nearest vaccine point and receive the desired vaccine. That way you protect yourself and the people around you and help your own country fight this monster as soon as possible. When we talk about agriculture, we all know very well that the Republic of Serbia has excellent climate conditions, but that the characteristics of agricultural land are very good. Agricultural production and food industry both take a significant place in the creation of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Serbia and thus agricultural production has been recognised as one of the basic development routes for individual municipalities and cities, as well as for the entire regions. What is evident and what data says and confirms is that it has never again been invested and granted for incentives in agricultural production rather than in the last eight years, and when it comes to increasing the agrarian budget which is growing from year to year, and when it comes to investments in the irrigation system and in the anti-urban protection system, but also when it comes to direct incentives to agricultural producers, but also to indirect incentives such as subsidised loans. If we look at the subsidized loans and if we look at the period from 2012 to 2020, given that we still have no data for this year, because the approval of the subsidized loans is under way, the deadline runs until 1 November, in 2012, only 5,000 requests were granted on behalf of the subsidized loans, while in 2020, therefore, in the crisis year, two and a half times higher, about 13,000 requests were granted. If we look at it in cash, in 2012 five billion dinars were paid on behalf of the subsidized loans, and in 2020, therefore, under the conditions of the crisis, three and a half times more, about 17 billion dinars were paid. So these are just incentives to be paid through the Agrarian Payments Authority. We must in no way forget that the vast number of local self-governments in their local budgets are huge means of fostering agriculture. So, for example, my municipality, the municipality of Kurzumli, where I come from, each year defines significant means of incentives in agriculture. This year, therefore, for 2021 we have defined as much as 20 million dinars for incentives related to meat, milk, fruit, cereals, industrial plants, beekeeping, etc. How much progress we have made when it comes to agriculture and how close we have come to the most developed countries bear witness to the number of insurance policies concluded between insurance companies and agricultural producers. In 2011, we had about 9,000 contracted insurance policies, while in 2020 nearly two and a half times higher, we have about 21,000 completed insurance policies between insurance companies and agricultural producers. Why am I saying this? Because it's very important. It is important that we have influenced the awareness of agricultural producers, to raise awareness of the importance of the insurance of agricultural production, because developed countries are also working, and this number of policy-making policies, testifys that the rule of law has been established in Serbia and that citizens believe in their institutions. Unlike those who destroyed Serbia, from 2000 to 2012, and who were opposition to their own people and the state, and the government itself and its own pockets, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the SNS, puts Serbia's citizens' interests first. As they, before us, left the ruins behind by 2012, the congested factories, jobless workers, SNS, or the government of the Republic of Serbia led by the SNS, the money of Serbian citizens directed towards the construction of roads, hospitals, railways, schools, clinical centres, highways, apartments for security forces, so all that is necessary for Serbian citizens. You know, when you ask the citizens of Serbia, what they think of Alexander Vukic, the first thing you hear is that he's a man who works all the time. Simply, Serbian citizens wonder if this man is ever resting. Then, you hear from Serbian citizens, that this is a man who increases their salaries and pensions, increasing the standard of living in Serbia. When you ask Serbian citizens about any of the previous regime's representatives, you hear they're thieves, who stole them, who took their right to work and to live from their own work. So you hear all the worst. The government of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the President of the Republic, is directing all its resources to help the economy and citizens, under conditions of crisis to cope with this crisis as easily as possible, caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Because we've been doing great in the past seven years, in 2020 we've welcomed ready, so we've filled all the financial tanks and we could, even best in the region, cope with the pandemic that was caused by Kovid 19. Let us remember in 2014, when Mr Dusan Vujovic, then finance minister, said that 78 days away from bankruptcy, due to the poor policy of the previous government. In 2012, international credit rating agencies lost their full trust in our country, while today international credit rating agencies are assessing us with high scores, with positive estimates and we are one step away from the investment credit rating. When it comes to the IMF and the World Bank, 2012, the previous government kicked both the IMF and the World Bank, because several programmes failed and left Serbia without a job done. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia can boast of successful co-operation with the IMF and, the IMF and the World Bank, assess all macroeconomic indicators in Serbia today with high scores. Not only that, the IMF is constantly revising its estimates, when it comes to macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Serbia. Remember that in November of the month, the IMF predicted that in 2021 we would end up with an economic growth of 5%, but about a month and a half ago, the IMF revised its forecasts for Serbia and said that in 2021, we will end up with a rate of economic growth of as much as 6%, which will be one of the best results in Europe. Imagine that the same members of the previous regime, who drove the IMF and the World Bank out of Serbia, are now telling us what we should do, and everything they knew and knew has been shown by 2012. Serbia successfully completed an arrangement with the IMF at the beginning of the year, which lasted 30 months. The arrangement was an advisory character and was popularly referred to as "a guard". So Serbia is not asking for any money from the IMF, because Serbia does not need money. Also, a month ago, we made another arrangement with the IMF, which is also an advisory character, and which will help us to successfully implement structural reforms in Serbia, modelled by developed countries. Thanks to responsible policy, thanks to the results we have achieved, thanks to the political will to deal with fiscal measures, we have welcomed 2020 and through three economic support packages, so two in 2020 and another in 2021 worth more than eight billion euros, we have helped businesses and citizens to cope with the crisis as easily as possible. That is not all, we continue to help businesses in the coming period, and this is the contribution and the bill we are discussing today, which is the proposal for a law on the establishment of a financial support programme for economic operators to maintain liquidity and crafts. When the epidemic broke out and immediately, in April, after the outbreak, we defined the first economic package of support, many criticised us that our measures were not well set, that our measures were linear, and all countries in the world defined the first measures as linear, because no one had time to deal with targeted interventions. That our measures are well tailored, show macroeconomic indicators, show the results we have achieved, and the proposal on financial support, which we are discussing today, because just after the adoption of this law, and I hope that we will pass the law at the end of today's debate, we will help to make as many as 7,036 economic operators, who have applied for the Development Fund by 20 December, exercise their right to receive favourable loans that are being placed through the Development Fund. This much interest in economic operators suggests that our measures and how well they were tailored. On the other hand, by adopting the Law on Confirmation of the Financial Contract, Kovid 19 – the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for small and medium-sized enterprises, and mid-market capitalisation enterprises, signed in Luxembourg on June 14th, and in Belgrade on June 18th, with the European Investment Bank, Serbia has actually received 200m euros in favourable credit, and these funds will be directed towards helping economic operators maintain their current liquidity, for the purchase of crafts and for investment. Just thanks to all these measures, we managed to end the second quarter of 2021 with an economic growth of as much as 15.5%, compared to the second quarter of 2020. In the second quarter of 2020, we had a 6.4% decline due to the crisis, but if we compare the second quarter of 2019 to the second quarter of 2021, we had a growth of as much as 9.1%), and we must never forget that in 2019, when it comes to economic growth was record. We've had the biggest economic growth in Europe. When it comes to foreign investment inflows, it was also said by counterpart Milicevic, in the first half of the year we had a foreign capital inflow of as much as 1.73 billion euros and Serbia is an absolute leader in the region, in terms of attracting foreign investment. What I consider to be the greatest success of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that we paid the May and June pensions out of the PIO Fund's own resources. Those are the results. It is proof that we have worked responsibly and hard during the previous period. So, after 30 years, the last time in 1992 pensions were paid to pensioners from the PIO Fund without grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the May and June pensions of the PIO Fund were paid without any help from their own incomes, which means that it's a great payment of our contributions, which means we've saved jobs, which means we've increased the employment rate, and we've reduced the unemployment rate, and we remember in 2012 because of the huge number of people who were jobless because of the unemployment rate of as much as 27%, we've had donations from the pension budget over 50%. When it comes to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on the employment of members of the families of diplomatic and administrative technical staff, this Memorandum is a proof of excellent bilateral co-operation between the two countries, so between Serbia and Italy, and we must never forget the fact that Italy has always supported us among the first on our European path. At the very end of my presentation, what I want to say is that we are, by all macroeconomic indicators, among the first in Europe. That's not what we say, that's what all international institutions say. They can make up all kinds of lies on a daily basis, but they can't challenge our economic results. Even a journalist is on their TV, I think last week, a journalist of the week said Serbia's economy has been arranged and it is a great honor for Vukic to do so. Yeah. Serbia's economy has never been better. Serbian finances have never been stronger and parliamentary groups of Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, they will support all proposals of the law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8551	Thank you. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first on the list is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8552	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, you have heard that MPs of the SPP will support the proposed laws. Of course, we are interested in everything that is on the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and agriculture as one main pillar of survival and development of all those areas that are traditionally related to this economic branch is in the focus of our interest and as such a special sensor we also have a sensitivity for this type of activity. We are particularly pleased that this list will regulate and indeed see the true state of agricultural potential, capacity, current resources, as well as that we will be able to have a fairer, fairer distribution of all that the Ministry and Government have invested for years on subsidies and different donations to farmers across the country. I'm saying this for the reasons that we've had a lot of help with previous regimes by both the government and various factors, but it didn't always end with farmers, so we had situations, let's say, and some lawsuits for the former mayors of certain cities in Sandzak, when they split the heifers, when they were distributed to those plastics, so people living in solitaries were given to the government as a non-refundable aid to plastics, and those who really went beyond that, who were deprived of that kind of support. That is why we believe that this arrangement and this list will go in this direction, that those who are really engaged in agriculture, who invest and who want to survive on their landholds can help their holdings improve and take advantage of all the opportunities offered to them through different types of projects, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire government and, of course, everything that comes through different programmes from the European Union when it comes to subsidising agricultural work. As we rejoiced, we considered it a positive part of the country's resuscitation of abandoned rural houses and their position to young people who want to deal with agriculture and who see in it a chance to develop their own business and what represents the future of them and their families. It is also very important for us to have this second set of aid to all those affected by the consequences of the pigs, as was very important at the time for the survival of many operators in the previous period and what came from the state in terms of subsidies, aid, support meant the survival of a large number of economic operators, even if they survive further in business, so we believe that all of this, which is foreseen, will mean to many that even though they survive this very difficult challenging period that we all face together. Of course, it should always be added, so it's a little weird why... Involved churches and religious communities, because they have a large number of people who need help, and I think you should consider that in the same way these people, traditional religious communities and churches also help, given that these people who are religious persons also have a family and are very difficult to deal with all these challenges of covids. We therefore believe that this category should also be included in the total packages so that they and their families can be more easily and easily represented throughout this process. As every time, I really want to give recognition to everything that has been done in the previous period with regard to the suppression and prevention of certain types of problems that ordinary citizens face when it comes to the consequences of the pandemic of covids and we believe that the state has responded in the most efficient way and full capacity to all the challenges we have faced and we believe that in the coming period it will also have a good reflection that in any situation an adequate response and that citizens go through all these trials as easily as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8553	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8554	Thank you. The list of farms is good and necessary, but there's another list that's already beginning to be said to be delayed, and that's the population list. That way, under the rule of the Serbian Progressive Party in Serbia, we finally know how many cattle we have, but we don't know how many people we have. The problem is when you don't know how many people there are is that you don't know how many adult citizens live in Serbia, and then you don't even know how many voters we have, there's a problem that all previous authorities have, and yours has often used to manipulate the electoral lists. In order for that not to happen, I hope that, dear fellow advances, you will still hold that census. When we look at these financial agreements that owe Serbia another 200m euros from the European Investment Bank, I would like to remind you that in addition to the economic cost of the loan that is the interest exists when it comes to loans from the Brussels Union and the political price of those loans. The political price is the blackmail we receive from Brussels to give up our national interests, and so we come into the situation that "jenderisation" and "gathering" of Serbia, which is happening through Comic's laws, is one of the kinds of these blackmails. We don't know if there's going to be another one of these blackmails about giving up the defence of KIM in Serbia soon or whether we're going to bring a resolution to Srebrenica where the imaginary genocide would put itself on the burden and burden of future generations. So if two-thirds of our economic life depends on the EU, we are constantly being blackmailed by each other by borrowing them, we are being even more blackmailed, and that is not necessarily showing the history of our people. In 1903, Austria had no alternative for Serbia, and then people who wanted to restore sovereignty to Serbia came to power. Austria recognized this and in just three years it launched a Customs War in which four-fifths of our exports, which went to Austria, simply sanctioned, but in those three years those people who wanted sovereign Serbia managed to make a trade in exports, to get to other markets, to reach other partners, to transfer those four-fifths of our exports to their friends and thus avoid sanctions from Austria and to come out of the Customs War as winners. The Serbian Progressive Party has been in power for nine years and we still have two-thirds of the natural life related to the EU, and as I see it, you are trying to bind us even more to them. Unlike this political price that Brussels exposes with each of its loans, this blackmail and these political prices do not exist when you take loans from some other countries that also have capital and why you do not do it is a big question that leads us to perhaps ask whether some of you do not want Serbia's sovereignty, but they want the Brussels Union in this space at all costs. There are a lot of people in the SNS who don't think so, and I think it's high time for their friends who think so to deny their support, but that's your thing, and what's not your thing is another one of the blackmails that comes from Brussels that you're going to vote for, and that's Zagorka Dolovac's choice for the Republic Public Prosecutor. If we remember what you're always talking about here, and what you've always said, between 2009 and 2012, the yellow regime has done great corruption, done criminalization of our premises, and that's why it's been removed, but if Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac at that point was the Republic Public Prosecutor, then the most responsible for fighting crime, because that's her authority, and she didn't, how come you're voting for her now? Or you're making up that the yellow regime was corrupt and it made up the country between 2009 and 2012, which I say you're not making up, it's true, or you, the respected friends of the SNS, about the choice of people in the prosecutions, courts, and you're asking just as much as my Sumadinians would say, who's bawling with underpants. That's why I won't vote for your laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8555	I didn't understand what this was the last thing you said and, as you can see, it's no problem to say whatever you want, but, just so you know, what you were talking about was on the agenda yesterday, when you were reported, but you didn't come to the O.R. Just so you have information on what we're talking about the other day. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, it's doable. The Democratic Party of Serbia's Parole at the start of the EU's convergence process was a condition for the EU integration process to continue. At the time, the organisation that called itself Dvori received 50,000 euros through the Democratic Party of Serbia party, it seems to me from the Kolubara mine or something. They didn't mind "it's doable", they didn't mind orientation towards the EU. She didn't mind the DSS, or those who got the money to track it is feasible and that they don't mind. They had no objection to the completion of privatisation in Serbia, the wild, predatory, or most social capital companies sold those years when it was very cheap. What was the name of that minister of business and privatisation who was later arrested? So it seems to me that he was from the Democratic Party of Serbia and it was feasible for him to leave the entire social capital to tycoons at very low prices because it was feasible to get close to the EU. At the same time, due to the EU's approach, nearly all military generals, all the heroes of the Serb army who defended their country against NATO aggression were voluntarily extradited because it was feasible. It was doable to hand over generals, sell property, etc. due to the EU's approach, which probably required it at the time. Patriotic organizations didn't mind. It had its price, so it was a magazine, so it was funded, etc. from that budget and nobody bothered because it was feasible. Foreign investors, those loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, are the bearer of economic development in each country. The loan was not taken to bribe patriotic organisations, nor was the loan taken to spend on pensions the way it was done during Boris Tadic. This money was taken to make other money. So, without investment, it's an economy like a car that doesn't get fueled. It has to stop sooner or later. Investments must be permanent. For example, two-thirds of trade, it is true, with the EU that no one is forbidden to invest in this country, and the companies that register here with foreign capital originate from the EU, come from other countries, from Russia, from China, so the EU has a lot of problem with letting the Chinese invest, and when the Chinese invest in the EU, then that's not the problem. Some of ours have problems with finance, EU investments. I'm telling you that these investments in domestic companies, where only capital comes from abroad, that that's how markets are obtained. Each one of them brings forward its own market for goods that will be produced here. So we can have some domestic company that'll make five million chairs. If you have no one to sell it to, you've completely missed your production. When an investor comes and invests capital in our foreign companies, which operates under our terms, there is usually a market in the perspective of which the goods will be placed, and through the placement of these goods we pay for other goods. You can't have a grocery store without production. It can be a service that is short-lived, while you have money, as you withdraw credits etc., and this credit is not withdrawn so that foreign goods are traded, as was the case before, but this credit is withdrawn in order to make the production that you sell outside you can finance the standard of population, pensions, salaries, etc., you can repay the loans that were withdrawn before this authority and during this government. Prior to these authorities, credits went into consumption, and this time they are going to build infrastructure, to raise the country's economic power, and that should always be supported. As far as agriculture is concerned, a Serbian peasant... There was a speech there about the cave, a Serbian peasant has been revoking the Serbian state. Serbian peasants built a modern sprawl state. What was the Serbian state resting on? Three things: the village, the faith and the army. The peasant loved, believed and loved the army. The army loved the village and everyone loved the faith. When you enter the National Assembly, you have these three petals, that tripod, and three petals of Serbian flower - peasant, army, religion. Karadjordje holds those three fingers and always reminds us that he as the founder of the modern Serbian state, that he and Milos the Great after him remind us that we must protect our country. The Serbian army practiced at the Cave in Serbia, did not practice in Turkey. The Serbian army has been practicing on its territory. The Serbian army also elects a Serbian command where the exercises will be held in Serbia's territory. The Serbian army did not practice in Turkey, but in Serbia. This should be remembered, as it should be remembered, that Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, that Serbia with a weak Serb army cannot be a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and it is normal to invite regional leaders, statesmen. As far as I know, Dodik is currently a representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina, he is a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country whose integrity we respect, as we respect and demand to respect the existence of Republika Srpska within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what's suspicious about that? It is normal to invite a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency to transfer impressions and say -- Serbia remains a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement and is strong enough to be a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, i.e. the statehood and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with respect for the Republika Srpska. Whether it bothers anyone or not, that's another question. The Serbian peasant was also a cattleman and we in this list have to see well how many paroled throats we have at this point in livestock farming. At this point, I think it's coming down somewhere, when the conditional throats of all cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, we have about a million and 600 to a million and 700 thousand conditional throats. We have five million acres of agricultural land, of which nearly three million farmland. That when you write down about that should be the result, which means that the plant potential guarantees that we can have twice as much cattle as we have at this point. So, that potential could be five million, which means we won't have 2,000 euros per hectare of production anymore, but it's going to grow, and it's especially important because of small farmers, etc., when the number of throats grows, that agricultural production per hectare is not worth 2,000 but 4,000 euros. That's why this list is very important. I will end up with other colleagues arriving to speak with Kissinger's message, why is the nutrition of Serbia important? Serbia's food sovereignty is important, which is what Kissinger said, who controls food, controls people. It is therefore important that in an environment where there are countries that do not have enough food, Serbia has enough food for itself and that there is enough food for others. The one who has food sovereignty takes a political advantage over the one who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8557	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Mr. Glissic, why do I see you in the system? Are you answering your question? On what grounds? (Vladan Glisic: To interpret Article 104) I didn't hear, on what grounds? To interpret what, yourself, your speech? You'll get a chance to have a new debate this afternoon, if you don't have too much effort to come back twice in the same day, then you can do it, there's no problem. [[Vladan Glisic: I am looking for a replica to interpret Article 104]] (Vladan Glisic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Arpad Fremond. (Vladan Glisic: Article 104) I'm right. I'm just going to ask Mr. Glissic not to throw as Mr. Fremond speaks. (Vladan Glisic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! This is rude! )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8558	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if the skill policy is possible, then the list of agricultural skills to connect the current situation on the ground at a certain point and realistic. The list of agriculture is an image of the current situation, and as much as it can't represent reality 100%, it's impossible to design without regular statistical monitoring the development of a labour force engaged in agricultural land, processed and used agricultural land, forests, pastures and ponds, which means it's impossible to create not only agricultural land, but also a policy of education of demographic movements, infrastructure and digital development, protecting the natural environment, managing climate change, developing food and processing industries. The list answers the question of how to convert scientific knowledge into agrarian policy and encourage overall social development, as it is difficult to design a strategy for the development of society, rather than taking into account key trends that show a list of agriculture and polling, depopulations of villages, reduced numbers of land, reduced areas of farmland, untapped meadows and pastures. The census in the last two decades shows that a positive change in property accumulation in Vojvodina is an average of almost 13 hectares per land, and in Serbia it is about six hectares, and the age of landowners is on average 61 years, as well as the age of machinery, or tractors more than 80% of tractors is over 20 years old. The recapitulation of indicators for the period between two agricultural censuses since 1960, when the last comprehensive list was made in the former state and 2012, when the first list of farms was made in line with the UN and EU methodology, can be found to be a devastating fact that more than 1.9m hectares or a third of total agricultural land were used in Serbia for infrastructure and other non-agrarian purposes, depending on the land price, economic damage is approximately 10 billion euros. For farmers, the list is important because the scale of agrarian policy depends on subsidising production and supporting investments both at the republican, rural and local level. For the SVM parliamentary group, it is important that the draft law has used experience from previous lists, where this proposal sets out a slightly different methodology, and that the definitions of the basic concepts surrounding which the list was held in 2012, e.g. indicate the location of the owners and what it means under family agricultural land. It wasn't a proper way to provide information. The implementation of the list is in line with the world programme and the 2020 agricultural list, which recommends that all countries carry out a list in the period from 2016 to 2025 in accordance with their specificities and to collect the minimum data necessary for the analysis and monitoring of the global strategy for the development of agricultural and rural development statistics. In line with the 2020 FAO recommendations, a list of agriculture was planned in the EU Member States and although there were some derogations due to the Kovid-19 pandemic. In a number of countries, the list has been implemented and the results have been published. The aim of the list of agriculture in EU Member States is to define indicators, indicators of the success of the common agricultural policy. To that end, some 300 variables are collected and analysed during the census. In the process of adopting legal fluids, the EU has just been harmonising with Regulation 2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is prescribed by the keeping of integrated statistics on agricultural holdings, a 10-year list in the three-year survey period, the reason why we are discussing today the proposal for a agricultural list law. The bill is in line with the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2014 to 2024, as well as with the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. In the process of accession and accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, census data will be used to report progress in several negotiating chapters and will certainly be an important step towards opening Cluster 5 – resources, agriculture and cohesion policy. For the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, co-operation with national councils of national minorities is of particular importance, e.g. cooperation on the translation of questionnaires and promotional material. Of course, the preparation of census material in minority languages is an important indicator of the participation of respondents of national minorities in teams on the ground to report progress in the implementation of the Action Plan for Chapter 23 and in particular of the Manjin Action Plan. We must remind that good preparation has already been made for the previous list of agriculture, which was preceded by the 2011 census, when the census data has been translated into eight languages of national minorities. It is also important to point out that it will certainly be particularly appreciated in the assessment of progress in the European Commission's report that the implementation of the list is further facilitated by the good networking of databases, so that statistical registers of agricultural holdings, the register of agricultural holdings of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water production, as well as information from the census and households and apartments to be implemented in October 2022. It is of particular importance that the results of the census are practically defined by quotas in the accession negotiations between Serbia and the EU, more specifically the basis for the withdrawal of pre-defensive funds from the EU funds. We must not forget the fact that even during the 2012 census, as well as during the 2018 survey on the structure of agricultural holdings, there is a number of farmers expressing skepticism and resistance to the list for various reasons. For example, fear of new tax burdens has led farmers to give incomplete data on areas and categories of land used because of the fear of losing the property of insurance companies, because they also work as a result of poor years or subsidies. It is certain that the fears of farmers have been removed in at least one part, as far as the additions are concerned. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance established that the property of the farmer's insurance company does not cease because of the conduct of contracts. As for data accuracy, for example, in Romania we see the consequences of false statistics. Romania has been granted a quota of five billion litres of milk, i.e. a million cows that give up 5,000 liters of milk, which means they can apply for EU funding in this context. That's why there was a slaughter of cattle in Romania because only a million of them could count on subsidies. The results of the list are also significant because of the continuity and comparison with the results of previous structural research, as well as the quality data that enable the analysis of trends and projections of the development of agriculture. Trends show, not only to reduce the area of farmland, but also to reduce the number of agricultural holdings. The 2002 census recorded nearly 800,000 agricultural holdings, of which in Vojvodina about 200,000 owners. Agricultural census data in 2012 showed that Serbia has little more than 630,000 agricultural holdings, then 150,000 in Vojvodina. In 2018, the first survey was conducted on the structure of agricultural holdings. The number of agricultural holdings in Serbia is about 560,000, and of which is around 27,000 in Vojvodina. There are numerous causes of a fall in the number of agricultural holdings. In particular, insufficient investment, insufficient investment that would affect productivity and production volumes, for example. ahead of the new EU budget cycle since 2014. The estimates were that the EU invests in 130 dollars a year per capita, while Serbia invested $29 per capita. In 2020, through the funds of the common agricultural policy, EU farmers were supported with nearly 59 billion euros, representing about 35% of the EU's total budget. No matter the difficulty, we must look ahead. Agriculture is a key branch of our economy, and therefore we believe that we need to invest more in agriculture. The strategic goal is for Serbia to join the EU as soon as possible, to be an EU member, because then our farmers will receive a significantly higher amount for agriculture, both per hectare and for cattle and for various investments. In particular, by putting the future, safety and security of farmers and their assets first, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support the proposal for a agricultural census law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8559	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8560	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, I would like to refer on behalf of my parliamentary group to the proposal for a law establishing financial support for economic operators to maintain liquidity and a bill confirming a financial contract between our country and the European Investment Bank, which will provide significant funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises. If we look back at the period from March 2020 to today, despite numerous crisis situations, we believe that the Serbian government has managed to find a way to overcome the problems of society and the social sectors with timely reaction and measures that have been appropriate. Still, we can't say that the problems are completely solved. And in the next period there will be challenges, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that are pandemics. Its consequences are extremely affected, and the government's measures and activities are considered necessary to preserve the stability of the financial and economic system, as Serbia faces a number, i.e. A huge number of credit requests. In addition to the tax reliefs that occurred in the previous period, this is also important support, as credit allocations will be arranged for economic operators, which have submitted the request for credit to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. It's a direct assumption that this way... I'm just asking my colleagues for some peace, if that's possible. Thank you. Therefore, it is a direct assumption that this will mitigate the negative consequences that SMEs have suffered and thus increase their liquidity. If we look at relevant data from the Republic Statistics Institute, 95.5% of the Serbian economy is precisely micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. They account for 58% of Serbia's total employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises generate Serbia's economy, and they, along with their service performance, felt the most difficult consequences of this pandemic. The financial contract we are discussing today with the European Investment Bank is worth 200m euros. The entities will be able to obtain, according to the law, favourable loans which are the kind of aid for liquidity, sustainability and investment activities of the firm. We in JS consider this mechanism effective, because this is about preserving business by operators, but responsible, because the timely reaction will reduce some potential future risks that we need to think about, because the pandemic thing is still not over. We cannot look back on the extremely favourable investment climate that exists in Serbia today. Unique Serbia and its president, Mr. Dragan Markovic, have been a direct participant in the creation of an excellent investment environment in recent years. Thanks to Mr Markovic's intensive activity, various international companies are present today in the Jagodin industrial zone with, from a few weeks ago, the German "Fisher". These investments play a major role in reducing unemployment and in Serbia's overall economic picture at all, but we believe that during this crisis it is crucial to help and protect the domestic economy, as well as farmers. Maintaining and stimulating domestic economic potential must be a strategic goal. I would look back at the end of 2020 when a summit was held. It is a business leaders summit marked as a very important business event in Serbia, and we were able to hear a statement from the president of the Chamber of Commerce who pointed out that small economies must find their way to survive and survive. Yes, we agree that small economies are always in danger, and they are more vulnerable than the big ones, but that's why they need help on that road. This is not just about the lending or the grant that the government grants, but about a permanent model that will be a guideline for small businesses so that they can predict the risks and adapt, let's say, to this new normality that Kovid-19 has brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8561	Thank you. The last person on the list is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8562	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law is the best proof of the purpose and usefulness of European laws and practices and the best argument to all those who feel that we should not comply with European laws because it was created, above all, to meet the needs of our citizens or in this case to increase the productivity of agriculture in our country. It is our interest to adapt our agriculture to EU standards and regulations because the European market is our market and our best buyer of agricultural products. It is no less important to say that through the IPA funds, two-thirds of this list will be funded by the EU. So there's really a lot of reason to do one of these things. But I want to point out the exceptional work of the Ministry of Agriculture, specifically I think of Minister Nedimovic and his team, and with a view to the financial and professional assistance this ministry provides to farmers. As an example, I will refer to the Municipality of Sjenica, as an example of agricultural support, where in the past extremely difficult, crisis, pandemic year this ministry, through subsidies, gave 762 million dinars to this municipality, which is almost equal to or almost equal to the annual budget of the Municipality of Sjenica. Since Minister Nedimovic took over the management of this ministry, about 20 billion such and similar subsidies have been placed in this municipality. I only took this as an example of how much this ministry gives and how much it cares about to speed up, improve, modernise our agricultural production. A new project has recently been implemented, which is a project to improve agricultural production, where the Ministry of Agriculture, in co-operation with the World Bank, allocates up to 50% of the grants, and in advance 50% gives funds, and it seems to me that these citizens in my area who deal with agriculture are using a lot. The quality of water supply is significantly improved by the realisation of cave water reconstruction projects. I must say that he started three years ago, when our president, Minister Rasim Ljajic, was also deputy prime minister. He initiated it, and with Mr. Nedimovic's full support, this project will hopefully be completed next year, fortunately for all citizens living on the Cave. In any case, our Cavers know best how much their life, work and farming are facilitated by last year's construction of a large amount, i.e. a large number of asphalt roads on the Cave. It also looks forward to the president's announcement that by 2025 large infrastructure projects will be implemented, I mean a highway that will cross the cave with its shorts to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Krusevec, or Macedonia, to Kosovo and Metohija, or Albania. I want to commend you once again and encourage you, Mr. Minister, to continue with this trend of support for farmers, because this pandemic time really is the best way to show how important it is to invest in agriculture and how much agriculture and economic development headquarters are, but also a very profitable branch. It is most logical to invest in the Cave in the direction of agricultural production, with special support for livestock, for which the Cave is high in the god of day. Of course, there is primarily the production of organic food, medicinal and spice plants, and there is also the development of rural tourism, especially with the construction of highways, which will connect and which, for example, citizens from Belgrade will be able to reach the Cave in two and a half hours. However, it is not good for one of these natural potentials, which has few countries in Europe, such an eco-system, to be destroyed, threatened or disrupted by military combat missiles and frequent military exercises. The military needs to be trained, and it's part of everyday military training, but for that, it needs to be provided on a permanent basis and, I stress, suitable military polygons. It is you, Minister Nedimovic, who should represent this position and that the representatives of our army truly have an argumentary picture of such consequences that this target could have on this eco-system. I don't think there's any greater patriotism in investing and working to raise our country's economy and agriculture and today's time has shown that agriculture is its most stable and perspective branch. That's why I'm giving you this application, and I'm telling you, because I know there's a lot of work behind you, a lot of results, and you don't lack patriotism either. No one can be good until everyone gets better. It cannot be good for those in the city if it is not good for those in the country, nor can we develop an army without worrying about economy and agriculture. The balanced relationship, the work of priority, the balanced regional development and the equal chance for all citizens of our country are the path that we Social Democrats want to pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8563	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists, is it possible that someone who has not used the right under Article 96 wants the word? (No) I thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 of the agenda. I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – List of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening my Rules of Procedure a search on a list of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Does the rapporteur of the committee responsible, MP Sandra Christmas, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8565	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Orlic. As an authorised representative today, I would like to give a brief explanation of the proposal that the Committee on Culture and Information has practically referred to the National Assembly as such, but I would also like to remind the people's MPs and the public a little bit of what the REM obligations really are and how REM works, and I would also like to highlight a really special situation in which the National Assembly is on several occasions, and this assembly has been attacked precisely because of the election of members of the Board of Regulators. I would only like to underline and clarify once again that this meeting has really been done, but the previous one has done everything in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and as regards the election of members of the Board of Regulators, and that he has indeed done in time and thus contributed to the fact that REM is really working in full composition, and since today we are choosing another of the nine REM members, he will indeed work in full composition after today's election, and uncouplingly, first of all, make an independent decision on his work round. So, just for a brief reminder, the Electronic Media Regulatory Body of the Electronic Media Act, which was adopted in 2014, was established and one of the main tasks of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to preserve and protect the development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect the interests of the public in this area, as well as to protect the users of electronic media services, and I will highlight this. I simply know that even in the transfer of citizens, they are following the sessions of the National Assembly, and I ask that this be apostrophe for the facts that I will later present, and it refers most often to the attacks on this particular institution. So, the Board of Regulators has nine members. I will visit you that since December of last year, we selected three members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which is just in favor of the fact that I just said that the National Assembly is working effectively and committed and committed, indeed, and above all, and responsible if we are to be honest, in compliance with the legal rules and deadlines. The legal basis for selecting the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and its members is contained in the provision of Article 8. The law on electronic media, where it is indeed people who are professional in their fields, who are of course independent of political parties and who are chosen on the basis of certain different regulations, so that this body truly covers the widest possible spectrum of what should be as software content to be sent. Therefore, acting on paragraph 5 of this Decision in accordance with Article 10(1). The Law on Electronic Media, a public invitation to propose candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media this time was elected on a proposal from the Association of Scene and Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia. It's our duty to publish it in one of the votes. We published this in the Daily List "Politika" and as a commitment and in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", put it on the National Assembly website to really get a broad spectrum, a quality spectrum of those who would apply to this place. We had 15 days from the date of the publication of the public invitation to collect applications for a member of the Board of Regulators and on 17 June 2021, at a session of the Committee on Culture and Information, we gave another 15 days. There's been a discrepancy in the public for what reason it was done. We really went out to meet all the candidates to collect the necessary documentation and that everyone would have the right to participate equally in this competition. After that, we held a session with the candidates, which is also one of our legal obligations, to get acquainted with their professionalism, in order to get to know their work résumés. Committee members, and these are always the longest sessions and most interesting when we choose someone who is tomorrow representing the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Two applications have arrived, this is Mr. Bozidar Zecevic and Stanko Crnobrnja. Indeed, both candidates are also well-experienced in the work they have done before, they are, of course, presented to us as a proposal from the Association. I am now saying, and I note once again, the Board of Regulators will work in full composition, and I call upon Members of Parliament to comply with what they have succeeded and to hear on the Committee on Culture and Information, but also on the biographies on the e-parliament, I am sure that the MPs and how they have fulfilled and examined these biographies, today to decide simply, in the shades of which of the proposed candidates is a better proposal for a member of the Board of Regulators' Body. Now, when I talked about that first sentence, I simply reminded you of what the work of REM was. Also, many times and many times in the day we hear accusations of this independent body, and indeed these attacks are no longer something we would characterise as one example of the practice of all. So there are those who have never called for the work of this body in terms of its proper decision or not. I'll remind you that this body and how it existed before. It used to be called RRA, and at a time when the SNS was also an opposition, you couldn't hear so much controversy about REM, because the SNS had support in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so you didn't have to find any post-its, which would justify the complete fiasco of the opposition, which today, depicted in the former regime, is precisely this institution almost daily, is little to say on a daily basis, attacks. I believe that even after this presentation, there will certainly be a theme or sentence from which a certain context will be drawn to make another step and a good reflection for further attacks on this body, but also on those who will choose a member of the Board of Regulators today, that is, Members of Parliament. That this body and how independently it has been proven, and how you know that in the previous session here we have chosen members of the Board of Regulators, I particularly draw attention to that we have also chosen, in the context of the inter-party dialogue that took place before the previous elections here, to say the initiative and quite impartially, professionals sitting in this body. In addition, it says, let's say, that the diversity of opinions in the Board of Regulators itself and how broad the spectrum is, and that these are people who, and how independently they decide what the work of REM is, it is precisely in favour of you hearing different opinions from that body. We hear, for example, very often Judith Popovic, chosen by the majority of the SNS in the last session, and then you can't easily and uncannyly stick that sticker to it that it's not an independent body. But it seems to me that Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, well, for once, so, not just for once, much more often lately, and Vuk Jeremic, who would free speech to replace the destruction of television. I'll remind you that when one day he wins power, and it'll probably be in one of his dreams just to tear down the Pink TV building, and that's all the story of freedom of the media. But if they had gone one step further, just like these in the former regime and that this freedom of the media and how they abuse, we had had the opportunity to see in the previous years, especially in the previous year and a half since this monstrous campaign on Serbian President Alexander Vukic. The same member of the Board of Regulators, who and how independent his opinion stands out on certain Gilas media, has never heard of condemning what the president found with a sniper in his chest on a weekly front page. We've never heard of her condemning being targeted by these exactly Gilas media, and President Alexander Vukic's son, Danilo Vukic, and Andrej Vukic, brother of the president. So, the monstrosity attacks are getting lower, and almost every day on the cover, and I believe that someone will do an analysis, and perhaps in REM they can do that kind of analysis and see if it's really true that 99% of President Aleksandar Vukic is on the cover of the list "Today", and that these are really some inappropriate statements behind which he hides and how he just attacks his work. Today they went one step further and I'm sure, for the sake of the public I really do, and it's necessary here today to say that the freedom of the media is being abused precisely by the Gilas media, it's clear to us long ago, but also how some independent journalists who are and how they depend on some suspicious funding are publishing their own difficult truths. They are based on the criminal language and the mouth of Veljka Belivuk. What's much more interesting than that is that they've done better today and they've been able to disprove themselves, and none other than the journalist who signed today's text that caused really so much controversy with the right, since the text says that Veljko Belivuk has said, and that is very, I would say, a respectable source, that he had just co-operated with Alexander Vukic, which is absolute and notorous untruth, that is, a lie. I just want to know why and in what way these independent journalists didn't mention those who provided help to the Belivuk clan from the core of the state apparatus. Those who just collaborated with these same independent journalists, independent researchers when they published the truths that were and how they were connected to Velika Belivuk and his clan. I wonder why they didn't mention Marinika Tepic, who had copies of the talks of the president of the state, who was tapped, and in the end why they didn't mention Dragan Djilas who and how he tried to relatify in his media all these monstrous crimes of Veljak Belivuk and his crew? So, everything you could see, and there was, of course, controversy, but something later on about it, about pictures of murders, tortures and brutal executions that Veljko Belivuk and his members of the mob organization did in the previous period, you see that it is absolutely very trendy on all of Gilas' media relativizing. And even more or less, it seems to me that they've tried to go one step further, not only to relativize these crimes, but to deny them, given that they're bothered by the fact that, let's say, such monstrous things are being shown to the public. The public must know, the public must be aware of the terrible actions behind Veljko Belivuk, Mark Miljkovic and others. The special story is that today, as well after this text, a whole play is appearing orchestrated, which connects itself to this particular text can hardly wait simply to say something and attack in another way by Alexander Vukic. So these are, of course, these political vultures who see their future and present, and probably past allies and associates in carnivores and murderers such as Belivuk and Miljkovic, so those who have used bloodlocks, carnivores, criminals now appear loudly through their media and are giving them exactly the same slaughterers unreserved support. I don't know what to say, whether it's really freedom of the media or whether it's abuse in a political campaign against Alexander Vukic, because it's also clear that Alexander Vukic, as he said today in a press release, answers the questions of journalists, just for this topic, said, and besides here, the legislator group of Alexander Vukic – provides unreserved support for our children in the fight against crime and corruption, and of course with one single message, which is that we will never really rise up to criminals who are mouth and tongues of murderers and murderers. We're going to fight the mafia without a doubt, and we're going to fight political vultures who are trying to replace the will of the slayer and the murderer for what's most important, and that's the will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8566	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8567	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear colleagues, I will say certain things specifically about all these things that my colleague Christmas was now talking about in front of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation. She said everything I think she said, because the essence of everything is about this point, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, supplemental, filling in with another member who died. We will now have the opportunity to fill this place, where the Committee on Culture and Information has done its part of the job, where, on the proposal of the Association of Artists of Serbia, the film, the stage, who have submitted their proposals, the Committee has confirmed it, and we will now have the opportunity to choose the man who will be a member of REM and the one who will continue to work in the interests of all Serbian citizens, because we have seen what the media means, what it means to hear, to see everything that is important, and whether it is in Srlig, the White Palanca, whether it is in Subotica or any part of Serbia. I think that candidates who are very high-quality people, who know their jobs, and there's no mistake in being both, are both very high-quality, as they say, right. By the way, I think we need to say a few things for this point. As a man representing the United Peasant Party here in the Assembly, a man who is and as president of the party I took part in these negotiations where they were representatives of the European Union, where we also talked about the media at that meeting, which put great attention to all of us here in Serbia, so the interest of all of us is to hear the voice of every one who participates in the elections, every one who has his own political party and normally anywhere that he lives, whether he lives, as I just said, in southeastern Serbia, in northern Serbia, in northern Serbia, whether he lives in Rasko, does not matter. It is important to hear, to know, and to have the ability to say what is and what should be, and later to do what is normal. These negotiations are very important within all of us. Negotiations will continue normally in September and the topic of "media" will certainly be addressed in the best way for the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the same very important thing for me as a man, for the representative and president of the United Peasants' Party, is that, I must say now, it is very now and presently, where it is now said that Telecom Serbia has provided the right to watch the Prime Minister's League. I think it's really the right thing to do, that it's the need for all of us who love sports, who love football, because so far it's been doing some television and could only watch a certain number of people. Only a certain number of people who had these channels could watch, and now they will have the possibility that every Serbian citizen can watch the prime minister's league. All of us who love football, love sports, that's a big deal for us. Thanks again. It is good that the state of Serbia through its state-owned enterprises can ensure that every citizen can watch, monitor everything that happens to sports. Well done. That's how it's supposed to be, and that's how it's supposed to go on. Telecom is a real state-owned company, but Telecom thinks the most of all citizens, so whether it lives, not to repeat in what part of Serbia, it is able to watch and monitor all sports events that will be in the next period. Once again, every honor, that's how it should be, because we all want to see what's nice and what's good. One of the more important things that I wanted to say is that for all of us living in certain areas of Serbia, in certain municipalities, it is very important that REM through all of those instruments that it can have, that it can somewhat suggest national televisions, RTS, that in the greatest extent possible for every citizen of Serbia, anywhere he lives, that he can present, that what is worth in that area can be shown. We have a large number of organizations, a large number of events, a large number of opportunities to show what is worth in one municipality. Now, that should be more present on national media, to be present on RTS, because it's a possibility that people who haven't, say, been to Srlig on "Belmužijada", that's a event that's going to be 6, 7 and 8 August, that's a cultural and economic event where more than 100,000 people are coming. The possibility that through national television, through RTS, it can be heard, presented, and that every man who hasn't been to us in Srlig, who wants to come. Here we can try the quality products of our hosts and housewives, quality dishes, squeamish whites, I say, as a purpose Viagra, is a product made of quality cheese. That's what I'm talking about here, and that's what RTS is now, but it would be good for it to be in some national media. Not only when you say Srlig, it applies to other municipalities, to other territories. For example, Sokobanja "First Harmonica", then Bela Palanka "Days of Banica", then "Rostiljada" in Leskovec, "Nishville" in Nis and a number of such events that are very quality, which in every place present in these municipalities what is best, where people can see what is quality and what is worth. Otherwise, once again I can say, nature has given us everything. The territory of our country of Serbia is the most beautiful. Every part of Serbia needs to be seen, every part of Serbia must be present in all these media, whether it's national, whether it's RTS or some regional medium, but to be evenly represented, that tomorrow as a man who represents a certain political option, that tomorrow the president of the municipality, the president of the assembly or some businessman from those parts, can present what is worth from his end and that the product is present tomorrow in all of Serbia. I think we'll now have the opportunity to show what's worth in as many places as possible. Another important thing is for all of us, since we are all witnesses that there are a large number of resorts, places where people feel good, whether it's Kopalnik, whether it's Zlatibor, for me as a man, the best place is the Old Mountain, and therefore I'm looking for and it should be as much of a show as possible about the Old Mountain, a presentation of the Old Mountain, because there's something beautiful, there God said what's most beautiful, and there he put it all. If someone wants to see the beauty of the Old Mountain tomorrow, he needs to hear it and see it on national television, on RTS, to make it as present as possible and to have as many people there as possible. When someone gets to the Old Mountain, when they come, say, from Belgrade, from Saturday, from Novi Sad, and there's a lot of people coming, they'll all cross the Svrlig municipality. There they will have the opportunity to buy some products, they can stop by Nis, they can see the beauty of Nis, they can stop by Književec, they can stop by Zaječar, they can stop by Sokobanje, they're all beautiful municipalities and beautiful places. Now, we have to have the opportunity to see it on national television, see it on RTS, and that's what I stand for, as president of the United Peasants' Party, and I think that's right. The need for all of us is for REM to be complete, that's what we're going to do now. Once again, distinguished colleagues, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party and member of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation – United Peasants' Party, will vote for a proposal for a REM member. I'll spend the rest of my time later if there's a chance. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8568	Thank you. The word has the life of Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8569	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be brief on this subject, REM, as an independent regulatory body, has been defined by the Law on Electronic Media and its competences are clearly set out in Article 2. The law on electronic media. We today, as the National Assembly, should choose one of the two proposed candidates. I think both candidates are good and they meet professionally and ethically sought some criteria, and whoever we choose, we wouldn't make a mistake. What I would like to say is that JS strongly supports the institutional regulation of the media image in Serbia. Why do I say that? I would simply link it to the negotiations, i.e. the talks with the opposition, with the intervention of European parliamentarians, which took place in Belgrade ten days ago, at the Federation Palace, where we could hear proposals from individual opposition representatives, to create some, to say, para-bodys or bodies that are informal, outside of the system bodies that would do the same job that the REM does. We, as JS, have, at that meeting and discussion with opposition representatives and European parliamentarians, made it clear that we do not support any solution related to the media situation in Serbia, which would not be within the framework of legal solutions, valid legal solutions of the Republic of Serbia, and do not support any outside-institutional and no systemic decisions and solutions, type, to make some editorial supervisory on public services or anything like that. We think it's a simple, bad solution. Secondly, there was also a proposal to make a deal on who would have as many REM members. The agreement is not made, there is a clear procedure for selecting the members of the REM Council and this procedure is clearly prescribed and we must respect it. In that sense, JS and simply there is a need to repeat, strongly support the institutional work of all bodies related to media image in Serbia, whether it is REM, whether it is public services, or anything like that, any form of non-institutional control or regulation of media image in Serbia, we are clearly against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8570	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8571	Thank you, Vice President. Today on the agenda, once again or again, is the election of another candidate for member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and somehow I get the impression that already in two terms, who knows which time we choose a member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. So it settled, so it was wanted, if I wasn't wrong, and I'm not wrong, and the last meeting was somewhere at the very beginning of my term and session, as one of the first points had a choice of one or two REM members. What does that tell us? In addition to everything we heard before my discussion, in the discussion of the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, Mrs Christmas, as well as colleagues of Starcevic, it is that, in the context of our powers and our obligations, we have indeed acted responsibly and joined the selection of the missing REM members whenever it depends on the Assembly Committee, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, in front of us two candidates, with impressive biographies. Well said by a colleague of Life, we wouldn't be wrong, no matter who we trust, we won't really make a mistake, it's a sin that they can't be both. Because in this presentation, in front of the Committee on Culture, we heard two mature men who know very well how to contribute, improve the work of REM, which, as such subject to criticism, seems to me on a daily basis and in one long continuity. It is not important to say that both Mr. Bozidar Zečević and Mr. Crnobrnja, even if I did not make a mistake, Dr. Stanko Crnobrnja, were for me personally, no surprises, but it was a pleasure to meet them. I didn't know either of them, before we met them on the Committee and it was a pleasure to hear them, it was a pleasure to look at everything they actually saw as shortcomings in REM's work, what they pointed out that they could possibly improve their entry and one of the respects that they had shown and which I particularly like, which I think lately, is missing Serbia. Tastes aren't worth discussing. It's the only thing we all know. I fear that all our debates, when I say ours, then I think first of all about Serbia, not only in the debate in parliament, can often be the result of taste or distaste. What anyone chooses to do is his personal right, as he will think, is also his right, but that brutal attempt to impose his position as general sometimes can be extremely difficult and unfounded. Why am I saying all this? Because I'm not going to allow myself a luxury, because otherwise I don't like to do it, which is now I look back at what kind of comments, to look back at certain people, because the people I comment on, I'm commenting on them, and what doesn't cause my respect and my admiration, mostly doesn't cause me to spend my time on these phenomena. When it comes to the work of the electronic media regulator, almost everyone could sit down and say, I would do it like this. What would happen if each of us sat down there, I'm not sure it would look like what we would say so publicly at the coffee shop at the table, on the street, if the electronic media regulator is doing the job as best he can? No, I don't. Because he can always do better. I'm sure they're missing out, and I'll be very happy when they figure out what his failures are. There is a legal regulation, which has precisely defined what their options are and what their obligations are, when it comes to obligations, seem to respect them to a good degree, when it comes to possibilities, mostly not. Maybe it's because it's estimated that when you go down a line of less resistance, it'll be easier for you. I'll be happy if now that we've chosen in full all the members of the electronic media regulator, because today's election, the missing member, we'll complete it by the regulatory body, and then maybe when they're fully reciprocated, they'll look at what they're missing in their work, and what about, first of all, the media. There are differences in our perspectives, so critics could be in a different direction, but what's common is that the whole public discourse, somewhere a little healthier, a little more civilized than what we're exposed to as adults, is that we can do less and we don't have to react, but some younger generations and children inevitably have to. Sometimes they're forced to follow something that maybe they shouldn't. What's most important is that, and it won't be the first time that I say it in this Parliament, nor my colleagues say it in this House, it's that without ambition to do something right now that's possible, which is that I charge the regulatory body with any programming scheme, but that we all think together about, that we should regulate it legally, is that we should also commit ourselves to it, without imposing any political influence, or any influence, other than the educational one, thinking about whether we really miss some great emissions that need to be adapted to the modern age, to bring them back, to do it again, to modernise, to come up with new ones. I'm sure there are so many creative people who could do that. Since culture and information is closely linked, both through the Committee and through all the legal solutions that we have made, we are, in fact, always lacking in that culture, education on the subject of culture, above all, those younger generations. I have the privilege of learning a lot over the past year about which I knew nothing or knew very little, which is because among my colleagues I had one Jelica Sretenović and one Jela Celov, who completely see from the other corner everything that could be quality presented to all of us at the end, and then to all the people who follow and what we do and what we through the laws will impose on them as something that must or something that is possible. I must say, I will not go far from the subject that this time, the Committee on Culture and Information of the Serbian Assembly has four or five names to make no mistake, but names that I am almost certain exist that there are peoples who do not have the privilege of having such people among themselves, let alone having them in one Committee numbering 19 members or 18. There's Jadranka Jovanovic, there's Jelena, there's Tasovac, there's Mr. Kolundzija, there's names that are absolute pride, and then on the other hand, we spend a lot of time interpreting some names that disappoint themselves when they look in the mirror. That's what I'll never forgive absolutely anyone who gives time for such things. The personal frustrations that are allowed, sometimes justified, sometimes there is a medical need for them, are something that, depending on what started them, should be treated, not that we here or anywhere consider the attitudes of the people who are that profile. In that sense, this assembly will be criticised even today when it will choose one of these two candidates, unfortunately, because we cannot choose both. The nuances are at stake. We'll probably be accused of being closer, I don't know who or don't know what, I don't know what ideology, I just see in front of me, I'm saying this because of you who didn't get a chance to hear them. I see two biographies that are perfect and absolutely qualified for a place like this. If we could pick four, it would be great if they were two out of four. And on the last tide when we were talking about a REM member we had two candidates great, with my favorite being a younger candidate, unfortunately he didn't pass, but he was also a great guy, a young creature who I'm sure would have a completely new angle of conversation within the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media about everything that's being put before them. So it would be ideal for us to stop dealing with the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media in a way that we will constantly interpret some political influence for a simple reason because at some point in our political struggle, which can be often pointless, we have understood that this story about the Regulatory Body is a terrible drink for some who don't understand what I'm talking about. Then we tried to impose one position by calling on Europe to help the members of the Regulatory Body now need opposition representatives. Dear gentlemen, no matter who you belong to, even if you are ours, we who make that ruling majority, members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media must be exclusively people qualified by the profession to show them trust. They're proposed by different associations. The political impact on the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media could be measured through one member proposed by the Serbian Parliament and one member proposed by the APV Assembly, two men compared to the entire assembly of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, because I can almost argue. What I can't do is humiliate the promoter in a way that I'm going to say that we have two representatives today that I don't know of. No, I don't. These two men were given the trust of their colleagues to be proposed to be a member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We may lay low, but choose one of those two. We will certainly be brutally guilty, if it happens that someone doesn't like it, even though it accidentally opens up some media space, and someone wants to use two minutes, five minutes, the whole text, Columbus, to explain how we are some listeners who are today going to choose between Rabbitic and Blackbeard on the sound of the bell. Even if we choose the sound of the bell, today's choice is the first choice that we in no way bothered under the circumstances to know who we're talking about. I'm very sorry, and this practice needs to be changed, it needs to change the practice of just talking to the Committee. I know it would be too big to hear them all, but I'm just sorry that all my colleagues can't hear what's the privilege of the few of us who are on the Committee on Culture and Information. So, I'm sure in the next few months, we'll have a situation that one of the members of the Regulatory Body has expired, and just when we hope that we've completed all of this, we'll get back into the process of re-election one more, but that's not bad either. What is most important is to learn that when we choose a member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media in the Serbian Parliament, which has legal authority, then we really choose a man who will be a member of the independent Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. As much as we like or don't like the media, we need to talk about it. What's what they need to fix in their work, and that's what we need to talk about. Whether they may have a relationship that is often such that you get the impression that they remain silent on large gaps, and we can talk about it, but not in the days when we choose one of the members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. What are our front pages, what are we able to write and publish, and we need to talk about it, but again through the form of another law. Maybe now I sound like who knows how, I'll probably be criticised for this attitude to the level that I don't know what I'm trying to do when it comes to the media, but it's just one thing to do, which is to point out the fact that it's the easiest thing to say, but it's even easier to be ashamed of everything spoken when a certain time goes by. Whoever decided to live life in a way that doesn't care what they think of him in three years, and if he blushes, I don't have a problem with it, but really, whatever, whatever you hate anyone, no matter how politically they don't get along with anyone, no matter how much ambition you have to hit him right where he gets the most, try to remember how you'd feel if someone did it to you, no matter how much we talk about it. After all, I'm motivated really maybe by all the details Sandra Christmas said at the beginning. So, we'll choose between Mr. Zečević and Crnobrnje. I'm sure we won't make a mistake, whichever one of them gets a chance to fix and help the other members of the electronic media Regulatory Body will take advantage of that, I can guarantee. It's up to us to sit down and see what it is that might need to be changed legally, which are powers that may be missing from the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, or in the end, there may be powers that they've got, and they shouldn't have. Either way, it would be good to arrange the media space of Serbia, including the media space we are looking at in Serbia, and somehow it does not come from Serbia. I don't know what a professional name would be, because I really don't want to risk a term from an economist's position, but we have a lot of work to do. All we have left is to determine how much will we have to approach this business. In the day to vote, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will give its trust to one of the candidates. Since we don't have an obligation, I won't even tell who, but that vote in the afternoon, or tonight, will explain it. I would certainly like to congratulate whoever passes the selection of MPs, who gets the trust and to appeal again from this room, although I told both of them at the end of the Committee's session, that all of what they have presented in order to try to remove them, start working immediately from tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8572	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8573	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Only one who doesn't oars has time to rock the boat. The REM Council is and must be the engine of an independent supervisory body, not a filter, because it is bound by the law. For us as MPs, it is also the alpha and omega and the backbone of our work, to make good laws, to take care of their application and respect, and it is not only in the description of our work, but it is a practice and something that is meant in all democratic countries. The responsibility and independence of REM are precisely laid down by law, as well as the procedure for the election of members of that independent regulatory body, and there is, as far as we are concerned, a point. There's nothing to add or take away. Maybe someone likes it or doesn't like it, the law has to be respected, as well as the independence and independence of the control body for the electronic media. Since today we are talking about candidates for new REM members, I will focus on it, and in this house there are countless times so many times already said in detail about the work of REM that there is no need to repeat itself. The council will work fully after we choose one of the two impressive candidates today. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, it was a pleasure and an honor to listen to the proposals made by both candidates on improving the work of an independent regulatory body and what each of them, individually with their own personal and professional integrity, can bring into the work of this extremely important body. It was really impressive. Formal-legal, both candidates meet the conditions and that's what's important to us. In this case, like I said, it was a pleasure talking to them. It's really nuances. We won't make a mistake if we choose any of the two candidates. I am convinced that whoever we choose, REM will be strengthened professionally by such sizes and experts in the field of media as both candidates are. Citizens are in no position to see the material we've received for this session. So on page 19, the biography, or biography of both candidates, is briefly mentioned. That already speaks quite enough about their professional qualities. I think it's very good that in this session, as in the previous one, we choose new REM members in time. REM can work at full capacity. In time, reports and plans on the work of that body are being made, and I think that, as far as our work and our jurisdiction are concerned, it is absolutely fulfilled and there is absolutely nothing to object to. Like I said, only one who doesn't row has time to rock the boat. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will give its full support to one of the two candidates in the day to vote, bearing in mind that a mistake cannot be made, but also with a certain regret that both such candidates cannot be elected as members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8574	Thank you. In front of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Deputy President of the Parliament Group, MP Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8575	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Before I begin my presentation today, I must respond to what my colleague may not say for some reason, but we know very clearly who are those who are breaking all the rules of the law in the Republic of Serbia, and also those who regulate the work of REM, which are the cross-border channels of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, of course, not to forget the other one, more likely, who do not pay taxes to Serbia, nor have any obligation which is certainly by law something which is the assumption of the work and the work of the media in Serbia, and their programme, as they say, emit, re-emission, who will catch it more, from Luxembourg. What's very important, here, is this information that people's MPs and citizens of Serbia don't know about, and I'm going to share it with you, which is that the Luxembourg REM actually requested a meeting with our, or Serbian REM, and that there will be an exclusive topic and the only one who will find a violation of the law and all that is part of the work and is about precisely broadcasting from their country, and I think that there will be a very interesting epilogue. As for the independence of the candidate sitting today as members of the REM Council, I have mentioned Mrs Judith Popovic for a little while not necessarily. With all due respect to all the REM members, I voted honestly. Have I repented, that is already my thing, but I can certainly tell you that an independent and individual opinion is what is welcome in every independent body that decides on its own and freed from political pressure, and even today the two candidates that we have the opportunity to choose, I will agree with my colleagues from two previous presentations, are indeed equally professional, equally rich biographies, working biographies that really speak in favour of whoever we choose, he will indeed be an excellent representative of the association that has run him, or proposed, and that we will have another expert opinion in the Board of Regulators that will certainly assist in further work. I mentioned, I said that I don't mind, it's not really trendy, but here's a chance to see that difference of opinion and what Judita Popovic thinks and is mostly advertised, I don't know why, I don't even want to tend to assume, on some Gilas media, where she says these photos of the crimes that are shown, therefore, the monstrosity of the Belivuk clan, which, in my personal opinion, really have to see the light of the day. Photos, as they must be, really necessary for Serbian citizens to see in order to understand the full picture of what the criminal group has done in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The investigation is still ongoing. Everything that doesn't bother the investigation, and the citizens have to be familiar, is certainly good that they are because it seems to me that none of us could possibly assume all the cruelty and monstrosity of this criminal group and that we will come from just one of the facts presented in Gilas' media, and the main megaphone we know, the first associate and most paid associate Dragan Đilas, Marinika Tepic, was trying to explain to us that these are just some "Partizan's" fans, that it's all relative to what is being shown, and we really see that this is about the slaughterers, the monsters, the people that the state has set in the way. All the praises and in this sense, and I said that whenever I talk about this issue, I would congratulate Minister Vulin, congratulate the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, and also the president of Serbia, certainly, who was institutionally informed and informed and as commander of the armed forces and as someone who was informed at all the different meetings of the Security Bureau on this subject. I think it is very important that no mob murder has occurred in Serbia since then, especially in Belgrade, which is proof that this monster clan has indeed been cut off in the very root, and that is what is really most important for the citizens of Serbia. But I'd like to go back to what some are contesting, relativating that these images were shown, though, I say, they were covered by the sensitivity of content. I would only remind those who today want to relativize, but also hide the images of these crimes, that it was they when it was the authorities who publicly showed the execution, that is, the murder of Kum and Spasojevic to all. So, we didn't see the blue-headed pictures, we saw the whole event, everything that preceded that action, and, of course, we saw something very different. So, we are now in a position to shut down criminals, to come to the results of this investigation with a fair trial, but you see, sometimes politicians decided at a time to just execute certain people, criminals, that's undeniable, they're criminals, but why couldn't that mouth talk? That might be some other topic we might be thinking about. But, you see, this is what these pictures look like when we talk about monstrosity, when we talk about how we shouldn't look at this sensitive content, when certain REM members have something to say, so let me remind them just, I don't know where they were at the time, but let's say, what about these pictures? What about the pictures of Stambolic? What about the pictures from Baraiev? What about the pictures of the gunmen in Srebrenica? I even now think that certain things citizens really need to see, to see all the width of what's going on, the width of the crime. I don't think anyone could have guessed that someone had come to think of making chihuahuas out of human flesh, even less someone could have guessed that such disgusting crimes were being disgraced by a pedophile from law school, who thinks this is also relative and that today they're giving up ties to this criminal group, and we all remember, the whole of Serbia was able to hear exactly this monster pedophile from law school as he says - Veljo, you know how much I love you. So there's nothing else that can wash this man's name and name away from involvement and direct, close connection to the Great Trouble. Also, I think it is very important today to mention another event that is just talking about how this opposition is, I would say in this case one vulture opposition, politically unable to reach voters with its programme, its public performances. I guess it's really hard to do when you're driving a Porsche and when you come into a middle where people have average profits, you cause some other feelings in them. Also, I'd like to remind you today of this date. Today's date is significant, among other things, for the Republic of Serbia and for other things, because on today exactly 10 years ago, one of the Serbian politicians, if I may call it that, has asked, if you remember, the most stupid question to the International Court of Justice, concerning Kosovo and Metohija. And for that he got the cover and thank-you card of the Pristina politicians and those secessionists who are so-called. Kosovo declared. So it's about Vuk Jeremic. I guess I don't mention his name, you know who's the hero of Albanian separatists, because no one's done for the so-called so-called. Kosovo's independence more than this man. Right after that date, when they declared so-called. Kosovo's independence, or independence, is the man who contributed to its celebration in Pristina, to place his name, last name and picture on the front page and say publicly – thank you, Wolfe. So today it's 10 years from the stupidest question ever asked to the International Court of Justice. We also have evidence in the "Vikiliks" deficits, which say it was a maneuvering move by Tadic and Jeremic at the time, to actually ensure the trail of events and to bring about the self-proclaiming of an independent Kosovo. I will remind you only that Vljosa Osmani, on Twitter's social network, also published a picture of Vuk Jeremic leaving the sessions after the International Court of Justice's decision. Then she wrote that she was honored to be part of a team that represented Kosovo at the time. So, this hero of Albanian separatists, and what does this have to do with today's topic? There is. Because today, this hero would tear Serbia down, this hero would be illustrating today, punishing himself, to try to try in any possible way to get back into politics, even if he was going to spend someone's name on a daily basis, which would threaten the most ordinary activists, but will mostly remain remembered just like this Vuk Jeremic, Vuk Jeremic, who has set the borders between Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Vuk Jeremic, who has provided Kosovo's own seal to the Pristina separatists, Vuk Jeremic, who indeed seems to me, by this question, to me very well know the answer, has contributed most to the fact that today, in his hands, Albanians have precisely this as the strongest weapon. I'll also remind you, on the front page of the front page, which I held, in addition to what was my basic theme today, you saw that today the report by the Independent Commission of Gideon Graif is related to Srebrenica and I suppose, given that it is scientifically proven now, we can freely say that the genocide was not, that there are very disappointed in Serbia, such as Marinika Tepic, who is very much in favour of adding this word to the Serbian and Serbian people. If a resolution is to be signed, it's not a problem for her, she'll be very happy to come to power. It will go a little harder, given that the Porsche makes it difficult for that authority to win, I don't know, I'm not sure how Marinika Tepic intends to do it. But it is quite certain that she is not alone in it and that, among other things, there are others in the ranks of the former opposition that would contribute in one way or another to the fact that this date today is marked by the stupidest question in the history of international public law, which was set by Vuk Jeremic, is marked by other statements. I'm talking, of course, about no one else but Borislav, or maybe you're more familiar with Borko Stefanovic, because it's pretty unclear what that man calls himself and what he calls himself, what names. Let's say, what's in common with Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and, say, Kamberi? Here, I'll read you some statements, so you'll conclude yourself and the citizens will be able to really see what these are clearly their views, which is the programme they're up for and how tomorrow when they say they come to power from the Porsche, we'll talk about this topic. Kamberi said in his address, which we also had the opportunity to hear when the president of Serbia submitted a report on negotiations and dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, quoted Dimitri Tucovic, who said: "The dream of going out to the Adriatic Sea for the fighting of Albania belongs to the past, but his shadow will be darkening the sky over the Serbian people for a long time. Serbia wanted to go out to sea and one of its colonies, so it was left without going out to sea, and from the imaginary colony it created a blood enemy. "Also, probably not by accident, Borko Stefanovic quotes, behold, miracles, the same Dimitri Tucovic and says that he loves what Tucovic said best as a leftist. Tucovic said that a long time ago, a hundred and many years ago. He said what was really happening in Kosovo, that Serbia had entered Kosovo, that it had treated Albanians badly and that Kosovo had treated one unacceptable way all along, because we did not treat Albanians and Kosovo as if it were our country, but as if we colonised it. Then what happened? Then Aljbin Kurti, who was an extreme leftist and who in me, namely Borko Stefanovic, listen now to this sentence – in this sense closer. So he says that Albin Kurti is in his position and how close and, etc., etc., that I am not reading tweets to you now. What is it that is common to Kamberi, what is it that is common to Borko Stefanovic and Marinika Tepic, and we also see Vuk Jeremic? The desire for Serbia not to move forward, the desire for Kosovo and Metohija to probably be where they left it, and left the people in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in hope, in uncertainty and complete insecurity. Today we fight for Kosovo and Metohija. We will never give up on this fight, but we must remember just like these, such as Vuk Jeremic, such as Marinika Tepic, who will sign tomorrow, probably, for maybe another 619 million and how the independence deal is. I just want to point out a few things, regardless of what we are talking about, Tucovic, who has criticised the Austrian imperialism, and it is precisely the creation of an Albanian state of the work of the Austrian policy, the maintenance of influence in that part of Europe, for the fact that I really do not need to comment on the life, work and work of Dimitri Tucovic, but of those others who follow it, I would ask the MPs, and I would also suggest that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the sake of what they would need to know about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, would best be to read the book Theodore Tolova, which, in its doctoral work, "Influence the Austrian Empire to create an Albanian nation" describes the findings that it had taken place in the research, and this existed in the framework of the Austro-Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the period from 1896 to 1996 to 1906, created all the national authorities in the pursuit of the Croatian Empire, which created by the Croatian authorities and the whole of the law. If you remember a little history, you know that in those days Albania was a tribal race. So let me conclude this whole subject. Serbia is not an imperialist country, according to Kamberi, according to Borko Stefanovic, Marinika Tepic, etc. Serbia has never had a claim to other people's territories, but has always and only defended its centuries-old hearths and its territory. Also, Serbia brought cultural prosperity when it freed Kosovo and Metohija in the Balkan wars, brought the spirit of Europe and the agrarian reform that today may be linked to this agenda, if we will look at history and which the refugee country has divided into peasants. So we never acted like colonizers, but exactly the opposite. If we are going to talk about the near past, then we must remind and perhaps educate Borko Stefanovic that the Serbian delegation in Rambuje had members of all the nationalities living in Kosovo and Metohija at negotiations in Rambuje. So we have always respected all the peoples and nations living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from the north to the south, and we have never made a difference between the minority and the majority population and we will never do so. As for the members of the Board of Regulators, I believe that Dragan Gilas has 619 million wishes, alleged desires, which he tries to make through these titles. So we know about the collapse of Telecom, we know what the reasons are, so we came up with a complete abstraction that the president of Serbia is accused of having to do with both the "Prime Minister League" and the broadcast. It's simply something that shouldn't be the topic of the National Assembly session, but I ask you to look at the working biographies of today's proposed candidates, to really contribute to REM working independently, to select the best, to free that body from at least the part about everyday attacks, satanization, after all. We see that this is the case with Oliver Zekic, who is chairman of the Council. So let REM do what his job is, and for those political opponents and REM messages, it's just to try to deal with their political programmes and less betray Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8576	Thank you. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8577	Thank you, Your Honor. The MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will definitely decide on one of the two candidates. We look forward to the fact that REM is becoming able to work and improve what needs to be improved when it comes to media imagery in the Republic of Serbia. We, too, have had certain requirements and ideas that have been presented in these discussions in terms of improving the work of this body, its roles, and that is something that is complementary to most of the requirements that have been presented and which we believe will be accepted according to what is best and most useful for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is most important is that REM, in its full capacity, has to work a little bit more to introduce ethics into our media space, because it is something that is most necessary and, of course, if it is essentially done, studioically, then most of the problems that exist today in our media space will be eliminated, because, in our opinion, one of the main problems is the lack of ethics, lack of ethics, ethical approaches in every respect, and when it comes to the information programme, but also when it comes to the overall programming scheme of those major media producers, and especially those with national frequency. Of course, if we raise awareness of ethics, we will also raise awareness of the contents of the overall schemes, which means that we will have a much higher quality programme in the fields of culture, education, and much less of what negatively affects citizens' awareness, especially smaller populations. We believe that this will also contribute to one of the two candidates that we will support today and who we will empower to do this job on behalf of us, that is, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not satisfied with what this body is, especially in the previous period when RRA was and especially during the period when most of them had the old regime, their relationship with the entire media sector, especially in the treatment of those parts that concerned the state or position of national minorities, especially the stigmatisation of the Bosniak national community in respect of what happened in 2007 after the aggression on the Islamic community. Back then, the RRA wasn't doing what it was supposed to do, it wasn't fulfilling everything he had to do. We've talked about this many times. Of course, this picture has changed a lot, but it still needs to work very hard and constantly pointing to all these failures so that today's REM in full capacity will meet everything that is its obligation and strengthen it by additional mechanisms so that it can implement in general all those decisions it makes, and when it comes to some kind of punishment for those operators who abuse frequencies, especially national frequencies, especially politics and the transfer of all possible codes of morality, very often and normality in relation to our society as a whole. With this in mind, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we will support one of the proposed candidates, believing that, as we have heard today, they will improve or strive to improve the work of this body and will try to maximise the overall total media image in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and will take into account equally the quality of media content at national level, as well as those with regional and local frequencies, as well as how we have the example that very often those media with fewer frequencies than national know that they have a negative impact, particularly on their non-professionalism, their unethical, immoral and non-professional relationship to create a negative picture of public opinion on the totality of all opportunities in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8578	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8579	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we live in a time where really the work of the media is always under public eye, above all, which is obvious that profit is a basic postulate primarily of the commercial media that they are handling in this time. It is therefore very important to pay particular attention to the content broadcast by electronic media. It's always an opportunity to talk when and talk about topics like today, which are on the agenda, such as selecting members of the REM Council. I'll talk more about the role they need to play. First of all, I would remind myself that it is the task of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to work to preserve, protect and develop freedom of opinion and expression, to work in the public interest in the field of electronic media, as well as in the interest of users of electronic media, and all in accordance with the principles of a democratic society. That's what the law says, and that's what members of the REM Council should adhere to when they perform their role. In this context, it is important to ensure the financial independence of REM. It is also important for us as parliament to perform our supervisory role in the best way possible and to discuss topics, i.e. to discuss REM's work report in some previous period. It is necessary to establish a standard and it is necessary to motivate the media to place those products that are of the highest quality, which are intended for all citizens, regardless of any political, cultural or other ethnic marking, to be one form of communication, one field in which all Serbian citizens will communicate. Of course, it is difficult to establish a system that will guarantee such quality of the programme in the current market conditions, where commercial media is indeed doing everything to attract as many viewers and to positively reflect their profits. The general impression is that commercial media is primarily profit, so several empty places, and only then cares about certain educational or cultural content. All around us around the world are evidence of a general decline in ethical standards, and more than ever, society needs to take care of ethical education. Some often say that ethics and journalism cannot be in the same sentence. We must insist that ethics and journalism always go hand in hand, because without that we will not have quality programs, we will not have an objective reporting. When we talk about the shortcomings of certain media, the easiest thing to say is that we can take the remote control and change the program by one command, but it's increasingly worrying about the fact that in our society is developing this world-wide trend to show inappropriate content, vulgar words are on the program in times when it shouldn't be, that's where I primarily think about reality programs and when I talk about it, first of all, about the message we send to young people. Young people are a very sensitive audience. Often, such an inappropriate language is used to shock the audience, to stay with the program, to increase ratings, and we have to think about young people in a completely different context, we have to think and to choose carefully the messages that will come to them, because certainly media are a very important factor today in forming young people's views, in forming values, in forming beliefs, and those messages that are sent by some media do not seem to contribute to it. They simply send a distorted picture of the wealth being quickly acquired, that popularity is rapidly gaining. All this is not in line with our tradition, nor does it have a basis for some of the values that apply in our society. Experience in previous years has shown that the large number of measures put forward by REM just referred to a lack of respect for the rules concerning the protection of minors. As an audience, we always have to apply critically to the messages we receive, so that we don't fall into a trap to adopt some messages that the one who places us on purpose, in a perfidious way, wants to let us know. The work of REM is often discussed in the political context, i.e. the control of media content during the election campaign. It is, of course, and understandable, but we always point out from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia that REM is the one who, during the election campaign, should do his job in accordance with the law, professionally, that his role is in making his reporting fair, balanced, impartial. But on the other hand, it must be preserved independence in the work of this body. Simply, any pressure on REM's work is unacceptable, because it can only be counterproductive. For now, it is important to preserve the independence of this institution, to insist that it works in accordance with the law, and I am sure that the result of this work will be to bring into the homes of people through the media the highest quality content, the highest quality program, one educational content, and that we will set standards of good taste when we talk about the media. Our laws that regulate the work of the media are good. The procedure relating to the selection of REM Council members is good. They must first of all meet certain criteria in order to be in the selection procedure at all, then come as such before the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and then the MPs choose them, so I think it is enough just to adhere to the law and that the members of the REM Council are doing their job professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8580	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8581	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for the SPS Parliamentary Group is primarily of utmost importance and importance when we talk about the election at this time of one REM member that it is fully respected, that the Committee on Culture and Information, in particular at the session held on 30 June, held a public conversation with the proposed candidates, all in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on Electronic Media, and that a candidate from the Association of Film, Film and Drama Artists Association of the Republic of Serbia has just been proposed. So, as defined by the Electronic Media Act. I purposely emphasise this for one simple reason because during the talks with European parliamentarians that we participated in in front of the SPS Professor Zarko Obradovic and I, since the first day of the talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and also in the follow-up of the second phase of inter-party dialogue, during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, you Mr Orlic know very well, the REM issue has emerged. Why was REM interesting to the representatives of one part of the opposition? In order to bring us back a few steps to the past and once again to be one - minded, that is, that is, everyone has to think the same thing again, write and report what they think and in exactly the same way. At that time, representatives, I will remind you, the European Parliament said we should elect REM representatives in line with European standards. We at the SPS felt it was necessary to say – we respect European standards and we are for Serbia's European path, Serbia shows both determination and determination when it comes to European integration, but, let us, we must first respect our legislation. We must respect the laws adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that REM members will not be elected by political membership and not by meeting certain conditions, ultimatums and demands of a part of the opposition, but by the Law on Electronic Media. Otherwise, the question arises – where did such a hack and farce around REM come from during this very period of time? In doing so, it seems to me that those who did this forgot the essential thing, they were still representatives of this Parliament, forgot that REM was an independent regulatory body and that each of us should work to strengthen independent regulatory bodies, not to interpret the law as it suits him, to ask REM representatives to break the law and interpret the law as he believes right and to push REM into a political ring and political mud. It is up to us to control, or discuss the REM report and see if REM acts in accordance with the laws. Neither REM is a political entity, nor REM participates in the elections, nor REM defines who will win, nor who will lose in the next presidential, parliamentary and city elections. Democracy in Serbia is being realised in the elections and who will win will decide citizens in fair and democratic elections as we had the elections held in 2020. We have made it very clear that when it comes to the second phase of inter-party dialogue, Serbia is a democratic and free state and of course we are as a parliamentary group always ready to talk and work to improve conditions, electoral conditions in order to make as many citizens of Serbia participate in the next elections. We have absolutely not disputed at any moment that we should not participate and should not continue the second phase of inter-party dialogue, but we have challenged something else, which is that one part of the opposition must not be allowed to behave the way the first phase of the inter-party dialogue acted, which is to come to a conversation and say – 42 demands or boycotts. It's not a way to come up with some compromise solution or consensus, it's an ultimatum, to try to make a farce, to fool the public by caring about the choice, and you really only care about REM and the editorial policy of RTS and the electronic media, but also about the printed media, and to try to make a sacrifice out of yourself so that among Serbian citizens you can find someone else who feels like a victim and who would eventually give you support. That time has long passed and this political fog is no longer acceptable in Serbia, it is visible, recognizable, only results and absolutely nothing more are worth in Serbia today. To be clear, the second phase of the inter-party dialogue would not have come to the second stage of the inter-party dialogue if we had, as one part of the opposition said, unfair and non-democratic elections and that, as one part of the opposition said, we had an illegal and illegal parliament, because during the second phase of the inter-party dialogue, the co-chair of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, and all representatives, legitimately elected representatives in the parliamentary elections in 2020, means that we had fair and democratic elections and that we legitimately elected the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who co-chaired during the second phase of the inter-party dialogue. As a responsible and serious political party, we are a state-run party, of course, respecting the institutions of the system, and why I say by respecting the institutions of the system, because from the beginning we have been saying that the talks on election conditions, and they are very much related to REM, are very much related to the media, should be conducted in the institutions of the system. Talks should be held in parliament, not on the street, not under the tent as a tribal alliance, but in the institutions of the system. As a responsible, serious, state-run party, we have defined the platform, analysed the current political moment, analysed the previous election cycle and gave some 10 principles and principles that we believe may be a contribution to work, when it comes to election conditions and when it comes to the next extraordinary parliamentary, city, Belgrade or city and presidential elections to be held in the spring of next year. The question arises – have other political parties done so? Are other political parties and what political parties have delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? No, they, by good old custom, bypassed the institutions of the system and delivered their platform, of course, to European parliamentarians. It is, for who knows which way, a violation primarily of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They do not violate our dignity as MPs, but the citizens who voted us. They thus degrade and devalue Serbian citizens who participated in fair, I repeat, and democratic elections in 2020. I say, we tried through the platform and through the first phase of inter-party dialogue to explain to them, when it comes to editorial media policy, that we should not interfere with the editorial policy of the media, that the media should be autonomous and free to decide that the interest of ownership is certainly primary and that the privatisation strategy of the media was made in 2000. That's when the numerous media are privatized. So, you wanted capitalism, you got capitalism, and then the question arises – where today you need to try, so here you are now through REM and through participation in REM via allegedly your members, your representatives, to influence editorial policy. I'm specifically talking about the private sector. So that's how they degrade journalists, because journalists know very well what's news and what's not news. If you organize the same set every week and you have 10, 20 or 30 supporters at that same rally and you have absolutely nothing new to announce, I'm sorry, so the press knows very well that it's not news. Do not thus degrade and devaluate journalists as you have demoted and devalued Serbian citizens. We have seen that it is not worth it and that they simply do not realize that we should not interfere in the editorial policy of the media, and then in the platform that we delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we said – that, we advocate equal representation in the media, but that equal representation in the media implies not that, as you tried by a motor saw to enter the RTS and that you must fight in five minutes in an information programme or I don't know, 15 minutes, but that means debate shows, that means thematic shows, you can choose gentlemen, participate in the elections, go out with the program, participate in the the thematic debates, go out with people who are guaranteed, go out with people who are guaranteed to implement this programme, so let the citizens make a decision that will show confidence, and not in the next elections. I can see that doesn't suit them either. Among other things, we heard in the previous days that, in addition to the fact that some have not delivered the platforms and we don't really know what some representatives of the opposition are up for, one part, when it comes to the media, REM, except that they want a bigger presence, but they dispute dialogue on both sides, and that was one of the topics in the past two weeks. Let us, from the SPS parliamentary group, believe that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in agreement with the President of the Republic has made a very good move by making it possible to hear suggestions and suggestions and those political options that they wish to discuss with European parliamentarians, but also those political options that do not want to talk to European parliamentarians at all, and then try to find a certain balance when it comes to electoral conditions and respect certain suggestions and suggestions, if any, these suggestions and suggestions are available. So you cannot exclude anyone from the dialogue, and you cannot burden responsibility, when it comes to inter-party dialogue, mostly to the ruling coalition. It is not that the ruling coalition in something is wrong, it is easy for the ruling coalition to find a common denominator, this is about confusion that exists in one part of the opposition, because they no longer know who they want to talk to, one wants to talk to European parliamentarians, others do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, one does not want to talk to Ivica Dacic, others want to talk to Ivica Dacic. Wait, we're not a fountain wish. We're here to listen to suggestions and suggestions, if you have them, go ahead. We're ready to talk. If you do not have them, however, we have no objection, we have electoral conditions, elections will be scheduled within the deadline, citizens will participate in them, but it seems to us that the presence of individual European parliamentarians gives the right to one part of the opposition to propose and what I am sure they would not accept for themselves to have a part of responsibility today in Serbia. Imagine you, and you, Mr. Orlic, follow very well, imagine you, a proposal of the media to assign at this time a national frequency, or to form a ministry that will follow the election process. So, everything speaks in the same direction, which is that you want to get to power and privilege without a choice, and this is not possible in Serbia today. We predicted a few more things on the platform. I'm going to say one more thing about REM, and what we think REM should pay attention to. Namely, all political parties make a decision on the content of their electoral messages, videos, advertisements, contributions, taking into account the respect of the Information Law, respect for human and minority rights of citizens. Any advertising video, message, journalistic text should be banned, or otherwise announced by political parties or media, during an election campaign that uses hate speech and which attacks family members, including children of selected public office holders or candidates in election lists of political parties. Daily attacks on the family and children of the president of the Republic confirm that such messages are aimed at discrediting and destabilising members of the Serbian president's family and finally eliminating it from Serbia's political life. So this is something to deal with REM. If he could do so during the election campaign, in the midst of an election campaign to ban the ruling political party's video, he should also react when it comes to opposition political parties. One more thing, political parties that do not participate in the elections cannot have their own presence in the media, because if you look at REM's analysis made an analysis of the presence in the media of individual political options during the previous elections, you will see that when it comes to media service providers elsewhere, the analysis is a political option that did not participate in the elections. That can't happen. Therefore, only the electoral lists and political parties participating in the elections in our opinion can, in the opinion of our parliamentary groups, be represented in the media. Finally, there is another very interesting thing about media. I'm saying, we haven't had a chance to hear the programs, we haven't had a chance to hear the platforms, except we've heard they're going to stage some protests again. We are now wondering if the protests will be organised against European parliamentarians, if they want to organise against European parliamentarians, we suggest that it be in Brussels not to disturb this traffic across Belgrade. That would be just and just and right of them. On the other hand, we heard only two words: rematchism, and we heard the word: lustration. Now I ask the question, when you hear one of these messages, says – do you support the idea that one day the Pinka building will be torn down with the reason that it does not meet the municipal criteria or another legitimate reason, and that in its place a monument of freedom of speech will be erected through a transparent process of public procurement? We ask the question – is this a policy of rematchism towards the media? Will they treat the media this way if they have a part of political responsibility, and we are convinced that they will not, because they are the plus-squamperfect of Serbia's political scene? While these ruling coalitions are free to think, freedom of speech, freedom of expression will be the main postulate of democratic society as Serbia is today. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8582	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Since it seems to me you've spoken to me twice in your presentation. Let me tell you, the question you asked, what do I think these people were talking about REM in that way, about the media in general? My opinion is that because they think it would ensure that all the media in Serbia look what it looks like in their media. So, that all media in this country are doing what the media is doing under the control of these former regimes, so that perhaps all the media in Serbia today see Veljka Belivuk as the main star, as their media has, or that everyone has on the cover what they had at the time of that dialogue in the "Tabloid" magazine, that as it were, one bullet in Vukica solves all the problems in Serbia. They obviously think that all the media should look that way, that the whole state should look that way, and that's obviously their policy that they would run for in front of this people, and it's good for the people to know, that based on everything that people who want to deal with politics offer, tomorrow they can decide whether they want to vote for these things or for someone different, I would say, certainly better Serbia. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8583	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that the selection of REM council members is certainly important and important in itself, because it is primarily causing a special kind of public attention, but also political actors, above all those who are making opposition today. I would also agree with the presentation of counterpart Milicevic in large part, and I would also agree with the quite thorough presentation of our colleague Sandra Bozic, but you see the respected citizens of Serbia from all these previous exhibitions as much as the REM and REM issue is politicised by those people who do not know how to send any other message, and they do not have how many people who claim to return to power today only want to come to power without the support of citizens. Is it through some cheap manipulation, whether it's through what they think is a comprehensive media presence, whether it's a street issue or as Mr. Orlic just pointed out, one bullet that would solve everything. In this way, if they kill Alexander Vukic, that he will solve all the problems that plague them and that in this chaos, as some vultures, he will take advantage of the opportunity and come to power. When we talk about REM, I listened carefully to previous statements, and I believe that because of the amount of data that fellow MPs wanted to bring out, there was a very important information here, which is the fact that in these negotiations the authorities and the opposition in which you participated and in which you spoke there is a Democratic Party which, you imagine now, has its vice president who, respected Serbian citizens, is an editor on Serbian television. So, at RTS, the Democratic Party's vice president is Tatjana Manojlovic. So, at one point, he's setting up politics at RTS, but at the same time he's also vice president of the Democratic Party. So now I wonder what Dragan Gilas or Lutovac, Vuk Jeremic would do if, hypothetically, the SNS vice president were to edit RTS or any other medium. What is also symptomatic here is also a fact, and Mr Milicevic also said that some representatives of the former Democratic Party regime, now translated into another party, such as the People's Party Vuk Jeremic, are now suggesting that any media that they do not like or who consider their enemy should be brought to an end and it clearly states there that there is no legal basis for why they would tear down that building, it is a Pink TV building, but rather bid on the pretext that it does not fit or that there is no respect for some sort of municipal order. So, you've already got an announcement here that they're going to invent some kind of hypothetical reason, if they come to power, to tear down that building. And when you take all this into account, things that came up yesterday, like some kind of statement, it's really worrying if you're looking at them from the corner of an ordinary citizen and a man who just follows the news, see, for general information. The fact that Alexander Vukic is now guilty, in addition to raining or shining the sun, is a new method of reckoning with Alexander Vukic, which is now that man is guilty and because in some media race between the "Arena sport" and "Sport Club" "Arena sport" took over the primate and took over the prime minister's league on his canals. What's worrying here is the fact that this is just another special kind of pressure on President Alexander Vukic, and now I'm going to tell you why. Over the past few years, Sports Club and United Media Dragan Solak and Dragan Gilas have lost many significant competitions, such as the NBA League, i.e. American basketball leagues, the most famous and popular basketball leagues in the world, lost in 2019. This year they already lost the Spanish La League, which will also be transferred to "Arena Sport". But now in this systematic attack by Alexander Vukic, they have also joined in losing the prime minister's league since next season. And this is just another indicator of hysteria that is happening in the opposition and shows you how much money they will not choose to attack or in any way harm the Serbian government's policy, above all Alexander Vukic. And when I tell you all this, it's very important that we stress all of this for the simple reason that the candidate who will be elected today will have to take care of all of this, because the part-action of REM is clearly defined. What is particularly interesting, I see that they are trying to place a burden on us, but they are wrong, because anyone who wants to do a little politics or understands the work of REM can clearly read that for performing the tasks of their jurisdiction the regulator is responsible to the National Assembly, therefore to the MPs. But what concerns me, and I already have several discussions from this place, is the fact that Article 15 states: “REM lays down closer rules concerning software content regarding the protection of the dignity of a person and other personal rights, the protection of the rights of minors and the prohibition of hate speech. ” Now I ask you - how many times have some media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas threatened this member, caused hatred, prompted the murder of President Alexander Vukic and his family? It is well emphasized: “Protect the dignity of a person and other personal rights, the protection of the rights of a minor. ” On those TVs, it was auctioned for the murder of the underage daughter and son of President Alexander Vukic. They will tell you, as many times, we are not in charge. But no problem. In Article 14 – this regulatory body provides an initiative to adopt and amend the laws of other regulations, general acts, in order to carry out the work effectively from its work cycle. So come on, gentlemen, give the initiative, suggest something, that we discuss this together in the Assembly and protect everyone in this country by law. When I say, everyone, I stress it for the simple reason that from these examples, as well as from discussions earlier or from examples on these televisions, you can see how many representatives of the SNS have been attacked, ridiculed, exposed to any threats, and that no one in this regulatory body has ever responded. And that's something that we have to make peace with, to accept that it is, but that we all work together as a society so that no one can ever do that again. When we talk about all this, I especially want to point out the thing that's going on today. I think Mr. Orlic made a great persuasion for me in his presentation, but before that, Mrs. Christmas had a great discussion about it. Today we are witnessing a paradoxical situation that people who are accused and suspected of the worst possible crimes, of the most monstrous crimes, are now media stars. On some media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, we have now entered the sixth hour where their words are taken as amen and that the lies of this man who is suspected of the most monstrous crimes are perceived as an axiom and that in this way, Alexander Vukic is again accused and trying to do him some damage. If you take into account that Belivuk today is a feather of one part of the opposition and that there is no party from the former Democratic Party regime, which emerged from that deposit that has accumulated, it is amazing that everyone today celebrates him, praises him, and supports everything he has said. The man who paints himself with the body of an almost retired man who's been charged with the most monstrous crimes today is their leader and protected face. And all I'm saying today is that citizens are able to see and read, because there's no party that hasn't issued a statement and supported what that man said, and all with the aim of, in the absence of any policy, programme and idea, doing any damage to Alexander Vukic, even if he was an ally and someone who was grinding people in a meat machine. I'm just saying all this to the facts and arguments. And when citizens think that such a thing can't go on, yesterday at a SNS stand a man approached me and asked me – is it possible that Vice President Vladimir Gajic represented and defended the man who was suspected of being part of the Veljak Belivuk clan, who, by the way, was one of the closest associates, and yesterday Vladimir Gajic praised that he was released? So now I ask you, is it normal for people who claim power today to work closely with them and support what they say today, even though they know it is a monstrous lie? Today Mrs. Christmas mentioned another Vladimir, only Vuletic is at stake here. This man boasts today, mocks and mocks both the SNS and us as MPs, and a few months ago we were able to hear how he said to that same Veljak Belivuk. You know how much your brother, brother, loves you, how much your brother loves you. Is it right now that citizens are wondering who's crazy here, and is it possible that they're so offended by intelligence, trying this way to wash their hands of themselves and of their brothers or brothers or what they call themselves? It's a shame everything that's going on and it's a shame that today they're trying to get President Alexander Vukic, who's never seen this Belivuk, to make one of them, who apparently worked closely with them. I am convinced that citizens will not fall for this cheap manipulation, because how can you believe the people who have ruined our country, who are running away from the polygraphs for the most common questions and who are hiding behind a variety of serious diseases, or I don't know any recommendations from doctors, like this Vuletic, who was drilling into his chest to go for a polygraph, and when it came to a polygraph, he escaped from it faster and better. Or Dragan Gilas, who agreed to go on a polygraph, and when he was offered it, to explain to us where he came from, said he wouldn't. Unlike them, Alexander Vukic was always brave, knowing that he had words behind him, but above all else. Here, and today he offered to go for a polygraph, but to them and it's not enough, but in his mud he would try to roll as long as possible, so that, again, he would do any damage to Alexander Vukic, first of all. It is obvious that the accelerated development of our country, a sharp and uncompromising fight against organised crime, bothers many, because they know that citizens finally see progress, finally see light at the end of the tunnel by coming to power and finally having a man like Aleksandar Vukic, whose only goal and top priority is the better life of all Serbian citizens. I am convinced by this, that my fellow Members, the MPs, but all members of the SNS, as well as every time so far, will courageously stand by President Aleksandr Vukic, and that we will respond to these lies and lies, the monstrous vomit and the construction of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic or this Vuletic, with even greater work and even greater pawnage, but what is most important, with truth and new projects, which will guarantee us all an even better life, an even better future for all our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8584	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. Since you spoke directly to me on the subject of this campaign that's being held today. You know what, how true it is, or not true, it is quite clear to those who are involved and who have been leading that hunt all this day. You know what Boris Tadic said today, on the subject, "it doesn't matter whether the Belivok's actual statement is true", it doesn't matter if it's true. All they care about is that it's something they can use against Alexander Vukic, it's the only thing that matters in this case and in any case. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8585	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, honourable citizens, I will appeal to REM, the REM issue, whether they will respond today to a media attack on the state. Just today, when all the Gilasian media declared the truth to be the mindless lies of one executioner, slayer and murderer. I think we do, I'll remind you of the complaints to REM, by the Gilasov media and the parties, about the violence in reality. This is a million times worse, what's happening today. This is a promotion of murderers and murderers, a promotion of crime and the mafia, from the cost of all Gilasov media. Are they going to complain to REM on their own now? Will the Association Journalist react to this drastic violation of journalistic and media standards? So, these media and KRIK and the SSP, meaning the party of Gilasova, represent from everything we saw today, and before, the slaughterer of Belivuk, and about the credibility of KRIK, testifying and the following facts, simply, as from police reports, but also from the United Arab Emirates, where Stevan Dojcinovic, the KRIK rodent in 2019, was deported from this country, from the UAE, because it was designated by the authorities of the country, as a person dangerous for national security. Also, if this wasn't a lonely case, the same Dojcinovic, KRIK's rodent, was arrested at the airport in 2015, Moscow and was immediately spent in prison, deported to Serbia and permanently banned from entering Russia, for how many decades. The Russian secret service officially marked Dojcinovic, I quote -- "a threat under national security and public health". I claim it's also a case in Serbia, only someone has to declare it. A year ago, in June 2020, I will remind you, last year, KRIK was tasked with firing young Danil Vukic, and they came forward, KRIK has long worked for Gilas, who regularly finance them. At that time, during the election campaign last year, KRIK repeatedly targeted Serbian President Danil Vukic's son, endangering his security by misrepresenting him as a person who is a member of a criminal clan. Now, that's what they're going to try and try again today, both Vuletic and all those in the media. And KRIK's journalists followed, last year, except for Danil Vukic and Predrag Malo's brother, at the home address and home address, and KRIK even followed up on the news reports, and harassed Predrag Mali's wife and two-year-old child. Now KRIK has been given a new task, to be included in a campaign to defend the Belivuk mafia clan, KRIK claims Belivuk came into possession of a transcript of the Belivuk hearing, from the prosecution on July 5th. Look, that was almost three weeks ago. That transcript is immediately, I say, given Belivuk himself, that same day, and it's, and it's about being clear to everyone, about one worthless piece of paper everyone can get to, but it's logical that in this case now, after three weeks, for some reason, the lawyers and Belivuk himself decided to pass the transcript to the media, and we don't know if he's authentic. Of course, they were lies, but if they were adding something, changing it, we don't know it at all. So, the transcript itself may not be a fake, but in any case, a bunch of lies, so the statement of a murderer, a murderer, was given July 5th. However, we do not know whether KRIK has obtained this transcript in a legitimate manner. We don't know who he got it from, they'll say he'll protect his sources. What's he gonna protect? The lawlessness? So, by command, KRIK's claims, i.e. Belivuk today and Belivuk's hallucinogenic lies, all the Gilasian media reported, so one 20 media, currently for the seventh hour, has been buzzing about it. And none of these media can explain this worthless character of a transcript. All these Gilassky media, this transcript, the statements of one proven murderer and slayer, plus the mega drug dealer, represent, as a great truth. On the other hand, here's how the famous opposition journalist who is in no way favoring the government, Dusan Masic, reacted to these Belivuk lies and KRIK's today. It says - it is time to remind ourselves again, Dusan Masic says, that the defendants can defend themselves in every way possible, including lying. That's how that system works everywhere. Just because I trust KRIK, Masic says, doesn't mean I trust Belivuk. Well, of course. Let's just remember, what's the crime-terrorist clan of Belivuk-Zvicer charged with? Not charged with cigarette trade, candy, but the prosecution of organised crime officially announced on July 13th that a re-expanded investigation against members of the organised crime group Veljak Belivuka, due to a total of five serious murders. However, Belivuk's clan is charged with both criminal association and drug trafficking, illicit holding and carrying of weapons and explosives, which is evidenced by the huge amount of military weapons found in their warehouses. So Veljko Belivuk, head of the Zvice crime group, is today, i.e. On July 5th and today, he decided, he probably places it on Gilas yesterday, and decided to defend himself by carrying out various mirages and hallucinations, about his, you will not believe, alleged friendship and co-operation with the president of Serbia. He did it knowing that these disgusting lies would be transmitted by all the Gilas media, because that's what they agreed. And Belivuk then announced fantastic fiction, listen to this, that he was in charge of controlling opposition protests, of peace at the Pride Parade, I mean, we can probably laugh here, to calm down the protest of taxi drivers and Kargo, for general peace in the football stands, and he was probably in charge of world peace, the great peacemaker, the executioner Belivuk. And to remind you that Belivuk himself claims to deny all these crimes that are being put on him, that he claims to be innocent and not to be a criminal, that he's only a fan leader and that he didn't commit any crime, and then he says best, about the truthfulness of his statements in the transcript from the hearing. However, when I talk about this hearing, it is indicative that I am Belivuk at the hearing, he did not want to answer any of the prosecutor's questions about his crimes, which he was accused of, but was talking about, but was hallucinating about the things I mentioned. Of course, both Belivuk and KRIK, according to a well-tested recipe, are dragging Danil Vukic into everything again. KRIK was ordered to believe and tell Belivuk's lies, knowing that then the 100 megaphones of Gilas would repeat. The public needs to know that the authorities are doing great in the fight against crime, which is exactly what you can see in the case of the Belivuk criminal clan processing, and yet the public should know that today one of the Belivuk criminal clan's spokesmans, this man who is accused of paedophilia, a regular pedophile, and an extraordinary professor of the Law Faculty, appeared, and otherwise he founded the party for the needs of Veljko Belivuk, who is called "black on white". And today she also reported, because Belivuk's clan received another spokesman, Marinik, who also reported today through a statement, she and Gilas, via a statement from their party. I'll remind you that the other day, Marinika attacked and that's exactly why they launched these Belivuk's lies today from the Transtript, the Marinika attacked and the strictest minister of Vulin, because the state showed the crime situation of the Belivuk clan, showed the famous already shadowed photographs of the murders, where the bloodstains like the Ustasha laugh, when they slaughter, when they simply massacre their victims with knives. They filmed it themselves and stored it in their encrypted phones, which they didn't believe anyone would find out about. That then caused what we see today. By the way, in her statement she sided with, of course, the Veljak Belivuka clan, the executioner, she constantly beats Velja, my Velja, and she calls the slaughter fans and praises the scandal of the slayer against the president. Let me explain one more time why Secretary Vulin's move is undeniable. It's undeniable because it's part of the fight against the Belivuk mob clan, which, of course, wages a propaganda war against the state, because some people don't believe, as they don't believe in vaccines, they don't believe that the clan butchered and slaughtered people. Now that only a small and relaxed part of the terrible evidence is shown, many people probably believe it now. It's just that part of the fight against the mob is a propaganda fight. The Belivuk massacre clan has its own political and media wing and it is clear today. He's got a lot of support in the media. When the state shows what kind of criminals they're dealing with, then there's this attack like today. There are, once again, at least two parties, possibly Jeremic, and at least two parties representing the Belivuk clan, these are this party, Vuletic, black on white and Gilas' party. As a counter-reaction to these photos and to evidence of the crimes of the Belivuk clan, the Jilassian media launched today a transcript, a worthless lie of a murderer and a murderer. And they're right on the Jilassian media, like mushrooms based on this single text of zero hundred today texts in 20 different media, making television portals etc. where different texts were published. This was the report by the Vuletic clan who launched the text in many media, his interview under the title, quote – Vuletić, the best friend of Danilov was the connection between Vukic and Belivuk. Belivuk clan spokesman Vuletic says openly in this text and that is one of the most important things, which is the goal of publishing Belivuk's lies. He says the clan's spokesman, a pedophile suspect, is seeking the resignation of Serbia's president. And that's their goal. And why is he asking for the president's resignation? For testifying to one proven butcher in some worthless transcripts. That's their goal. Uncanny in his interview, this paedophile Vuletic confirms that he had numerous contacts with Belivuk, as vice president of Partizan. And even more carelessly, Vuleltić in an interview confirms that he was a frequent guest in Belivuk's apartments, precisely in that apartment mentioned in a transcript on Starar, and in one of Belivuk's apartments on Starar who bought the apartment Vuletic himself. They expressed their position, of course, and those of the Belivuk-Marinika-Dilas clan, in a statement by the SAA, I will only read his title – it is now clear why the state has not responded for years, so now they are beating on Velya trouble. Gilas' party representing the murderous clan, Belivuk–Zvicer takes for granted Belivuk's inventions. And finally, Gilas and Marinika, as we can see, trust Belivuk unconditionally. And that's proof of what I've been saying for months, here in parliament I say, Gilas' free robbery party is the political wing of the armed wing, i.e. Belivuk Mafia clan – Zviker. It's not snow to cover the hill. It's snow to show the beast's tracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8586	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8587	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the beginning of my today's exhibition, I would like to take the opportunity to, although not present, because in an official visit to Italy, I congratulate the President of the National Assembly and SPS Mr Ivica Dacic, as well as colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, all members and many supporters of the 31 years of the existence of the SPS. Thirty-one years of existence in all circumstances, opportunities and troubles, exceptional capital. Thirty-one years of existence in its timeline keeps a part of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people, a lot of knowledge and experience, defeat and victory, a lot of facts, a lot of truth. It may not always have been easy, but the idea of social justice and equal opportunities for everyone, for whom the SPS has been behind all the years, will survive as long as there are people on the planet and we who believe in it and believe that it is accessible and we work to reach it, for the sake of ourselves and society in general. When we talk about today's agenda item concerning the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, someone would say - it's just another selection of members of a council, but still not. The importance of the existence of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is extremely large, because we are all aware of the influence of the media on the overall social atmosphere, the polarisation that is made with or without intention, the devaluation of the system of values and behaviours, and especially of young people, but also of political factors and of course the propagation of culture, i.e. the non-culture that surrounds us. In accordance with Article 22. The Law on Electronic Media which determines the work of the Regulator, REM, because of all of these competences, carries a very important part of the responsibility for the media atmosphere in society. It is important to point out that I believe that the proposed candidates, Mr Bozidar Zečević and Mr Stanko Crnobrnja, are two outstanding candidates with perfect biographies and I am not sure that with the years I have been invited to comment on their character and work in any other way than to sincerely thank the Association of Film Artists for the suggestions they made to the Committee on Culture and Informing the National Assembly. The candidate who will be elected I want a lot of success in the work that will mean that their attitudes that they have presented through the discussion with the members of the Committee on Culture and Information push through to the end and at least a partial attempt to place everything they have spoken about in their presentations. One and the other candidates, of course, with all their knowledge, experience and intelligence, are absolutely aware of all the factors and factors of the media atmosphere, and I am personally pleased that they have highlighted public speech as the first station from which to start and react so that if we still have time to focus on culture, education and that old "nice word and iron door opens" and that fight, violence, ugly dictionary, promiscuity, crime is just a guideline for something not called "happy end". They are aware of the candidates and the aspirations of media service providers towards monopoly, which we can understand in the competition, but we cannot be confused with the fact that certain commercial providers of media services are users of national frequencies and, as such, they would have to comply with the Law on Electronic Media, but also with software concepts that give them the same frequencies and are allocated, because as such they represent extremely powerful cultural institutions, or at least they should represent them. Today, if we take into account the candidates and their biography, knowledge and experience, the quality of the ninth mind that the Board of Regulators will receive is not questioned, it is more important that we, as the Supervisory Authority of the Regulators, talk about the role and activity of the body which is a strategy for the development of the public information system, which the Government adopted in January 2020, does not see in practice as fully independent and in part due to the lack of regulation, and partly due to inadequate application or absence of the already existing regulatory framework, which may be most visible under the control of the work of media service providers. According to the current Law on Electronic Media, the obligations of media service providers are clearly stated in relation to the software content which implies that the media service provider is obliged to contribute to raising the general level of cultural and educational citizens, as well as not to provide software content that points out and supports narcotics, violence, criminal or other illegal behaviour, to respect in all software content the dignity of personality and human rights, and that the regulator is particularly old, not to display humiliating treatment and scenes of violence unless there is a programme and artistic justification. Speaking from my personal angle very often, as a consumer of media content, I didn't feel protected by the Regulatory Body when it came to certain scenes of violence that we had had the opportunity to send in certain reality programs, and I am convinced that a large part of the public agrees with me and feels the same or similar to me, especially if we have in mind that a number of the youngest who mentioned the contents, as at hand, in ad hoc polls expressed their desire that when they grew up, instead of Ivana Spainovic or Novak Djokovic, they became starlets or fierce boys. What the Law on Electronic Media and the strategy for the development of information means clearly sees is the need to support the development of media pluralism, which implies a variety of ownership, a source of information and media content. The vast majority of media service providers are dominated exclusively by entertainment content, including the already mentioned reality programs except for an information programme that has a relatively fixed location and a fixed volume, while children's, scientific-educated, cultural-art programs are represented in negligible percentages or are not shown at all on commercial televisions. All of the above confirms the report of REM for 2020 on programmes broadcast by commercial media service providers. The general conclusion of the report is that almost all commercial providers of cultural and artistic media services, documentary, scientific-educated, children's, sports programs are not broadcast or broadcast at all as a percentage of a flat statistical error. The programme policy of the broadcaster is the software policy of the broadcaster, but concerns the fact that in REM's report it clearly finds that the broadcasters do not meet the conditions under which they have been assigned frequencies on the programming platform which they have prepared and which they have applied for the competition. And instead of reacting, REM remains silent on non-fulfilment of conditions, as well as on various scenes of violence and bad examples of behaviour in reality programs, as well as on many other phenomena that have a negative impact on society and young people. In the absence of a regulatory REM, there is only room for infringements which concern most the infringements of the Law on advertising of different products or components. Why is it important to make changes to the legislation and to give REM the necessary powers, the space to react, the space to give adequate measures, monetary and other sanctions, and until the potential confiscation of the given national frequency, to which REM authority would be left? Because of the neglect of the needs of all media content consumers, and mostly because of young people, children, due to research data from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which I spoke about in my previous presentation on the same subject, that only 4% and 6% of young people surveyed see scientists and artists as their role models, that 90% of the young surveyed were never a member of any cultural and sports society, nor is that intended. We must also think of a critical thought that children and young people cannot build without clear guidance from family, friends, schools and societies that have a great influence on media content that is channeled from television to social networks and portals and become available and practically accepted. We must, as a society, show by example generations that there is no easy profit, that work has created a man, that we value knowledge, intelligence, good behavior, that we have a moral vertical in every sense and that crime has no happy ending, as may be shown in film and serial, and some reality programs. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and on behalf of the future elected member of the Board of Regulators, as well as the whole of the Council, I want a lot of success in the work and that as a team they act courageously and complicatedly, because the citizens of Serbia expect our results and your results, especially in a field that directly or indirectly affects their children and grandchildren and their intellectual and spiritual development, and hence their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8588	Thank you. The next is MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8589	Thank you, Mr. Hardy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever we talk about the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, when we choose members of the REM Council, it is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of what the main role of this institution is, why it exists and why it is important to have one institution like this. As our authorised representative Sandra Christmas said in the introduction of the presentation, it is a protection of public interest in the field of electronic media and protection of users of electronic media services, and in accordance with the law. Why am I bringing this up? Because I have asked REM several times myself and I have asked them to react several times in a number of situations when certain electronic media abuse this law and provisions of the law, leading a dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic, but also all those who, I say, dare to publicly support Alexander Vukic's policy. Of course, I'm not going to point out which media is at stake, which is television, because I am convinced that citizens know what TV is about, which tycoons are the owners of these TVs, which the tycoons finance them, and their activities are also reduced to, otherwise, an unfeeling campaign against Alexander Vukic seven days a week and 24 hours a day. It's nothing new, they've been doing it for years, but what's new and what happened yesterday and what's so far unrecorded in Serbia, one of these Gilas's TV shows has been broadcast a show that's usually abounding with the most diverse vulgarities, the most diverse gauzes, the proscration, and the water is two obscenuous characters. One presents himself as a writer. I don't know if he wrote what he wrote. He became known only for having the ability to record in a short period of time a number of disgust and swearing excuses, while others are presented as journalists and columnists. However, he is only known for his timely funding of Zelenovic while he was harassing Sapcem. Yesterday on the show as a guest, the two had a political analyst from Pristina, a certain Fadil Lepajay, who during yesterday's show, literally throughout the whole show, the worst possible abominations and the most monstrous accusations against both Serbia and the Serb people, of course, the most disgusting attack by Alexander Vukic. So during the whole show, it was open, naked like that, it came from Kurti's positions, from an independent Kosovo position, while these two scumbags were just giggling at it all the time. At no time have they tried to oppose Kosovo's independence. So, no moment, no word, no gesture. They even openly enjoyed every insult brought out by the man who stands out for himself in his own biography that he was a member of the KLA, so-called. Kosovo Liberation Army. So there were accusations that Vukic views dialogue with Pristina as a continuation of the war, as it makes some kind of big Serbia. Again, those famous rape claims were heard, I don't know how many Albanians by the Serb military, Serbian police, alleged crimes, some genocides, etc. And that's all said by a man who publicly admits to himself that he was a KLA member. And these two lowlifes invite him on the show to tell us here in Serbia that in Serbia, the worst people in the world, that Serbs are murderers, that Serbs are criminals, that Vucic is a villain and that Serbia has committed some genocide. Here, in the middle of Serbia? Well, shame on you! Shame on you both to be this Vidojković and this Hulachin and you with "New" and all of you together! To what extent can hate against its own people and their own state? Is there any end to that? So I'm asking REM if and how will it react and prevent these phenomena from occurring in the future? Why would I ask that? Because I am convinced that the same Gilas media in the coming period will continue with an even stronger and even more brutal campaign and as the election approaches, the campaign will become dirtier and dirtier. Here, we see today that both Gilas and N1 and KRIK and all of them are together. Already today, they started a campaign of lies and a replacement of thesis, using Veljko Belivuk's statement, which many previous speakers spoke of. Like someone's gonna believe that in Serbia? Like there's a man in Serbia who's willing to believe the lie of Velja Belivuk? So, first they relativated the fight against organised crime in Serbia, and then they tried not to support the results achieved in that fight, so when they saw that it wasn't helping them either, they took statements from the worst possible criminals, and they hope there is a man in Serbia who can believe them. So it is already quite evident here that we have a new coalition – Gilas, "N1", KRIK, Veljko Belivuk. It's all a sign of equality, it's all the same, but you're free of that coalition, and you're free of it. You are free of all the lies you will tell, because you will not cause Alexander Vukic any political damage in this way because the citizens of Serbia know well who robbed them all these decades while they were harassing Serbia and who is fighting for their national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8590	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8591	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, journalists have the right to report in the manner of the editorial policy of their house. Let's not forget that the capital behind the media is actually forming an editorial policy that journalists are following. So media owners are those who determine editorial policy and no one dispute their right to do so if they do so in respect of the Media Act, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Advertising. Often when we go out to some journalists, in principle, we go out to foreign correspondents, and we don't have the strength to call it that. If you make a statement to a journalist whose media is registered in Luxembourg, Belgium, Switzerland, etc., you are actually making a statement to a foreign reporter. Recently, a medium registered in Luxembourg, belonging to Šolak and Gilas, which determines the editorial policy of these media, which has 30 of their own channels, which have an operator or operator who can distribute 500 television channels and most complain about media freedoms, recently announced one news, as Nikola Radisic, a correspondent for N1 television in Luxembourg, received the Duke of Luxembourg's award. They literally posted it that way. Nikola Radisic, a correspondent for N1 television from Luxembourg, received a prize from the Duke of Luxembourg. If they are registered in Luxembourg, then he is not a correspondent in Luxembourg, but is a journalist in Luxembourg television, and a correspondent can only be in Serbia. We, ladies and gentlemen, this link experienced by the President of the Republic, many MPs and many activists of ruling parties, so let's say Dragan Markovic Palma, is mainly placed through these media, whose owners are also politicians. That's why I keep saying we don't have a problem with the opposition, but with the part of the opposition representing Solakov's business and Gilas's company. In principle, we have a problem with the School's business and Gilas's company and whoever doesn't fit into them will be subject to the dirtiest campaign we're experiencing today for the cheerleading group, or part of the so-called. FK fan group "Partizan", and I as a Partizan fan cannot accept these characters as fans not "Partizana", but for fans of any low-class club, because fans, people have never done what they did. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with regard to Solak's business and Gilas's company, there's the Law on Electronic Media, there's a Law on Advertising, and I don't keep talking about cross-border television re-emissioning, the very expression that this television is across the border means that there's been a prior broadcast, because there's no revaccination without vaccination, so there's no re-emission without basic broadcasting in that cross-border television. And they want to convince us that the programme that comes from this company and from Solak's business is coming from Luxembourg, although the fact is that this programme is being created and distributed in Belgrade. But let's take what they claim to be cross-border television re-emitting the program. Article 27. The advertising law says that televisions re-emitting the programme, cross-border television, Article 27 re-emissioning the programme have no right to advertise, unless it is part of the original programme, i.e. in Luxembourg. If they say they are cross-border television, all commercials broadcast in Luxembourg can show in Serbia. That's not the case. These TVs, cross-border, which re-emitting the programme, pay Serbia nothing. They don't pay anything like any other cross-border television, there are hundreds of them, but let's say that 30 television channels across the border, registered in Luxembourg, belong to Gilas and Solaku. They don't pay anything here, because by law they don't have the right to revenue, i.e. They don't have the right to market. Without marketing in private media, there is no income unless there is no marketing. Therefore, they do not pay RATEL, REM, SOKOJ, or various organisations for performance and copyright, because they cannot use the marketing market in this country, but this market should only be used by local, regional and national TV stations registered in the territory of Serbia and paying all REM, which receives incomes only from these televisions and these electronic media, which are part of the income, pay REM, RATEL, SOKOJ, taxes, etc. From that, they have the right to marketing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What's going on? Those who claim to be reportedly foreign television suddenly took part in the marketing market and broadcast Serbian ads. And don't let anyone tell me that, say, the A1 mobile network in Serbia is advertised in Luxembourg and that someone is saying that "Jelen", "Začarski beer", "Diamant", etc. Advertises in Luxembourg. It's simply not true and it's not an integral part of the original program. These candidates who are elected REM are asked to comply with the Law on Electronic Media and Advertising to order such channels to be excluded from the operating networks, regardless of which, whether Telenor, Telekom, MTS, SBB, Total, EON and so on. because they violate the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Advertising. They take something that doesn't belong to them, so they steal, steal, and thus violate the freedom of the media. If you leave your domestic media with the theft of their advertising and marketing markets without money, what will they pay the wages, the production of the programme, and what will they pay REM, SOKOJ and various copyright organisations? What income will they pay for those obligations if someone steals a part of their market? In this way media freedom is collapsing, because such media is then exclusively living on state aid, projects, etc. Or from competitions conducted by local self-government. That's not good for us either. So we ask them to stop doing that and get REM to sanction it. In such a way, let's say, on local televisions and regional televisions, when a competition is called by municipalities, etc., whoever gets the money represents the president of the municipality and the ruling furniture in that municipality, because they have been violated the right to be quite independent through marketing and thus safeguard their independence. Opposition journalism is not independent journalism. It's only opposition, and these unfortunate political opponents think it's when the media spits on Vukic and all of us, that it's independent journalism. No, I don't. It is an unobstructed opposition journalism that is far worse than those media that may be following the government, because in such a way the opposition that should criticise the ruling set in the right way, it resorts to various marifettes, dirt, etc., because through ownership in opposition media they can do whatever they want. We have not shared frequencies, nor are we media owners, unlike them, to make such objections about the freedom of the media, they respect that freedom, taking some of the money. It's not just 30 of their channels. Lately you remembered, you who have SBB, Total and EON that even in the classic cross-border channels of type Fox, History, Discovery, Sinestar lately, which has been registered in Croatia, therefore, insert commercials when these foreign ads go to their countries, in this term they put domestic ads in Serbia and thus further endanger domestic media and take away part of their market. Now that you take these channels belonging to Gilas and Solaku, especially those from sports and entertainment, Grand, 13 Sport clubs, etc., have a huge number of seconds, in total I have collected that without 200,000 seconds of "Direct Media", "CAS Media", "United Media", and all these canals are placed daily, stealing from domestic media, 200,000 seconds only two euros, and the second in sport clubs when the World Cup, European Championship, which they illegally transfer, and qualifications, reaches 100 times the price, but only to take two euros one second, at 200,000 seconds a day they take from domestic media registered in Serbia 400,000 euros times 365 days, that's 150 million euros. When you take unauthorized games, which have no right to transfer, you get more subscribers, and then they pump that money up by paying, allegedly, re-emissioning to Switzerland, Luxembourg, etc. When you take it, their illegal profit is over 200m euros a year, paying for activities against the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking all of you, and so are they, if they're watching this transmission. Do we love our country? The election campaign is about to begin. Do you love your country? I'm asking all of you, and I'm asking them. If we love our country then we will not allow foreign television, they claim foreign television, participate in the election process, election opportunities in Serbia ahead of the elections, during the election campaign, and even in the time of vote counting, determining results. If we're going to let foreign television do that, then we're doing something that no country does. Think of some Americans, and this N1 says that those heritage something SNN. We remember how much they're on Facebook for, and I don't know what, because of some influence, like the Russians, how much rebellion has gone up. We remember the thunderous scream – Moscow interfered with social networks etc. This isn't just about social networks. This is about the media that claim, on the one hand, that they're cross-border, foreign, and on the other hand they take the commercial, like they're domestic, to our domestic media. They are involved in curbing freedom of the media because they are kidnapping part of the income, and on the other hand, the money they receive is investing in the destruction of Serbia's legally elected government. That's not the problem either. I think they are taking part in the destruction of the Republic of Serbia and its reputation, its sovereignty and integrity. If we love our country, then we cannot allow foreign media to participate, not only in advertising, but also participate in pre-election shows. These are foreign, Luxembourg television, and I don't know where they're registered, because that's how they affect political opportunities and the schedule of political forces in Serbia. No country would allow that. That's why I'm asking School's business and Gilas's company. I've been saying that for three years. In the end, all these political opponents who are employed by Gilas' company, now I don't know if we have a political party in that media or if we have media in the political party, it's all funny. A serious question for both us and for you -- whether we're going to let these thieves, cheats, etc. to use the media that are illegal, to take the market, to participate in pre-election opportunities, even the troubles they create in the Republic of Serbia, or are we going to put an end to such behaviour and the robbery of domestic media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8592	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8593	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Orlic, fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today witnessing the shameful attacks of the Gilas media against the president of the Republic of Serbia and SNS Alexander Vukic. These media outlets, not to list them now, who are in the service of Dragan Gilas, have today confirmed that they are also in the mafia service. In the service are the mafia clan Veljko Belivuk, Mark Miljkovic and their counterparts, and these are in the service of these mafia clans at times when Serbia records serious results from day to day, just as far as the fight against the mafia is concerned. With that in mind, I would like to commend and respond to all the dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and all that they have said, starting with dear colleague Sandra Bozic, to Risticevic, Markovic, Mirkovic and others and Mr Orlic, on a few occasions, in response to these monsters from the mafia clans and monsters from the political scene. You know how when we have a situation where mob clans in Serbia kill, kidnap and rip heads off Serbian citizens, we have to be there either against the mafia or on the side of the mob. Everyone's normal is against the mob. So, as the Serbian president also announced today, the victims were stripping their scalps so that meat grinding machines wouldn't get stuck. These mob clans will no longer kidnap or kill Serbia, and they will no longer have their servants in the MUP, will no longer sell drugs on the streets of Serbian citizens, will no longer sell drugs to our children. These monsters are the place where they are now, and also those monsters that are on the loose from Zvicero and Belivuk's clan hiding in the region, in Europe, in the white world, behind bars. And that's how it's gonna be. In that fight, we witness daily terrible attacks against all those who lead that fight against the mob. Have you seen in one country in Europe that individual portals, media, printed and electronic and those with foreign capital and those registered in Luxembourg, and some here that are registered in Serbia... So, they run a fake-scared campaign, not only against the president of Serbia, but against the state of Serbia. They write and tell the public whatever they want. They lie to the public, lie to the citizens, and they're in the service of criminal clans. I hope that REM and all the competent institutions will react to what we are witnessing today. I'm glad we all got up today. Today, the Serbian Parliament stood up, stood up in defense of the truth, stood up in support of the fight against the mafia, stood up against the criminal clans. What do the media look like? What are these media? What is that part of the opposition politician? What are they? Subparoles of mob clans? Are these mob clans in the service of that part of opposition politicians or are these politicians in the service of mob clans? Still, both are, to say the least, disgusting and deserved every conviction. So, in the end, I want to say, and even if my dear colleagues are to arrive to speak, every day we need to make every point of both full support and support to the MUP, BIA, the judiciary, the prosecution in the fight against the mafia, but also to point to all those political factors, wherever they are, who they are and what they are. So it's not a political struggle, it's not a political struggle to criticise Serbia's president this way. No, what they did today is support the mafia in the fight against the president of Serbia. They do not respond to strong Serbia, they do not respond to a strong leader headed by Serbia, which is today Aleksandar Vukic. As long as Serbia is strong as long as Vucic is president of Serbia, they cannot return to power, and their partners from Central Prison, behind bars, cannot go free and that does not match either one or the other. On the way to the mafia, the country of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic is a criminal road. Therefore, any support to the MUP, BIA, the judiciary, the prosecution, the Serbian Government and President Vukic in the fight against the mafia, and we MPs will always be who we are and what we are, to be in the service of our country, to be the national tribunals, to be in the service of our citizens, and to always give full support to President Aleksandr Vukic in the fight against the mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8594	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8595	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, since I already spoke today, and also last night, not to mention too much, let me say a few sentences since I'm a member of the Committee on Culture. Since our chairman of the Committee on Culture has very well explained these proposals, let me say that the Committee on Culture is doing extremely well and that more sessions were held in two years, three, which took place. Let me say that I will support the proposed candidates, because they have extremely good biographies, and I will also support REM's work, because it does its job in accordance with the law, and that is what is very important. However, let me say, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the sake of our pensioners, what happened this month for the first time and after 30 years. For the first time, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, after three decades, pensions are paid without donations from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's why you attack Alexander Vukic from day to day. Let me say that the PIO Fund has paid off its pensions on its own for the current month from the payment of employees' contributions without donations to the state budget and what is very good for our country is that for the first time in history, since when there is a Fund, which is in 1992, it paid its pensions on its own for the current month. It is the success of the Republic of Serbia, which is the success of the modernisation led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is Aleksandar Vukic. That's why he's been attacked these days from all sides. The current month's contribution has been increased by 36%. Let us, however, because most citizens of the Republic of Serbia know this very well: in 1970, four worked and one was retired. Look out, our citizens know that, from the S.I.E.L.D.s back then, we've been spilling funds, and we've been building Gazel out of these contributions, we've been building the Sava Center. Just ten years later, and that's the '80s, we just had a pension inflow of funds. Furthermore, in the 1990s, there are no SIZs, and they grow into the PIO Fund, which is in 1992, which comes from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Follow well-respected citizens, and you will see the success of our country and Alexander Vukic. Of the 58 billion dinars needed for the monthly pension payment, a million and 400,000 pensioners were paid in June without budget donations, except for one part, employees of agriculture who had previously performed their own work. And to cut that part, respected pensioners, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pension grants in 2012 were 48%. In 2016, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS reduced it to 36%. In 2020, we reduced to 20%, and here in June of this year, the PIO Fund is self-financed. It is the biggest success of the 2014 reform, conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and we followed. At that time in this high house, MPs remember very well, said that the exposé of Alexander Vukic at 200 and some sides is the best, most qualitative and most detailed since the appearance of the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in the 19th century until today, because I have examined all the exposés. Isn't that right, respected political opponents, who you sat here and made fun of us here? That's the success. This is an indicator of Serbia's recovery today -- increasing employment rates, reducing the grey economy. These are the results of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the government headed by Ana Brnabic, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic is our President, Aleksandar Vukic. In order not to take too much time, let me say, however, about my political opponents, because I spoke a lot last night and this morning, but to say that one of the representatives of the opposition party, and this is Vuk Jeremic, said that "Alexandar Vukic lost his machineman," finished the quote. Because it fights across Serbia, along and across, for the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. You see what language Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds speaks. When I took my word, since my colleagues talked about him and Gilas today, let me just have a few sentences. This Jeremic is in the authorial text of Paris' Li Monda, 17. Seven. In 2018, believe it or not, it is true, when Aleksandar Vucic had an important meeting with President Makron, accused the state of Serbia and its president, Alexander Vukic, of spreading stability in the Western Balkans and thereby irrefutablely inflicted damage on our country. This is what he and Dragan Gilas and many others I spoke about last night, combined with thieves and con artists from neighbouring countries, with one goal -- to bring down Alexander Vukic, thinking he would come back to power and lead the country to bankruptcy. Well, that's not gonna happen. In the authorial text, "Washington Post" was most brutally insulting Serbia, its president, Aleksandr Vukic, and believed it or not, before his important meeting with Vice President Michael Pens, and thus again stabbed his own country. In 2008, in talks with US congressman Ted Poe, I quote -- that the entry of KIM into the UN is the best Serbia can hope for if it is lucky, the quote is completed. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask Vuk Jeremic publicly - what does the Swiss politician Mrs Michelin, who has been pushing for independent Kosovo in your Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development, do for the past 30 years? Answer Wolf Jeremiah. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Kandic leads this Mrs. Michelin to international groups and represents her as a representative of normal Serbia. That's the Wolf of Jeremic. I was talking about Dragan Gilas last night and this morning, but now only two sentences. Dear Belgraders, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Gilas is not at all interested in the development of Belgrade, and I spoke about it this morning and last night, but that's not just me. That is what many honourable MPs in this high house and many outside this high house have said. You know who else says that? Believe it or not, the US ambassador to Belgrade who said 19.3.2009, quote - Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade's development consists in marketing and that it is not realistic, a quote has been completed. Now do you understand, honourable citizens, why 619 million? In order not to owe much time to other colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while our President Aleksandar Vukic is making superhuman efforts to restore the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia by implementing a policy of peace, security policy, solidarity policy both in the country and in the region, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and in the region, dialogue policy, by finding a lasting, compromise and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province, until then the Dragan Djilas mafia, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic daily fill their private accounts by various destinations, plying to the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksanda Vukic to regain power and bring Serbia to bankruptcy again. I am sending a message to you, respected citizens, respected Belgrade and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic to endure the end in breaking criminals and criminal groups, as this will ensure even faster modernisation and development of our country. In the end, I call on all my former students across the region, all my students, all my students, fellow professors to engage in the vaccination process, because only by vaccination will we be able to ensure the health of all of us and economic progress. Long live Serbia! Long live our president!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8596	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8597	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Here, at the very beginning, let me say that it is very good that all these procedures for the election of REM members are carried out as effectively as possible, in accordance with the law, that the chosen may enter into office as soon as possible, perform in accordance with the law of their functions. Also, I think it is very good for Serbia that there are different members within REM who have a different opinion, which is minority or whatever. We see that in the media in Serbia, such attitudes are gaining greater and greater support. I think it's good for democracy in Serbia, it's good that everyone has an opinion, it's good that we have different media in which we can hear things and it's good that everyone in Serbia can say their views and opinions. I think it is okay for us as elected Members of the People's Parliament to say in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia our opinion without being accused, called, exiled, marked. I, although I'm accentuating it now, am not afraid of it at all, but I have to point out that kind of story that we are daily stamped and in that sense words, as if we have no right to our own attitude. We have the right to our position and no one here is subfling us, telling us what to say, we, by our impulse, by the impulse of the people, by the feeling, by the struggle, by the care of Serbia want to talk about all the topics that are important, and this topic is also important. There's something else I'd like to say here, since we're talking about REM, we're talking about electronic media control, etc. I need to look at one topic that was extremely occupied by the public yesterday and today. First of all, I see that the media, both electronic and written and different portals, and we see their extended hands in terms of different NGOs, launched today a hysterical campaign that is full of vomit and lies against the president of the Republic of Serbia, putting the president of Serbia in context that he has negotiated with the butcher Belivuk, whom he, with his political will, has prosecuted and put behind bars, and no one has ever done so. Now that the thesis in these media is supposed to look like this -- since they built on that butcher Belivuk to make Serbian citizens, that the people of Serbia should trust a butcher and not trust the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, should not trust the president of Serbia. Such a thesis, insidious they are travelling in the public of the Republic of Serbia trying to say in this regard that all the honorable police inspectors, forensics, criminologists, all who have collected detailed evidence of these serious crimes, crimes, that they are not doing their job, that representatives of judicial and prosecutorial institutions are not doing their job, but that only their portals are doing their job and that they also know their extended organisations in the form of NGO quasi, that they are doing their job, that they know the only truth. We need to check that thesis. I am absolutely convinced that no one believes in that thesis, and I am absolutely convinced that they don't believe that kind of story either. I just realize that they're angry and they're nervous, and since people are nervous and nervous to see what's causing their anger and anxiety. I think it is hidden in yesterday and in everything they published about how an extremely strategic, strong and serious firm, which is Telecom Serbia, is rising and better placed on the market in terms of competitions, providing as much quality content and programmes as possible to say, to watch viewers across Serbia. That's what hurts them, that's what their private story is, their private combination, their private companies that you can't count anymore, which they change every day, can't rob the resources of the Republic of Serbia anymore, in this case it's been a long-standing robbery of "Telecom Serbia" by Solak and Gilas. They're both Dragani, one's Dragan Mauricias. Dragan Mauricias subscribed, bargained for seconds, and the other Dragan Solak or Dragan Monopoly went to the canals. Since it is obviously a favorite social game, a monopoly, it is used to, as we have been able to hear, buying its position cheaply, say for tens of thousands of euros in Telecom, finding someone who has been corrupt, how he has done it before and then providing himself with more favourable contracts, and Serbian citizens have to work on making extra profits that will eventually end in Serbia, but in Mauritius or other exotic places. It's that nervousness and that's the key thing why we started this campaign. Let's totally get that kind of story straight. To them, Aleksandar Vukic would be the best leader, not in the region, not in history, but for all time in advance to allow them, as they had previously been in power, to rob Telecom Serbia. It's all about that. They're nervous and angry for that very reason, and that's why all the media they control, all the NGOs, all the individuals they've imposed in terms of quasi-analysts who need to host their electronic media right now, to prove this thesis that can't be proven. It cannot be proved, and their thesis is extremely easy to prove, how they acted, their anxiety and anger for that reason. I would ask these two questions, and primarily to Dragan Monopoly -- why didn't he get angry when he got the right to transfer the football team, Serbia and when we all have to watch games over that channel? He wasn't angry then. Now the problem is that the ball is turning on the island and that football transfer will be via Telecom Serbia. It's not a problem, it's not a price problem, the problem is that they can't make more extra profit and that's what's shown today. Perhaps the best example, since we are talking about electronic media, is not hard not to quote here, advertise, but among other things, go to one of their portals, read the statement "United Media" which the president of the Republic of Serbia calls a liar and says he is a liar. They became active not only in any propaganda and their own interests, they today showed by a statement they released on all their media that they were a political organisation, in the right sense of words. That one legal entity, that one business person declares in any country in the world, and that's what Serbia has allowed, is that Serbia, which they are trying to put on the international agenda as a country in which there is no democracy, and those in its media, in the way they are organised, put this thesis in this way so that they are in front of one legal person, not in front of a political party that is doing business in Serbia and doing what they want, who has illegally placed cable sewerage across Serbia, extracting extra profits from it, offering better and more favourable services to the user in the earlier period of time, and now "Telecom" has arrived, now has a better offer, now people who have come to the head of "Telecom" do not allow the property that is property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, who at the end of that property can fertilise and receive dividend pay, they want to put into their pocket. That dividend was their extra profit and they had that dividend earlier in that period of time by putting it on their own accounts and simply misusing everything in the way we've said it a million times here. The whole point of this story is right there. To no longer owe, they have their own fight, we have our own fight. We will fight for Serbia, we will fight for strong state-owned enterprises, we will fight that as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the region can watch football games, good football and national football and tomorrow that never again those who may have represented us and signed those famous agreements with these two, are not someone who will represent the SNS or represent the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. In that name lived Serbia and lived football in Serbia and watched it on RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8598	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8599	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, a lot has been said about the REM Council and the REM Council candidates. First of all, colleague Sandra Christmas, as chairman of the Committee, told all about two quality candidates and the very way REM works. I would refer to the previous discussion, the discussion of my esteemed colleague Adam, and it scares me, and it seems to me, in addition to today's media, a very ugly statement and address to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic by the United Media Group, that the attacks will be more and more intense on him personally and on the SNS. I think that at last one strong company, a state-owned company, long ago all tried to sell it, was drowned by 800,000, or 800m euros, below any price, a company that has been destroyed for years, as far as media content and that part of its development is concerned. Destroyed in a wonderful way, it means, a beautiful robbery, as it was supposed to be, a long time ago, "Arena sport" passed on to the prime minister, and the Spanish league, and the Italian league, and the German league. In fact, first we lost our right, I mean Telecom, right to the Spanish league, and then it went to the Sports Club, and then next year the Prime Minister also crosses the league, etc. What is out of mind, and beyond all laws, is that national broadcasters are not being broadcast national selections, not only in football, people, but in basketball, 90% of Serbia cannot watch, not only those who do not use cable broadcasters, but also those who do not use cabals, in rural areas. Thanks to Mr. Solak and Gilas in time, through the previous government, and not only to the silence and grumbling of REM, but above all to RATEL. We're all forgetting Rattle. I remember nicely in 2012, when we came here, my discussions with this same RATEL, at the meetings of the Telecommunications Committee, and until the SBB was pushed, then it was called, not United Media Group, to be the first in Serbia to cover 70% of the market. Neither is the "Telecom" that is giant, which today is huge compared to SBB and United Media Group, and if they say in a statement today that they are the top firm covering, I don't know how many countries in the Balkans, etc., etc. Yes, but from here he uses the copper "Telecoma Serbia", cable sewer "Telecoma Serbia", and pays some miserable price of 15 dinars a month. So, most of the city's, I'm talking about city cable lines now, what's owned by cities and municipalities, they don't pay anything, they're wild. I think with this takeover, football is still at stake, at this point in football, by taking over the prime minister's league, one terrible blow has been struck, and let's not forget that last year we had a discussion here that, here, Telecom won't cooperate with them. If there were luck and intelligence from them, but they seem to have no sense, they were lucky, they didn't want to co-operate with Telecom, to buy the right to broadcast "Sport Club", or "N1", or "New S", but they only insisted "Telecom" can only co-operate with us if it takes two, three, four million etc., "New S" and "N1". Gentlemen, I'd like to end up here, leave at least five minutes to some young colleague of mine to score and end up on this subject. In voting day, and that'll be a few minutes, we'll certainly vote for a candidate who gets most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8600	Thank you. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8601	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we had the opportunity to hear from my distinguished colleagues clear examples of how Dragan Gilas imagines freedom of the media and how he actually wants to edit these media, as he did while he was in power. My esteemed colleague Adam Schukalo described him well with an adjective that I liked very much, and that is - Gilas monopoliest. The man managed to reach 619m euros as a monopoliest and through abuse of public position, which was unremembered in the history of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, fortunately, the citizens stopped it, no longer allowed the public position to be misused, and that his hand was lurking in the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were increasingly poor and poorer, and his business was booming. Now we can hear and read to their media that they are a successful corporation that operates in not knowing how many countries, not only in the Balkans, but worldwide. Well, of course, when they made the biggest money at a time when they were monopolies. For them, fair competition is only a game where they are the only players in which there is no competition, in which those who dictate the rules and therefore is absolutely this adjective – Gilas monopolist is adequate. The moment our economy is recovered, when we have companies that are successfully doing business, when they start competing with its companies and they realize the results and when they feel threatened, then they talk about some fair game, about how some rights are being threatened and, of course, that's when they start their offensive, that's when Dragan Gilas's industry is doing a lot of work with a lot of steam and trying to get itself some kind of support to come back into power. Of course, support will not be obtained, nor will it be obtained from citizens because citizens remember the period well while he was in power as a member of the DS. This period of yellow evil that has never been repeated and never returned to this country, which, as we can see, here I will show all the viewers, these are the results of the fight against crime and corruption of the DS, and the yellow machinery that destroyed the Republic of Serbia. No results. They didn't even fight crime. In crime, they found their allies, as they are now found and as they are making every effort to attack President Alexander Vukic, to attack his family, and to connect his children with these criminals and scum and to criticize when the state shows citizens what it is fighting against, what it has done, then they are calling for some kind of ethics, I don't know why such images are being placed, and we clearly heard in their time the images they were taking. What is very interesting is that they are not trying to get support from citizens through some political programmes, ideas that they will realise to show these results among citizens, but of course they are trying to make the money that has been robbed from citizens, which is on accounts abroad, to make this fog industry work even more, so that the capacities are expanded and that, of course, they create a variety of shows, stories and spins directed only against one man, which is Alexander Vukic, trying to discredit all his results and successes of the policy he is leading and his team that has managed to create from Serbia, the country of greys, the countries of katans, the countries from which young people have fled, make a country of hope, a country where young people are returning, where the economy is working again, where we are champions and in the economy, as we continue to be champions and in sports and we look forward to the Olympic games that are ahead of us, because we will enjoy the results of the world that we are just being better. Nicely, counterpart Marijan Risticevic explained this scheme of cross-border television from Luxembourg that maximumly violates all the laws of this country, where they re-emitting these contents, so people in Luxembourg are interested in the lives and biography of our politicians, their opinions and attitudes of Aleksandr Vukic are interested in political opponents, Aleksandr Vukic, and then re-emitting it in Serbia back. When that didn't work anymore, then they decided to run a similar thing with printed media re-emitting from abroad, because they can't create that content here, because the same policy, the same principle they use with other media. But it's not enough either, then they're going to do some kind of investigative journalism that, according to the order of Dragan Gilas, creates various articles that attack Alexander Vukic, who work hard, but who fail to connect him to the crime that attacks his son, attack his family, attack all the people who support Alexander Vukic, but fail to do so. You know how, as we have seen how successful Dragan Gilas is in carrying out a public opinion survey, so he has been nicknamed "Dragan Gilas 110%", so has this investigative journalism according to his orders, and the truth in it has as much as a percentage as in this public opinion survey Dragan Gilas has the support of Serbian citizens, and that's zero. Because Dragan Gilas is not allowed to ask questions when investigating public opinion and asking the opinion of Serbian citizens – how much does Dragan Gilas and his policies support you? Why? Well, no one would say he supports it, because he doesn't have a policy. He only has some Hollywood title for a blogger, we have a plan for a day after and nothing more, then he has his colleagues who try, or want and fantasize to carry out some sort of rematch, to carry out the lustration, and they are the ones over whom the lustration by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will never allow them to return to power and embarrass us, and today is one of those days, 10 years ago when Vuk Jeremic has baffled us with his stupid question and prevented us from fighting for our Kosovo and Metohija, because it was also what his employers said – to prevent you from fighting for the interests of your country, it's not in your interest, if you want the doors of our embassssies to be open. Fortunately, there is no such policy anymore, there is Alexander Vucic, there is his policy and huge support for the normal true Serbia, who is trying to turn Serbia into a country of new opportunities, a country of the future, a country of champions, as I said, not only in sport, but in the country of champions and when it comes to the economy, but also in terms of youth, because that youth has a large number of ideas, has a large number of innovations and has the support of this country to realize them, and not as during Dragan Gilasa's map in one direction abroad, where they will give you their ideas, and then we would have to buy these things here to apply. So I am sure that the member we choose, who will be part of REM, will make a significant contribution to further promotion, when it comes to the working conditions of our media, the electronic media, to allow citizens to hear various opinions, not as Dragan Gilas wishes to hear one message, which is - I hate Vukic, I do not want to choose the means to remove Vukic. And what do we do after that? Well, it's totally irrelevant, Belgrade is my prey, and for the rest of Serbia, we'll make an easy deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8602	I thank Mr. Tomic, too. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask – does the word want someone who has not used his right under Article 96? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8603	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. This time that's left, I'll only use one more time to say a few things about REM. In particular, what I was talking about is that it's very important to hear the voice of every county, every municipality, to hear about all these good things, to hear about some bad things, but we have to fix these things. Besides, all these things my colleagues talked about before me, it all stands. Once again, I will support the candidate's proposal, and I expect it will have a greater opportunity in the coming period to promote more small environments, southeastern Serbia, and Nis as the centre of Southeast Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-22-0.u8604	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the search on the list of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, July 22nd, 2021, with the beginning of 18 hours and 30 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're going to vote. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges I put to the vote Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 167 for – 166 against – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 170, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. I put to the vote the draft agricultural list law 2023 in general. Final vote: total – 171, for – 171. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 2023 Agricultural List Act. Fourth item of the agenda. I remind you that amendments have been made to this bill. I put to the vote the draft law laying down financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets in difficult economic conditions due to the Kovid-19 pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, in principle. Final vote: total – 171, for – 171. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 170, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law laying down financial support to economic operators for the maintenance of liquidity and crafts assets in difficult economic conditions due to the Kovid-19 pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, in general. Final vote: total – 171, for – 171. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Covid-19 Financial Treaty to support the government of Serbia for small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises of medium-market capitalisation between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 170, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the international co-operation of the Republic of Italy on the employment of members of the families of diplomatic, consular and administrative technical staff in general. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 170, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move on to the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, in general. I'm closing the vote. A total of 171, for – 168, was not voted by three. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the motion for a decision by all MPs. Let me congratulate Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, in the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and wish her success in her work. We move on to the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court. Before we move on to a decision on this item of the agenda, I would like to remind you of the provisions of Article 201, paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads - during the search session of the committee of directors and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials, as set out in Article 1, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. On a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates in general by a public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put on the vote a proposal that Zlatoje Ankic, Judge of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, should be elected for the President of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. I'm closing the vote. A total of 171, for – one, did not vote 170. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Zlatoj Ankic, president of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. I am voting on the proposal to elect Gordana Sokic, judge of the basic court in Prokuplje, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as president of the primary court in Prokuplje. I'm closing the vote. A total of 171 did not vote 171. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Gordana Sokic, president of the primary court in Prokuplje. I am voting on the proposal to elect for the President of the General Court in Pančev, Ljiljana Sindzic, judge of the General Court in Pančev, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I'm closing the vote. A total of 171 did not vote 171. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Ljiljana Sindzic, president of the General Court in Panchev. I am voting on the proposal that Biljana Đuric, judge of the General Court in Ruma, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, be elected as head of the General Court in Ruma. I'm closing the vote. A total of 171 did not vote 171. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Biljana Đuricic, president of the basic court in Ruma. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, without disputed candidates, in general. I'm closing the vote. A total of 172 for – 171 did not vote one. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of myself the elected functionholders of the election and wish them success in the work. We move to the ninth item of the agenda – a list of candidates for the board of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 8(2). The Law on Electronic Media, members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, elects most of the votes, out of the total number of MPs. I would also like to remind you that the Law on Electronic Media has found that each authorised candidate for members of the Council is proposing a list of two candidates, and the National Assembly is selecting one member from each list. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the Association of Film, Film and Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council on a proposal from the Association of Philosophers, stage and drama artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia are Bozidar Zečević and Stanko Crnobrnja. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. As a member of the Council, a candidate has been elected who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote – Proposal to choose Bozidar Zečević as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I'm closing the vote. A total of 172 for – 164, did not vote eight. I put to the vote – Proposal to elect Stanko Crnobrnja as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I'm closing the vote. A total of 172, for - four, did not vote 168. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, has chosen Bozidar Zecevic on a proposal from the Association of Film, Scene and Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and wish him success in his work. Ladies and gentlemen, we've done a review of all the agenda points. You have received a call for the next session, and since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly.
