ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting, and please insert cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5968	I thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for organising an inter-party dialogue that started last night, where, together with our Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, you started this story in the best way, because it is the only way to resolve some disagreements about all those electoral actions and all that is untouchable to someone. That's exactly what I mean by those who haven't been to this dialogue. Let it go to them to honor and they can always complain. It is said to us: He who loses can complain at Mile Rowal in the Book. It's some lawyer named Mile Rovalo. But that's what we say in my neighborhood. One of the things about this dialogue is that the United Peasant Party participated there. We have our own suggestions, but we've given it to you, handed it over, and I expect that we'll accept some of it. One thing that matters to me is that it can happen to some other political parties. By the way, we changed the censorship last year where for the transition of censorships and the entry into parliaments, both local and regional, as well as the Serbian Parliament, is 3%. When we were in these elections, as the United Peasant Party, we were both in the elections and in Nis alone. We were in the township of the Red Cross as the United Peasant Party last censorship, we had 3.6%, but we didn't get a councilman, I don't know for what reason. Whether it's the Dont system or not, but the censorship is 3%, and I've been counting on it to be the committee's entry into parliament. It's one of the things that can happen to someone else. This could happen in the elections for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, so we don't get into the same situation. We passed 3.6% and did not get a councilman, and some MPs when they were in the elections in 2006 had 2.99% and they managed to enter parliament thanks to some foreign embassies. I think we should talk about it, and I think it's necessary to know, that it's a 3% censorship whether it's passing and entering parliaments, whether it's in the local, regional or republican parliament, and that if there's any problem in getting it solved in time so we don't get into a situation where it's at someone's expense. It's very important, and I think that this campaign of ours right now, related to the development of democracy, is getting as many people together as possible. There were 26 parties yesterday. This is where we talked about these electoral conditions. This is something really positive, good, and I expect that together with everyone, together with our president of Serbia who is there, who has made some really constructive proposals, that this will be resolved in the best way and that all of this will be to contribute to democracy in our country of Serbia. Another question I would like to ask, specifically, the Ministry of Health, the Institute of Public Health Batut – will they have the opportunity to change the rules, that municipalities that have less than 20,000 residents do not have the right to an internal medicine doctor? That's very important to change, that rule, because a large number of municipalities have fewer than 20,000 inhabitants without an internal medicine doctor, and there are a large number of cardiovascular problems, a large number of people who have diabetes, heart problems, and they don't have the option, they don't have that specialist. These people need to be provided by an internal medicine doctor, paid from the health ministry budget, and thus these people have the same rights as those who have more than 20,000 inhabitants. This criterion, the number of inhabitants does not correspond to the situation on the ground because a large number of municipalities that have an ageing population have demographic threat, we have a mountain-mounted area, the dissociation of municipalities, the depravity of the village. It all requires that there be more doctors, nurses, and especially those specialities that are important to the lives and health of these people. This is my question, and is there any possibility that this rule can be changed for the benefit of these small environments such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, a large number of municipalities of southeastern Serbia and other parts of Serbia such as Raška and other parts of Serbia? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5969	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5970	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I ask the question, I will refer to the findings of my colleague, Milletic, to thank and to congratulate both the president of the state and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of yesterday's dialogue and on a well-organised dialogue. I would say only what I can say, if we had one working and very useful meeting, that it has passed in a democratic spirit and that in this way the ruling coalition knows which way shows the political will to talk, to look at suggestions and suggestions to get to what we all want, which is if there are suggestions and suggestions that go towards improving electoral conditions, that the more citizens participate in the next election process, that as many electoral lists participate in the next election process. As far as the issue is concerned, Serbia has been particularly clear and visible in recent days, exposed to various pressures related to one of our most important national and state issues, which is KIM, from different statements by Albanian officials from Pristina, Vjos Osmani, Albin Kurti, that Kosovo will be part of the great Albania, until yesterday in which they accuse Serbia, I quote -- as a source of destabilisation in the region. This statement was made by Osmania in the context of the appearance of the so-called "Osmania". "non peppers", which offer certain solutions to the Kosovo-Methochial issues. Unfortunately, the attack has always been the best defense, which just confirms attacks on Serbs by those who can't identify themselves as a stabilization factor. Gentlemen from Pristina, who has actually been a factor of instability in our premises for decades, who is trying to counter-constitutionally and counter-constitutionally create a map of another state on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who has been declared terrorists by the international community and who invented Račak and whose was in fact a "yellow house"? Who is trying to capture something Serbian, which is centuries-old history, who burned and destroyed Serbian medieval saints whose vandals? You haven't even bothered with the fact that the iguman is being manipulated by the High Decades, you're accusing of war crimes, which is embarrassing. Just because you seek support from your lobbyists around the world doesn't mean that this world will recognize you, on the contrary, lose your support, because you already recognize the attempt to manipulate and blame history and truth. You mention lighting up the fate of the missing, looking for justice, asking for war damage, and we ask what about over a thousand missing, those who are in a "yellow house," the organ removed? What about thousands of burned Serbian houses, what about 250,000 expelled Serbs and other non-Albanians, from their centuries-old hearths? We weren't conquering other people, we were just defending our own. We were never a destabilising factor, but many fell to Serbia. Today, when it is clear that you do not want us to come up with a common optimal solution, or to participate in the follow-up of dialogue, demeaning the international community, above all the EU, I would say to our people, a coward egg. You're undermining that Serbia, along with Russia, has created a "non pepper" with future solutions. It's the kind of pressure you want to actually realize and implement your solution. However, make sure that the current power headed by President Aleksandar Vukic will not recognise the independence of our self-proclaimed state, and that the president has made it quite clear and quite precisely several times. As regards all of the above, regarding all the charges coming from Pristina, and most strongly concerns the new alleged "non pepper", I would ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given the clear attitude of Pristina that we could hear, that it does not want to take part in the follow-up of the dialogue being conducted in Brussels, under the auspices of the EU, as the main mediator, and given that by refusing Pristina's participation in a skilled way, the European path of Serbia, does the government expect Brussels to take additional steps to ensure Pristina's participation in the follow-up of the dialogue? The president's position on this matter was quite clear during the talks in Brussels, one responsible, serious, state-owned position, which is that we are not looking for anything, we want to participate in dialogue, we want a compromise and a fair solution, but also what we insist on is only the realization of what is signed, and we respect both the Washington and Brussels Agreement. At the very end, since today's big Thursday, since we're going to have a break in work, that's right, Mr. Risticevic, I know what you're trying to say, but since it's Big Thursday we'll have one break in work by Wednesday. I want to congratulate all Orthodox believers on the greatest, most joyful Christian holiday of Easter and remind them that this is a day of joy, a day of forgiveness, a holiday first of all for the family. I believe this holiday will be celebrated in the circle of the family, primarily by handling measures and what recommendations are primarily of the profession and of the Crisis Headquarters. Of course, I wish them above all, to all Serbian citizens, to their families, to wish them good health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5971	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5972	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the day after tomorrow, on May 1st, the ladies and gentlemen will be 26 years old from the famous "Blash" criminal action, in which 283 people of Serbian nationality were brutally killed and missing, 114 civilians, including 57 women and 11 children. The epilogue of this criminal action is the ethnic cleansing of this part of the Western Slavonia, as more than 20,000 Serbs have been expelled from the area they have lived on for centuries for less than two days. At the same time, this action is also the last major aggression of the Republic of Croatia on the then Republika Srpska Krajina, which, to remind the public, was protected by the forces of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the fact that it was a protected zone did not prevent the killing and banishing of a vast number of Serbs. For a reminder and a complete picture, it should be said that before "Bleska" there were three major aggressions of the Republic of Croatia on the then Republic of the Serbian Krajina. An attack on the Miljevaci Plato at Drnis on 21 June 1992, when 40 Serb territorialists and militiamen were killed and massacred, whose bodies were then thrown into the pit, so that only after two months would the exhumation and identification be carried out. The particular bizarreness of this crime is that it also recorded a video tape that could be rented as a horror movie in Western European countries. No one was responsible for these crimes. Then came the so-called so-called. Operation Maslenica or attack on Ravne Kotara in Northern Dalmatia in January 1993. In this aggression, 348 people of Serbian nationality lost their lives as soldiers, which are civilians, of which 35 women and children, as well as three children aged up to 12 years. 165 more Serbs were killed in refugees as a direct consequence of this aggression. A total of over 10,000 Serbs were expelled and burned, robbed and completely destroyed by many villages in the northern Dalmatia area. Specially monstrosity was the massacre on the mountain pass of Mali Alan, which took place on 22 January 1993 in the immediate vicinity of the watchtower in Mount Velebit when members of the Croatian police killed and massacred 22 members of the army, i.e. the Serbian army of Krajina, and one nurse. No one answered for this crime either. The same year, on September 9, 1993, was followed by a massacre in the Medak pocket, in Lica, when the Croatian army carried out a surprise attack on the sprint of the underground villages of Gospic, which were also under international protection, i.e. as a protected zone of UN forces. The epilogue is 88 murdered sprawl soldiers, cops and civilians. Among civilians were 26 people over 60, of which 17 women. Serbian villages of Divoselo, Citluk and Pocitel are completely leveled with land, robbed and destroyed. A famous statement by French General Jean Kott, who was the commander of the UN force, which he stated in his report -- I found no signs of life, no people, no animals in several villages we passed through. The destruction was complete, systematic and deliberate. The only one who was partly responsible for this crime was General Mirko Norac, who was sentenced to, I would say, a symbolic sentence of seven years that was then reduced to six years in prison, and during which he married, had a child and built a house. After this, on 1 May 1995, a surprise attack by Croatian armed forces took place at five o'clock in the morning on Serbian defensive positions with forces more numerous than the population in the area, leading to a huge number of killed and exiled Serbs and a complete exodus of Serbs from the Pakrac, Okucan and other parts of western Slavonia. UNPROFOR's command has retreated to its bases, from which they have been watching Serb deaths, even though they were obliged to protect them. Long refugee columns towards Republika Srpska, which included thousands and thousands of Serb civilians, were shot with both aircraft bombs and tank missiles. About a thousand and a half members of the Serbian army of Krajina were captured, most of them on fraud, with the help of UNPROFOR's protective forces and taken to camps in Bjelovar, Varazdin, Slavonski Požega, Novi Gradiška and Virovitica. After the capture of Serb soldiers, Croatian courts condemned them, in fact, a number of these soldiers, for so-called. war crimes and dozens of prisoners have passed several years of torture in the infamous Lora camp in Split. This crime was directly designed and planned by Franjo Tudjman, then Croatian President Gojko Sušak, then Defence Minister Janko Bobetko, Chief of Staff, Generals Petar Stipetić, Mladen Markac and other generals. No one was responsible for this crime either, as Generals Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac were cleared of all charges by the UN tribunal's second-degree verdict on 16 November 2012. More than 120,000 Serbs lived in the period in question in western Slavonia, and today there are barely 17,000. Croatia has never been sanctioned for attacking the UN-protected area, nor has anyone been punished for bombing Serbian civilians in western Slavonia. I ask the foreign ministry question – are all available measures taken during bilateral meetings with Croatian officials, and in order to find and process all those responsible for war crimes? Because if Croatia pleads to be a democratic country, it must face its past and process all those responsible for war crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5973	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward to ask questions, ask for information? (No) Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're gonna keep working. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's Parliament of the Government of the Inhabitant. You were presented the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Committee's work department has found that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered any written objection to this report, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 13 and 14 April 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: total – 136, for – 125, did not vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure need the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to supplement the agenda and a proposal to bring the debate together. National MP Miodrag Linta, on the basis of Article 92, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which was submitted on 23 March. Does MP Miodrag Lint want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5974	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third time I've asked for the agenda of the session to be completed with my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. With this bill of law, I'm looking for five key things. First, I ask that the Serbian government take responsibility and continue a regional housing programme aimed at finally resolving the residential issue of all the exiled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH as a key issue of integration. I remind you that there are still more than 12,000 exile families in Serbia today who have not yet resolved their housing issue, which for more than 25 years, and some of these families and 30 years, are paying rent as tens of thousands of euros to pay the rent in the previous period. A few days ago, a list was published in the city of Belgrade of 383 families who will receive apartments in Ovca and Novi Belgrade. A large number of exile families, unfortunately, remained below the line. According to the Belgrade City Property and Legal Affairs Secretariat, 2,000 apartments are missing today in Belgrade for exile families who have applied for previous competitions to resolve their housing issue. There are estimated to be at least 500 other exile families who have not applied and who expect another public call to be issued to resolve the housing issue. It is also estimated that the town of Novi Sad lacks at least 1,000 apartments to address the housing issue of exile families. In total, there are about 7,000 apartments missing in Serbia, about 3,000 packages of building materials for families to finish their houses, about 2,000 rural properties and at least a thousand house installations. Secondly, I ask that this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Refugees Act allow over a thousand exiled families who have been expelled from the Croatian and Federation of BiH to apply for a settlement of the housing issue, and the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration makes it impossible for them to do so because they did not formally and legally apply in 1996 for the refugee list. Many have not done so for various reasons and should not be discriminated against, they should be allowed to resolve the issue on equal terms. Third, there are several categories of exile families whose Commissioner for Refugees and Migration has not allowed the purchase of apartments. It is the 530 family "SIR program" in seven local self-governments that have waited 13 years for them to finally resolve their housing issue, buy apartments under favourable conditions and finally be on their own. We have 49 refugee families who use the housing companies to rent DIPOS, who also paid tens of thousands of marks and euros for rent and expect them to be allowed to buy those apartments. Finally, we have hundreds of exile families who got apartments through the so-called. social housing program and through the so-called social housing programme in protected conditions. And they expect to be given the right to buy apartments, to finally be owners and to solve the key issue of integration. Fourthly, I ask that all exile families who have apartments be allowed to reduce their purchase contracts from 50 to 75%, for two reasons. The first reason is that there are EU donations, various governments, more international organisations, and it is unacceptable for these people to charge a 50% ransom price when it comes to a majority international donation, and the second is the fact that in most cases these apartments are bad, unquality, sneezing roofs, shooting walls, poor electrical installations, the last quality of sanitary, etc. (President: Thank you, Mr. Linta. Let me finish, please. Fifth, I ask that the part of the families that signed the apartment purchase contracts by 50% reduction to allow them also an annex contract discount of 85%. In the past 20 days, I have heard from a large number of exiled Serb families who are bitter and dissatisfied, who expect the government to continue the regional assembly programme, to adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act and finally resolve the key issue of integration. In the end, I urge my colleagues and colleagues to accept my proposal to amend and supplement the Refugees Act and complete the agenda with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5975	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am concluding the vote: of a total of 140, for – 11, did not vote 129. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 93(2) of Article 157(1), Articles 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: Joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation, Proposal for a Law on cases of precious metals, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports; Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Quebec, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Change and Completion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on Scientific and Technological Co-operation, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection; Common Single Searching: Proposal for a Decision of Judges on the First Decision on the Choice of Judges on the First Instance in the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of First Instance, on the Court of First Instance, on the Court of First Instance, on the Court of First Instance, on the Court, on the Court of the Court, on the Court, on the Court of 9th, on the Court, on the Court of the Court, on the Court of the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court of the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court of Justice, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court of Justice, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the Court, on the second. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: of a total of 141 for – 133, it did not vote eight. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to supplement the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote, of a total of 141 for – 134, did not vote seven. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the tenth session of the First Regular Session, in 2021, in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation, Proposal for a Law on cases of precious metals, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sport, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Quebec, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Change and Completion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection, Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Judges First Choice of the Judges, Proposal for the Choice of the Choice of Judges. I shall inform, pursuant to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure have been called upon to attend the meetings of Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Industry, Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Milan Savić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Darko Udovic, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sport, Vukica Kilibarda, Minister of Culture and Information, Radovan Jokić and Daniela Vanusic, Assistant Minister of Culture and Information, Aleksandar Starcevic, Deputy Minister of Industry, Milija Lazarevic, Minister of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Miodrag Dugandzija, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Economy, Tanja Petrovic, Dragana Zečević and Željko Lalić, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Sport, Miodrag Dugandžija, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of the Ministry of Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Education. I welcome the representatives of the government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not done so by now, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament in accordance with the provisions of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(2), I open my Rules of Procedure a common principle search on: the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation, the Proposal for a Law on cases of precious metals, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. I'm asking if the proposing's representatives want a word. The word is held by Deputy Prime Minister of Culture and Information Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5976	Thank you. I am pleased to see the honourable MPs again in a short time, to discuss certain legal solutions in the area of culture which is part of the portfolio that I am covering as the competent minister of culture and information. I'd rather not have a joint discussion about such important, changes and additions to the Culture Act, but that's how most of you here in parliament decided, and I've tried to find a point that connects culture and information with economic and sport, so it can be taken under the word, the courage to lead these resolutions under the difficult circumstances of the crown. I've tried to understand a united debate about all these laws. Why am I protesting in some way? Because the Law on Culture is a system law for the field of culture and all regulations that cover any segment of culture must be consistent with the norms of this basic, basic law. Any changes and additions to whatever may seem to you and may have changed and complemented something that is minor actually has a direct impact on the functioning of our culture system, which speaks of the great importance of these changes today and the additions that you will discuss. Of course, because of the importance of these changes ahead of you, a public debate took place from February 1st to February 20th of this year in as many as five cities. These were five round tables except for the usual Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade, we decided to keep them both in Chačka and in Subotica. On the draft laws of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, there were plenty of suggestions, suggestions, discussions, which cheers me, means that it is a matter of interest and professional associations and all the people who touch this law. We've had some debates, but we've also made it possible for all the interested to engage in this public debate and to deliver their objections and suggestions to us. Part of the remarks that were the essence of the debate were accepted. First, to better regulate the procedure and selection of members of the National Council for Culture, to ensure first and foremost the presence of national minorities in this body in a certain way, and I thank the MPs Elvira Kovaca, who was active in preparing amendments that have now become an integral part of the bill proposal, because the government adopted them, but also the national councils that participated in the oral debate in Subotica and, of course, Minister Gordana Komic, who intervened in this process. The second amendment is the need to specify the simple relationship between the founders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the boards of directors who are also elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in relation to the opening of public competitions for the selection of directors of public institutions. I have immediately seen these few months, five months as far as I am at the head of this ministry, as far as there is almost no communication between the founders, the republican institutions of culture and the boards themselves, not everyone, but there have been drastic cases in these five months. What is very important is that we also adopted the remarks of certain professional associations, independent artists and these changes and additions, the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance is introduced. There are still some minor changes where I wouldn't spend your precious time, because I'm convinced you've all read the bill of amendments and additions to the law. We also had two days of discussion in the Committee on Culture and Information. What we were unable to accept was certainly a proposal to amend members of laws that were not subject to amendments and additions, and that may not have been correctly understood by the public debate participants. When you open a public debate on changes and complements, it applies only to those members you propose to change. I couldn't accept a proposal not to extend the deadline of 30 days from the day of adoption of the budget to prepare the call for public competitions. I think that those who made the remarks were burdened by the time the budget was adopted on December 30th and 31st, and now the budget, as far as I know, was adopted at the end of November or early December, so they couldn't calculate that time that this new proposal would certainly be called at the end of January for competitions, not deep in the spring, as it happened this year. We could not find a common language to adopt the strategy further in the National Assembly if it took up the National Security Strategy was the only strategy adopted in the Assembly. Then they would have to do it by all the other ministries, not by the Ministry of Culture and Information, by one regulation, and by all the other resars to work under the other. There was also a debate on why, as they said, institutions along with the republican cultural institutions that have fewer employees must have five board members as well as others, and with this proposal on amendments and amendments to the laws, I tried to make it even, because now we have three, up to an infinite number of board members, and no one knows why. Some institutions have three, some five, some seven, some 11. Because what that means is a small number of employees. I guess the importance of the institutions of republican culture is not measured by that, by the number of performers of certain jobs we have. Public competitions for funding or co-financing of cultural programmes and projects in culture are an extremely important instrument for cultural policymaking. You know that the Ministry of Culture and Information can only in this way encourage and finance certain cultural programs and projects. I think it is extremely important that this deadline be extended to prepare from the adoption of the budget to 60 days, that simply participants have enough time after the adoption of the budget to prepare all the necessary documentation, because now the time has been spent on consultations with the participants of the competition and we have and now competitions in April of the month, which are not yet completed. The deadline for their registration shall be extended to 60 days. It used to be 30, but no one ever followed that deadline. I'm saying whenever someone wants to change something, to be serious, to adapt to what's really happening in practice, then you always have on the other side of those opponents who don't know why they're up against you, but they don't mind when you want to change something. The National Council for Culture, this is a special topic introduced under the 2009 Culture Act, and why do we not have it? I tried to analyze what was going on, a huge number of proposings, who couldn't possibly agree, who didn't respect those standards, which were assigned, which is to propose more candidates, but simply because they didn't respect the procedure, they sent to parliament one candidate, the Ministry of Culture and Information, and so on, and then you were blackmailed to accept, and then if you refuse, they say you don't respect democratic procedures. I think it's much better defined here, we get one important body for a country like the National Council for Culture and that it's also effective, and that these members are active, because we've had a national council on culture, where over time half of the members stopped responding, and phone calls, let alone actively participate in one body they've been elected, so let no one be offended when I say that we now have relevant promoters, who are obliged to propose three or four members, to send me a list later here in parliament and allow me to make a statement, to not accept someone and to return to the procedure, the Ministry of Culture and Information. I say the strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, you understand, is uniform with other strategies that are adopted at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a strategy and we will be able to apply it by this change. The cultural institutions are now enrolling in the registers of economic courts, the intervention is that they are doing so from now on, the Agency for Business Registers, public competitions and the selection of directors, and I say that I am sorry that we do not have a session dedicated only to issues of these changes and additions, because I could tell you in five months, what problems I've been facing, and that it has shown this way of choice, certain weaknesses. I was in a position to see in a daily newspaper an ad, that someone had called a competition for the position of director of one of the republican institutions of culture. When I asked around, it turned out that even the entire board of directors wasn't familiar with these principles, and we introduced the previous consent of the founders, so that the founder would even know that some changes were being made at the head of the cultural institution. The boards of directors will be even and every institution of culture will have the opportunity to have five board members, three board members, and, of course, make sure that 30% in that number is less than the gender represented, you will soon have a birth equality law in front of you and will be increased to 40%, but 30.40% in that number, 5 is about the same, but we will adapt to the law that will just be passed and we will amend this provision. What is important, it is certainly, and it is an important change that local self-government will have to pay contributions to health and social security to independent artists. Now we have a strange provision of the law, that as I can and then most local self-government has ended up not paying and not having this number of artists so large, according to these local self-governments, that someone would think that now, God knows how to burden their budget, and then we had a fictitious application, the larger cities of Novi Sad and Belgrade, so that, since Novi Sad and Belgrade, they would pay these contributions, perhaps Nis, so that contributions would be paid to those who do not create and live in those local self-governments, this solves the issue of social status from the health care of independent artists. I guess we'll have a special session where, I don't know what day, the chairman will tell us when we'll discuss the amendments. Two amendments to the Government, or the Ministry, they become an integral part of the bill's proposal, but by procedure we will discuss it, but these are subsequent consultations and it was also part of public debates and grudges, why the government should choose a national council for culture, not the Assembly, because I really have no problem, about candidates for members of the National Council here in parliament, and that is, of course, accepted. I think it also strengthens the capacities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Ministry of Culture and Information will not reduce our importance and our work. In the last term, the minister passed the government and immediately sent a proposal from those members. I also know that there have been problems, that six members of nineteen have been elected, that National Council has never been established. I say, I find it interesting whenever a minister from a culture of information wants to change something or something to establish or if there is a National Council for Culture in the law, then we have to have it, and then those who don't mind having the National Council for Culture, which wasn't functional and what hasn't worked for four, five, six years, are bothered by the need to finally change something and Serbia gets the National Council for Culture. I say, we talked, and I already mentioned that with the national councils we discussed the need, including the provisions of Article 17. The law on national councils, national minorities to include national minorities in the work of management committees, in the local environments of the AP Vojvodina, of course in the number of at least one member, and the possibility of having more if national councils have more in a particular local community will be taken into account by the coordination body, but these are two guaranteed seats in the National Council for Culture of the Republic of Serbia. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5977	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. To confirm that we are expected to have a debate in detail in the days immediately after the holiday, so we will still talk about these important topics. The word is made by Minister Angelka Atanaskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5978	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government is proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation for the following reasons. The area of accreditation is governed by the Law on Accreditation and the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" number 73/10 in the subsequent test of the law, as well as by the sublegal acts adopted under this law. In addition to the need for further harmonisation with Regulation 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council, following a period of application of this 10-year law, the practice has shown that it is necessary to amend existing legal solutions in order to make operations in the field of accreditation more efficient. For one thing, in order to further improve the area of accreditation in the Republic of Serbia and to align with the mentioned European regulatory changes and additions to the Accreditation Act, the most precisely defined specific concepts have been defined. Also, in order to further comply with the said European Regulation, the conditions that the accreditation body of Serbia, in the follow-up to ATS, as a national accreditation body, must meet are detailed. In preparing changes and additions, the promoter also had in mind and strengthened the transparency of the work of the ATS, especially in a visual survey conducted by the Ministry of Economy in co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce among accredited bodies for the assessment of compliance. The survey aimed at collecting data on the efficiency of the functioning of the accreditation system in the Republic of Serbia. The survey's analysis showed, in addition to the need for more transparent work by the National Accreditation Body, that it is in the interest of the economy and legal certainty to define the deadlines for the completion of the accreditation process, which was defined by the motion to amend and supplement the applicable law. Also, in order to strengthen transparency, the promoter envisaged the keeping of a public register of assessors and experts involved in the accreditation process. In view of the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, a position taken with a provision of the cost of accreditation is defined through a law governing the Republic's administrative fees. One of the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Accreditation Act is contained in the need to strengthen the supervision of the Ministry of Accreditation of the Ministry of Economy's tasks, meaning an institution in which, in accordance with Article 5 of the applicable Accreditation Act, the conduct of accreditation tasks is entrusted, therefore, to the ATS, and all to the proper functioning of the accreditation system and to take appropriate measures where necessary. In order to monitor the work of ATS more effectively, the need to define more precisely the provisions concerning the appointment of members and president of the ATS body. In practice, the current composition of the Board of Appeals of the ATS has proved inadequate. In this respect, in order to ensure impartiality and to strengthen the effectiveness of the Commission's work on complaints, the Commission has shown the need to prescribe its new composition and decision-making method, and to further comply with Regulation 765/2008 of the change involved in the way the Board of Appeals works. Furthermore, for the purpose of the amendments, there is a need to strengthen the co-operation of all resolution authorities, i.e. organisations responsible for the preparation, i.e. the adoption of technical regulations with ATS, in terms of the exchange of necessary information and the participation of their representatives as observers in the evaluation part of the accreditation process in the case of accreditation for the purpose of designation or authorisation. The proposed solutions will affect the bodies to assess compliance, whose competence is determined by the ATS which, in the interest of greater efficiency and legal certainty, are achieved through the definition of the deadline for the completion of the accreditation process and the deadline for the renewal of accreditation, thus achieving a faster and more certain completion of the accreditation process. The precise definition of the duration of the accreditation process prevents the loss of potential profit in business. In this way, positiveness also affects their market competitiveness. Namely, I will bear in mind that, in accordance with Article 4 of the applicable law, accreditation is voluntary. A number of bodies to assess compliance in the Republic of Serbia operate with accreditation certificates issued by foreign national accreditation bodies. The proposal believes that new legal solutions will encourage the concerned economic operators to address the ATS in order to obtain appropriate accreditation certificates issued by the national bodies for the accreditation of the Republic of Serbia. The accreditation body of Serbia, since greater transparency of the work of the institution is made possible, is then strengthened by the efficiency of the work of its bodies, primarily in the light of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Board of Appeal, and then affects the authorities, or organisations responsible for preparing and adopting technical regulations. Since the draft law imposes an obligation on these authorities, namely the ATS within six months of the date of entry into force of the law to conclude a co-operation protocol which will allow for the availability and exchange of information concerning accreditation procedures for the purposes of designation, authorisation and other issues related to the implementation of supervision and application of technical regulations. It also affects users of accredited bodies to assess compliance which in their business activities will be able to with greater certainty to... in the selection of appropriate accredited bodies for the assessment of compliance, through the introduction of greater legal certainty through the definition of time-limits for the implementation and renewal of the body accreditation process for the assessment of compliance. Finally, we point out that applying the proposed solutions will not cause an increase in costs for economic operators and other legal persons applying for accreditation. It is also noted that in order to create conditions for meeting the requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, when making amendments to and supplementing this law, all requirements of the above-mentioned Regulation 765/2008 are respected, which prescribes requests for accreditation, as well as requests for a relevant international standard relating to the assessment of compliance, i.e. requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting bodies for conformity assessment. Since the solutions proposed by this law refer to a matter which could not be regulated by another legal act, and that amendments and additions are made in line with the development of accreditation in Europe, the recommendations and procedures of international accreditation organisations, as well as the needs of the Republic of Serbia's economy, are proposed to adopt this law. Also, we have another change. The government is proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass a law on items of precious metal, which would in a comprehensive way regulate the performance of production, transport and control in the field of precious metals for the following reasons, the most important thing being that there is compliance with the Law on Inspection and the General Administrative Procedure Act. In fact, the applicable law prescribes the supervision of items of precious metals by the Directorate for Measures and precious metals over the face authorized to exercise supervision. The law also provides for conditions that persons authorised to exercise supervision must meet, as well as the form and content of official legislation. With regard to the conditions to be met by an inspector who controls items of precious metals, as well as with regard to the possession of official legislation, the law governing inspection supervision shall be referred to. The obligation set out in the Action Plan for the implementation of recommendations from the risk assessment for money laundering and the assessment of the risk of terrorist financing relating to the need to specify and distinguish competences in the part of the control of production, transport, purchase and record of precious metal items shall be implemented. Provisions related to the purchase of valuable metal items have been developed. In this connection, the concept of purchaser as a business entity registered in the Republic of Serbia was introduced in accordance with the law governing the registration of economic operators and registered in the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals as a purchaser of valuable metal items. The purchase of used items or parts of precious metals can only be made by a redeemer at a marked ransom spot that when buying out a ransom note. The buyer is obliged to keep records of the purchase of the items and the manufacturers will have to purchase the items for the purpose of providing raw materials for their work, but subject to registration in the Directorate as purchasers. Provisions relating to surveillance in the area of items of precious metal shall be specified. The Directorate for Measurements and Precious Metals retains the authority to exercise control over items of precious metals and producers of these items, and market inspectors carry out and monitor the traffic of objects and purchasers of objects in accordance with this law, as well as regulations governing the registration of traffic in trade and market surveillance. This law does not cover investment gold defined in terms of value added tax, VAT, as well as investment silver, platinum and paladium, since it is a specific type of savings, i.e. money. The possibility of authorising the body to examine and stamp cases has been abolished, since 2011, when that possibility was introduced, there have been no business operators interested in performing these tasks. The notification of the valid sign of the importer and the representative who has been in force for 10 years has been suspended, thus facilitating the business of these operators. The paper is a provision on an extraordinary study of the finesse of precious metal, which allows each interested person to examine the subject in the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals in case of doubt about the degree of fineness of the case. The proposed solutions will affect manufacturers, importers or representatives of the producers of precious metals which signify the subject by the manufacturer, importer or agent which is determined by the decision of the Directorate and which is valid for 10 years, which will no longer be obliged to apply to the Directorate for renewal of the decision on the sign, producer, importer or representative by abolishing the period of validity of the solution. The Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, as well as the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, is a market inspection sector, which, as authorities of the State Administration, conducts inspection supervision in areas of precious metals, by more precise formulation of the provisions relating to the demarcation of jurisdiction in the area of inspection supervision, contributes to more efficient organisation and performance of these operations. It also affects the new economic operators of purchasers of valuable metals used to keep records, which will allow for better quality control of their work, on interested persons, above all, consumers, or purchasers of valuable metal items, which will allow for an extraordinary examination of the finesse of items of precious metal, which represents additional protection in the purchase of these items. Therefore, the adoption of this law will ensure that the Republic of Serbia guarantees high quality items of precious metal on its market, as well as a fair competition in order to protect the interests of both consumers and producers, importers, or representatives of precious metal objects. These are our motions to amend the law. We are at your disposal for all questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5979	I thank Minister Atanaskovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3, today the National Assembly has been working for more than 16.00 hours to hold a session of the government's parliamentary issues. I'd also like to inform you that we've received a letter from RTS. We won't be in direct transmission from 13.50 to around 15.30 hours for a sports event. Also, I would like to inform you that we will have a regular break from 15.00 hours, as you expect. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5980	Thank you. Dear fellow citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to begin today with the thoughts of our famous writer Pavic, who wrote in one of his books that if you want to experience the book in the right way, you must read it twice – the first time you are younger than her heroes, and the second time after many years, when these same heroes become much younger than you and thus you will see the character and work of these heroes from both corners. Today, when I represent changes and additions to the Doping Prevention Act in front of you, MPs, I can identify myself with those same ones, because I have had the opportunity to experience the full application of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, to look at all the advantages and all the disadvantages and on my personal skin to look at the overall procedure of taking samples, but what is most important, I think that I have always sent a strong message, that doping is absolutely illegal in the system of sports, that zero tolerance of doping in sport is something that should not only make us athletes, but all of us society, and that we all have to send a very strong message about the harmfulness of taking any kind of substances or any extensive circumstances to achieve the ultimate results. The 2014 law has fully met its expectations, and with pride today we can point out that it is fully accepted by the entire system of sports of all the players of the Alliance of athletes, all those who make success every day of our sport system and that we can say that it has been fully implemented. Today when we talk about changes and additions, we don't do it because it's necessary. On the one hand, it is, because we want to comply with international sport rules, but we want to improve national legislation and we want to make this law even better, even more quality and messages that we want to send through its operation, we want to influence as many citizens as possible, primarily children in the system of sports. Our actions through the implementation of the current law were mostly about prevention, not repression. We wanted to educate as many athletes through our activities about the harmfulness of doping in sport as possible. We wanted to educate as many athletes through our activities about the harmfulness of doping in sport as possible. We wanted through various kinds of education and workshops to educate as many professional athletes, amateurs, children, high school children, founders of how unhealthy doping is and how unhealthy it is to the health of all of us and how harmful and coban it can be for the health of athletes and all in the system of sports. Today we can proudly say that more than 40,000 athletes, high school students, founders have passed all kinds of education, are now certified and have better and greater knowledge when it comes to preventing such a negative phenomenon in sport as doping in sport. We are proud of the program of peer education and we believe that just the peers can convey the best knowledge and can deliver these powerful messages in a unique, unique way. I am proud to point out that if you vote this bill in the voting day, we will be among the first countries in the world to harmonise national regulations and thus be leaders in the world, if we are today leaders in sports results. I think it is very important to monitor international legal fluids and thus send a clear message that we want to perfect ourselves, that we want to be better from day to day and that we want to compete with everyone, and that we have shown in all our social aspects that today we can be proud not only of sports results, but in all other aspects, where Serbia is also a leader in the world, and in particular you are a leader in the region. One of the basic principles of amending this law is compliance with the World Anti-doping Code. By accepting all changes to the World Anti-doping Code that came into force on 1.1 this year, we send a strong message, but we allow our athletes to compete in international competitions, that we can organise an international competition as a state and that our organisations can be members of international sports organisations. The penalty for not harmonising is fatal to our system of sports, and that is why we want to be among the first countries, and that is why we want to send our system of sports to follow their results and their efforts. One of the examples that will be close to you is that one strong and large country, as Russia has suffered significant sanctions for not respecting the World Anti-doping Code and today corrects all those discrepancies with the desire for athletes to have an equal attitude to international sports competitions. This tells you enough how serious the fight against doping is at international level and how much it looks at and looks at the alignment of all national acts and regulations with international acts and regulations. Another important change is compliance with national regulations. First of all, I'm referring to the Act of Inspective Control, as well as the Law of Sports. After a certain period of time, it is necessary to comply with national rules, so that one part of the amendments to the law that we are discussing today are also relevant. Furthermore, new anti-doping rules are being introduced. The current law found that there are 10 infringements of the anti-doping rules. These changes and additions also determine the 11th violation of the doping rules. It refers primarily to preventing any kind of intimidation of athletes or other person in the system of sports who wants to report doping. We feel it is important to introduce this rule in order to enable transparency and to encourage all those participants in the system of sports who may be witnesses of doping and all negative phenomena related to the prevention of doping and to encourage them to share these knowledge with the competent institutions. Furthermore, we want to introduce greater uncertainty regarding the conduct of doping controls in national competitions. To be honest enough, the law so far requires that doping control be conducted in semifinal and final games. In this way, the athlete knew in advance that these games would certainly have doping control. The changes we want to prescribe that doping control can be carried out in national competitions at any time possible. We want to increase uncertainty, but we want to send a message to the athletes that, no matter what level the competition plays at some point, what part of the year, and how we want to follow its health status, and how we want to follow whether in an unfair way he tried to get a result and thus want to tighten the criteria, but also to increase the standard when it comes to the health of athletes, but also the fairness and equality in the system of sports. A very important change is the introduction of two new members into the Antidoping Management Committee. We think that because of the increased results achieved by our paralympics on the national and international stage, but primarily because of a large number of athletes with disabilities in the system of sports, we want to bring in the newspaper and that the Anti-doping Agency's Management Board has its representatives. In this way we want to encourage the Paralympics, we want to show how equal they are, how equal they are, and today as a state we can rise to the greater success of our paralympics and athletes with disabilities. I'll give you a banana example. In 2012, at the Paralympic Games in London, we won five medals, at the previous in Rio de Janeiro we won nine medals. We've doubled the number, and we want to move on. We sincerely hope that at these Paralympic Games in Tokyo in a few months our paralympics will achieve even better and greater record results. We want to increase the independence of the second-degree body in the decision-making of the Anti-doping Agency, and it is about the Anti-doping Committee. So far, members of the Antidoping Committee have been elected by the Antidoping Agency Management Board. With the current changes, we propose that these members be selected by three of our biggest roof organisations – the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia and the Paralympic Committee of Serbia. In this way we want to increase independence, we want to give greater authority, but we also want to increase the responsibility of people who participate in the Antidoping Committee. Dear People's MPs, I think it's extremely important that we continue our strong fight against doping and against all the wicked in the system of sports. A Serbian sport that unanimously adopted the previous law. A very extensive and broad public debate has been conducted where I can fully tell you that all sports organisations, all roof organisations, the entire system of sports have accepted this solution for further promotion, a systematic improvement in the fight against doping. I think we're sending a very strong message today from a ferple that must make up a whole system, but also a whole society. We send a message of tolerance, but we also send a message to worry about the health of athletes, about equality, about justice, and that only in an honorable way can we get to the top results. In the voting day, I urge you to vote this law and take part together in the fight against doping, but also in the better results of our athletes who are on the historical level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5981	I thank the minister. We're moving on to the boards of directors. Vice-President of the National Assembly, President of the Committee on European Integration, Mrs Elvira Kovac, appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5982	Thank you, Your Honor. Vice-President of the Government, members of the Government with co-workers, we do have several points on the agenda, so that in this brief presentation I will deal with now only with amendments and additions to the Law on Accreditation and from a corner of coherence, as chairman of the Committee on European Integration, and later I will speak, as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. Therefore, accreditation, as is known, was not fully in line with European legislation, and precisely in the area of accreditation, which prescribes requests for accreditation and market surveillance in relation to trade in products that were in force at the time of the adoption of the current law, and in force is now and this additional harmonisation is necessary. In addition to this additional harmonisation with the European regulation, after a period of application of this law, and we know that it has been for eight years now, the practice has shown that it is simply necessary to amend this law and to supplement existing legal solutions in order to be more efficient in the field of accreditation. In order to further improve the area of accreditation in our country, in the Republic of Serbia, harmonisation with European regulatory changes and additions to the Law on Accreditation, as we have heard, it is more precise to define certain concepts that sublime in themselves the tasks these bodies perform and in order to further comply with an extremely significant regulation, I am pleased that the Minister has stated, 765 since 2008, and the conditions that the National Accreditation Body must meet. You, Madam Minister, or Government and all your associates as a proposing, on the basis of an assessment of the Committee on European Integration, have, on the one hand, respected the requirements of this Regulation 765/2008, which sets out the conditions for accreditation, as well as the requirements of the relevant international standard which you have also mentioned concerning the assessment of compliance, i.e. requirements for accreditation bodies. One of the reasons, as we know, for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws is contained in the need to strengthen the supervision of your ministry, the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for the tasks of accreditation over the national accreditation body, and all in order to function properly in the accreditation system, to take appropriate measures where necessary. On the other hand, we believe that the reason for the changes lies in the need to strengthen the co-operation of certain bodies and organisations of all relevant competent authorities for the preparation, i.e. the adoption of technical regulations in terms of the exchange of necessary information, the participation of their representatives. To point out, what is important with the field of European integration, our Committee on European Integration, that the bill is fully in line with, how with the SAA, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we need to stress that the transitional agreement, meaning that there is no other, does not contain provisions on accreditation. The draft law is also in line with the provisions of EU primary law and is in line with the principles that arise from these provisions. The relevant EU regulation, as we have heard, which has agreed on the draft law, lays down this Regulation 765 of 2008, the European Parliament and the EU Council Regulation. It was adopted on 9 July 2008 and provides for some details, requests for accreditation, market surveillance in relation to trade in products. What we haven't talked about, I think it's important to point out from the perspective of European integration, at least I haven't heard, is that the bill was the subject of consultation. So there was the "Twining Project", and the consultations were extremely active with the European Commission, and certain adjustments were made. Based on their comments and opinions, the maximum deadline for the completion of the accreditation process has been extended, the deadline for the renewal of accreditation. A member relating to cross-border accreditation has been amended, left out to refer clients to a foreign accreditation body in the event of a cross-border accreditation deadline and at the request of the European Commission, which is fulfilled. The requirements to be met by the National Accreditation Authority have been developed in accordance with this Regulation. The composition of the Board of Appeal has been updated. In line with the European Commission's remarks, provisions on cross-border accreditation are also in line. Therefore, you certainly have a positive light from the Committee on European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5983	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. The President of the Committee on Culture and Information, Member of Sandra Christmas, comes forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5984	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. We certainly had the opportunity to hear one address from all three ministers and a good explanation for all three laws. I would say a few words on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Information, as regards the Law on Culture, given that we have had the opportunity both from the Ministry itself and from the coming of the Minister of Culture and Information, Ms Maja Gojkovic, at the head of this institution to see some serious legal solutions and to understand one intention of this ministry and the Minister himself to modernize the legal regulations and to establish a more effective procedure in the context of the topic of culture and information, which is certainly something to praise, given that we are the previous law that was passed in 2009, whether or not, with various shortcomings all this time served as a legal framework. I think the time has come to discuss a regulation that can be a domain of culture and information, in this case culture, leads to some new legal solutions that will allow for more effective application in practice. Given that we have had the opportunity to hear that, as the minister herself said, and the public debate on this subject, which is certainly good, an example of good practice within each amending and supplementing the law, I will remind you once again that the public debates were held at five round tables from February 1st to February 20th 2021 and in different cities, so we covered a wide range of opinions. Of course, different cultural world factors were present at all these discussions that took place in Chačka, Subotica, Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade. You will see, therefore, that this debate on cultural topics has been decentralised, which is commendable. As for the law itself, and what the Committee had the opportunity to see in principle, and later we discussed in detail, but we will discuss this next week, I would like to point out several issues concerning culture and improving the efficiency of the work of the topics themselves. It was, first of all, the National Council that you were talking about and which was also a topic in the media these few days, last week since we announced an amendment to the law. Certainly, it is extremely important that the National Council for Culture be effective, that the National Council for Culture overcome that role it had in the previous period, which was only declarative because we saw that it was a body and too massive and that, unfortunately, it was not interested in all the issues concerning the domains of culture, so that we came to this change and all the Committee members agreed that the effectiveness of this body and its essence would finally be achieved, that is to say, achieved. Also, I would like to commend, later on, to say something more about it as an authorised representative, related to this law, that the procedure for regulating obligations on the basis of payment of contributions to persons who perform their own artistic or other activities is important and is not left for the choice of local self-government, which was in earlier years, so again, she came up with this category, since when you can't and you don't have to, you choose at some particular financial moment, saying exactly about local self-government that you don't have to. So it's actually an obligation for local self-government to pay these contributions to retired and socially independent artists to do something quite different about how we perceive artists, how we perceive culture, and how we actually keep cultural heritage, exactly this way, and how we think about culture. I think that perception is very clear and that the Ministry of Culture and Information led by Minister Maja Gojkovic has given a brand-new seal in this section of the Ministry's work and that in the coming period, we will also have on the agenda and for the next session of certain amendments and additions to the laws concerning culture again. Indeed, we see an extraordinary progress and that we will really return the culture to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5985	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5986	Thank you. Yes, I was aware of all the criticisms, the negative criticisms of the amendments and the additions of the Culture Act relating to the election of the National Council. I took that as a criticism of a minister who wants to change something in the fields of culture, so this time, the way of the election. It seems that those who were more bothered by the fact that we didn't have a National Cultural Council at all, and then it's natural for some informal power centers to appear beyond the Ministry of Culture and Information to pass the National Cultural Council. I say, whenever you change something, you try to change something, you give a personal seal, and you try to strengthen the Ministry of Culture and Information, as a natural place for making and laws and decisions in this area, then you have some kind of ottium of a certain part of the public who likes to smudge into unchangeable and idiocy, and they like it, and everything else you want to do, normally they don't like because it disturbs some of their established peace. I just want to say that the last session of the National Council for Culture we had, according to some of my data, and it's not easy to find them at the Ministry in 2015 when Minister Tasovac was still a culture minister. No one can tell me that it was good, and the attempt we had later in the last session and the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the parliament didn't go well either because they were a bunch of proposings, it was such a complicated procedure, so many promoters that only now when I'm someone who needs to arrange the area was I realized why we couldn't choose any new National Council for Culture. I don't think anyone can blame it if it comes to promoters, such as the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the National Archives of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Cinematheque, two members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and others from the Department of Language and Literature, the Mother of Serbia and the National Councils of National Minorities. I've seen that there's an association that says that then there's going to be left out artists who are independent artists. No, they didn't get it right. These are the promoters and promoters, I hope, that they have so much awareness that they are proposing not only from their institutions, but from the fields of culture and art that they consider to be candidates for members of the National Council for Culture. First of all, the National Council for Culture means that this is a advice for the culture of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the proposings must be serious, relevant, to give us a number of proposals. The ministry will make a list, send it to parliament. That list does not oblige parliament at all. I will not be offended by the fact that most MPs disagree with that proposal and return the minister who will repeat the whole procedure. It is now in a more transparent, better way, I find it more efficient to translate the legal norms that are in front of you. I am convinced that in a few months we will also have a session to elect members of the National Council for Culture and finally and have the National Council for Culture, if we are already required by the legal provision of the 2009 law. I say, to be satisfied that last session was in 2015, I don't see what quality it is. I'm saying, that's the middle of it. There are those who think they should deal with politics, but nothing to change, to have a car or a secretary, and there are those who deal with politics and if they get that privilege yet to lead another important resort to try to change something, to fight anomalies in their portfolio and to improve the legal framework together with the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5987	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister once again. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, when the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation is in question, we believe that this law solves one, let me say, problem, that is, the competitiveness of our economy in international co-operation and that it was necessary to facilitate our business in the future to pass one such law. Later, in the debate in principle, I'd like to talk a little more about the law. Also, I think it's very important and the law we're making right now, which is the bill on items of precious metal, certainly for many reasons. It is seen in the very proposal for a law that Article 2 paragraph 6 of the Law does not apply to investment gold within the meaning of the law governing value added tax, as well as investment silver, platinum and paladium. However, if we look at the reasons for this law and the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is clear that the adoption of this law fulfils the obligation set out in paragraph 48(1). An action plan to implement recommendations from the risk assessment for money laundering, which is an integral part of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why did I say this? The public has already debated a period of time over a very large asset owned by a former politician and a former regime representative. Some 25m euros are being talked about in real estate, some 70m euros are being talked about in almost money based on various bank accounts. I'm talking about former Belgrade Mayor, former DS President Dragan Gilas, and the reason I'm saying this is because at the time he made the most money, or took money from Serbia, from Serbian citizens, it was during the global economic crisis in 2008. Knowing what Dragan Gilas was to him was not enough to secure his own capital that he acquired by kidnapping from the Republic of Serbia and its citizens only in foreign accounts. He didn't keep it just in real estate, but I believe he kept it just in this gold, because we're talking about precious metals, we're talking about gold, silver, platinum, etc. So I appeal that the Money Laundering Prevention Authority is also dealing with this problem, to see if tycoon Dragan Gilas has both in our banks and in various world destinations, in various tax havens and precious metals, as he has acquired them, where he hides them and in what amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5989	I also thank Mr. Arsic. We are moving on to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups. The first word has the vice president of the National Assembly, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5990	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and other government representatives, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the quality and strength of one nation's culture lies and looks into the quality of that people, and the community and that individual. The cult is what it's believed in. So the power of faith depends on the power of culture. It depends on the wealth of faith and belief on the quality and strength of the culture of individuals, families, communities, peoples, nations and mankind. So that nation, that state, those representatives of the people, the elite of one nation, the intellectual elite, the political elite who manage to find the right path, the real discourse in culture, that will mean success in establishing headquarters, verticals, all other values in society. On the other hand, disorientation in the cultural course and discourse will mean disorientation in all other directions. What should be the focus of our interest in all our capacities, above all, intellectual and political potentials and capacities, is an additional focus on culture in terms of its importance, positioning in the state and society, and certainly taking all necessary measures from seeking the best legislative framework to all operational solutions so that we here in this country, with all our spiritual potentials, but also ballasts and problems, succeed as soon as possible to find our way. Why is it important to find the way and whether we have it, or whether it is disputed? We've got him in principle. When you hear people at different levels, when they plead on this point, what they think, what they believe, what they value, we generally have a clear orientation, but on the other hand, it's necessary to face a number of anomalies, detect them, define them and look for answers and solutions. With the anomalies that are definitely the legacy of the last century, first of all, the legacy came from ideological and other reasons that were due to these ideological wanderings. Half a century of dominating antitheistic, godless attitudes, I can't say values, definitely left deep marks on our cultural direction, on our cultural beliefs and cultural behaviors. So, the culture of belief in the previous culture of opinion and to the most significant extent shaped it, and then on the matrix of a culture of belief and opinion, almost all other branches of the culture of life are branched out. Don’t be surprised that close bond between culture and cult, that is, between culture and what is believed in, for in fact every man forms his own value system in his head, in his consciousness according to his faith and his beliefs. What are the basic postulates of every man's culture? It's a list of life priorities. We all have a list of priorities in our lives. Always the most important thing on that list is on top of us, and then below, the less important. When we're not in a position to have everything that's on that list, we usually sacrifice what's lower for the higher one. In fact, this list of priorities, our life priorities, whether it's spiritual priorities, ethical, biological, family, any one, it's actually a system postulate or a system of postulates of fundamental elements of our entire culture. I think in society, and even in elite circles, we lack more talk, debate, writing about the very essence of culture. Culture is one of the concepts that seems clear to us all and that this clarity is meant and that we are going over it, and when you listen to all public appearances or read most of these texts, mostly when it comes to culture, art is talked about, or possibly monumental culture. However, these are just some cultural margins. Art is very important, but it's a cultural margin. Yeah, she's an elite part of culture, but elite always makes sense like all the lovely branches and flowers in one tree, if they have strong trees and strong branches, so it all makes sense in that composition. Art makes no sense, loses its meaning, even loses its strength and meaning, and usually has no value when we have a void in the culture of the people, in the culture of consciousness, in the culture of opinion, in the culture of belief, in the culture of nutrition, in the culture of communication, in the culture of life, in the culture of housing, in the culture of entertainment, in all aspects of culture. So, what should be a new focus and based on this law, and on the other aspirations of the ministry, and what makes me more happy, knowing the minister herself and her commitment, and I'm glad to have someone who isn't a member of the culture at the head of this ministry, but someone who, in my opinion, I say now with my own confidence, and she won't mind me saying it this directly, but someone who believes in what she's doing. Because we need more people in all fields who believe in what they're doing, but especially when it comes to the segment of culture, there can't be bureaucrats, because it has to be felt. Culture and soul are inseparable. It is therefore necessary to invest part of the soul in culture and from the position of the minister and from the position of her team and from the position of all those who will get certain chances and opportunities to participate in this, because the spirit and culture are inseparable. So strength, layering and the wealth of culture is actually a direct reflection of the wealth of the spirit of a nation. The wealth of a nation’s spirit is essentially seen in the wealth of each individual’s debt. Yes, there's additional wealth and cultural monuments. Yes, there are additional wealth and written old manuscripts. Yes, there are additional wealth and various forms of art and old and new, etc. These are all decorations of our culture, but the essence of culture is the wealth of the spirit of every individual nation. That's where we need to get back to that focus. Of course we open up a lot of questions here and this isn't the opportunity to explain everything. These are topics for parliament, but they are also topics for symposiums that should be massaged, started from the position of the Ministry of Culture and from the position of the Ministry of Education, because I think, although I will not be the first to mention it, that poverty of our culture began or started at the moment when we began to separate culture and education. Education is nothing more than giving cheeks to a child who's supposed to be a grown man tomorrow. To give a child the cheek, build his cheek, means to cultivate him. Therefore, it means to complete it, perfect it and improve its culture. That's why this fundamental culture of peoples and nations, it is not formed in cultural institutions, it is maintained and upgraded in cultural institutions, and it is formed in education institutions, from kindergarten, through primary school, secondary school, and beyond university. That's why we're going to have to, say, unpack our strategies, and the education strategy, and the culture strategy, and go back to proven, these are proven matrixes, proven programs that have survived the century. Unfortunately, we sometimes buy it ourselves to fill some of our gaps in being, perhaps sometimes under some inferiority complexes compared to other civilizations, pick up what we shouldn't pick up, like a vacuum cleaner. You know, the vacuum cleaner buys everything that comes before him, and it shouldn't be everything, but it should get around something. We should therefore be more careful, especially in the educational strategy, in the educational strategy and in the strategy of development and promotion of culture. You can't formulate culture, shape, develop and protect on other people's matrixes, please remember this. It's not a problem when we get homework from Brussels, I'm up for it, all the real challenges of modernity, and they're mostly in the field of economics, in other areas of life, I'm here to be very jealous that we accept it faster and faster than we accept it, and not just because they're asking us to, but because it's good and that they're better at it. But we clearly need to separate that theme field from what is a field of spirituality. We cannot serve the standards of spirituality, cultural standards and ethics from Brussels. It's our original, personal and collective original, our domestic, our Balkan. That's why my hand will never be raised to support it, to support the denial of myself, of us, because something shines, looks modern, and you know, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that the spine shines the most. So that's where we'd have to get trapped, work a little more focused on this, and then start the process of recultivating, the process of recultivating the nation through the process of education and education. This is where our entire culture is formed, not just the awareness of culture but the existing culture. Yes, I've already said, we'll repeat -- we're wasting huge energy to get the dust off the cultural and historical monuments, and that's what we're proud of. We're proud, but it's the result of our ancestors, not wondering what we're going to raise, build, make and leave behind? In other words, will our grandchildren and grandchildren have anything to take the dust off? That's the key question. And in this order, I'm not sure. Because we are now crucified between taking the dust off the monuments, not wanting to reduce monuments by, absolutely, the value of the monuments, and on the other hand, in this confusion of what a modern culture is, where we are involved in challenges and modern culture which, by my deep convictions, brings back to a lower stage of thought development, ideas, images, through a quick picture, through a film, through actually one industry, one business that is related to art. I'm not going to disrespect him again, we need a movie, we need a series, we need a picture, we need a quick picture, and everything that's some modern art form, but what I'm never going to agree to, is that it's the headquarters of our culture. I won't agree to that. It's something that goes by itself, which is on the verge of whether it's art, whether it's business, whether it's informative, whether it's a pamphlet, whether it's ideology, what it's all about. Let's have it have its own tape, but now that we're being held hostage, actually, by all our culture, it doesn't come to mind. So we are crucified between the past, the serious cultural heritage of our ancestors who make us some hay and anesthesia that we are proud of, and that we pride ourselves is not our work. Ladies and gentlemen, what is our work in culture - that should be a major and key issue. I also apologize to the Minister of Sports for spending all my time on culture, but culture is my favorite theme, and I get killed, I sink, I swim, and then I'd love to go back to the warm sea, but the high seas are pulling me back, but here, I'm gonna have to be back before 20 minutes. Since we gave full support to the Anti-doping Act yesterday on the Committee, it is definitely an important civilization law that will improve the control of doping and reduce it to a minimum, and it also agrees with the requirements of international, given that sport and how it is related to international relations, and that is why the law should certainly be given full support, to say that it does not turn out that I have just drowned in culture and that we do not support the Law on Culture, therefore, and that law should be given clear support, although I would be a little reserved here about the National Council on Culture. It's not a bad idea to have someone else past the institutions. Institutions are usually bureaucratic and they usually hold monopolies. You know how science's got monopolies. You can also have Nikola Tesla outside the academy, if he doesn't have most of the academy he'll never be admitted. It is the same with certain other institutions. That's why there's huge energy in a culture outside the institutions. And why wouldn't the law allow, for example, some members of this National Cultural Council to propose a Committee on Culture as a congregation as a roof institution of all cultural institutions and organizations? So we will give the possibility that through parliament, as the most measuring institution to choose, which will ultimately choose this national council, we will also have certain proven individuals who will not be exclusively on behalf of these institutions, but certainly the idea of a national cultural council is a very big idea and important. Since my minutes are gone, I'd like to thank you for your attention. There'll be an opportunity to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5991	I thank Vice President Zukorlic. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5992	Obviously, honourable MP, you have more affection for cultural discussions and less for economy and sport, but it really suits me as a resolute minister, when I see MPs wanting to discuss culture, and that is quite another picture to the public, which she felt was of no importance to Serbia. I believe it is extremely important, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is that it has chosen for the first time in history a resolute minister in charge of culture and information and for the vice president to show her what is one of the priorities in this mandate. We'll have a chance to talk more, because it's just in preparation for the Cultural Heritage Act, the draft is made and going to a public debate. Here we can talk about the topics that you're talking about, which I agree with in part, although I absolutely support contemporary creation, but without that basic base of cultural creation and that classic that you're talking about, there's no contemporary creation. Then we can't accept so much modern tendencies if first of the earliest days of our lives, through entertainment, you've just forgotten one thing, and preschools and schools, you've said everything, you've forgotten your family, that family is the key to everything. Family makes a habit of loving culture, going to the theater, going to museums, going to movies. It's not a tool with the help of a culture, it's just a modern aid, let's just say, at the time of the crown when we couldn't get out of our houses, to inform ourselves, but not to like and not to essentially know what culture is. I am therefore pleased that we are one of the few European countries, which have managed to open cultural institutions and that in this difficult time we are one of six or seven European countries in which to go freely to theatre and theatres work, museums, galleries can be visited, and classical music concerts or some traditional music are held in part. I'm saying, we're gonna have a big public debate about this legacy culture law and we're gonna be talking about it here in Parliament soon. The National Council for Culture, I say we didn't have it, I was wrong, in 2015 they elected the President, and in 2018 it was the last session. Then nothing happened. We had a really big range of proposings. Did they not manage, is it that in our country no one can agree, so everyone proposed and thus tied the hands of parliament to be able to plead. We will try to see that consciousness, in these institutions of culture, I hope they understand the spirit of the law well, they are the promoters, but they should not propose themselves and now choose from employees in these institutions of culture, who should be in the National Council for Culture. It is not the intention and in that letter that should, after the adoption of these amendments and the additions to send them and to invite them to join the candidates, I will explain to them that they are the promoters, but they must have the breadth, all the people who deal in certain segments, in those areas for which they are in charge, to propose them, and parliament will give that last word. There wasn't really room for now, but it's not an idea for a rejection, that maybe in some future and the Committee on Culture and Information be one of those. But like this now with these amendments and additions and this amendment to the Government, I say we have returned that, however, the Committee on Culture and Information and the Assembly, ultimately give their last word, accept or do not accept one of the members of the National Council on Culture and return it to the Ministry to repeat the procedure, if any of the proposed candidates are not fit, so here MPs deserve to be a member of the National Council for Culture. I think it's every man's dream, in some segment of his life, to be in the National Council for Culture one day. It's the greatest honor anyone can get. I watched what it was and who suggested who in the past councils, when they didn't pass the proposals. I recognize even one person who has finished the academy, I won't say which, because it will be recognized immediately, but who in life has done nothing after that. It has been proposed to become, by your will and vote, a member of the National Council for Culture. That's what we wanted to avoid only, not stop someone from running. We will see what the proposals are, and it is your right to accept these proposals or not to accept them, and thus the role of the Assembly will play a key role in selecting members of the National Council for Culture. I'm willing to talk about every proposal to improve the Culture Act, because these are some urgent interventions, so we can work at all, and my deep conviction is that we need a new Culture Act. I don't know who wrote it, but I also notice you have certain negative reactions, or that you agree with me. It's one text of the law that, like from the sea, as if there was a deadline, because now it's all modern and you have to keep some deadlines to meet and run for some conditions. It seems to me like someone got a deadline, realized he didn't do anything, and then he let something go before us, and that's how it went. We voted for the Culture Act, but the time has come to be serious about the new law on culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5993	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5994	I would like to thank the MP, Dr Zukorlic, for full support today and for supporting the work of the Committee and the Education Subcommittee, where it is involved and sport, we have had the opportunity very detailed and content to talk in the previous two days. I must point out that it means a lot to support the board and subcommittees of the sport system and thank you for that, and I also know that if you haven't taken a lot of time in the story of amendments and additions to the Law on Doping Prevention, I know as a former athlete or a very active recreational athlete, how much you support the entire system of sports and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5995	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Right on the line, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5996	I thank the ministers for their comments. As for the role of the family, I did not slip into the speech about it, because it would take me 20 more minutes, and I touched the relationship between culture and education for the reason that education and education is in the jurisdiction of the state, and here I refer primarily to state institutions, national MPs present, government representatives and state institutions because that is what is of direct responsibility for us here in the National Assembly. Otherwise, beyond any doubt, the family is one of three key subjects of human profiling through the education and formation of personality and not only in terms of direct awareness of culture, but also of the very formation of self-awareness that will actually represent the cultural profile of each individual and every person. I look forward to announcements related to the new law, so where we will definitely be able to discuss all these ideas in good time, as well as understanding of the Deputy Prime Minister for the ideas that we have highlighted here, we have reiterated. I would certainly like to underline that we have had excellent cooperation with the Minister of Sport through the board, through an earlier meeting and I am pleased to say that there is this openness and that I can say that this is also with certain other ministers, above all, the Minister of Education and his team, significantly better than in the past term, of course, that I am not slipping into the risk of being ashamed of those past now, and I praise these new ones, because this is the easiest. We are definitely better off in this mandate with co-operation and it is very important that we have the right results and carry out our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5997	The word has an authorised representative, the JS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5998	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Gojkovic, Atanakovic, Mr. Udovic, along with all your associates, this looks nice today, as if the issues of the Government have already begun, we have three ministers here today ahead of us. At the beginning of your presentation, Mrs Gojkovic, you tried to find out what is common as an experienced MP, our former MP, our colleague, to find what it is that combines culture, sport and economy. I followed you closely and you said it was courage. I agree with you, and I've tried to look at it from another angle, of course, not binding to all of your ministries. Contrary to culture, it's unculture. Whether it's a non-culture of politics or a non-culture of life. Contrary to sports and doping in sports is political doping, it's doping lies. Contrary to accreditation, I can say it's some kind of qualification or some kind of censorship. Now that I'm looking at a political scene of who's uncultured in politics, when I'm looking for who in politics uses doping lies, and who's the one who can't cross any qualifications or the simplest word "census," the name "Marinika Cabanu Tepic" appears to me in that puzzle. And let me tell you one thing. These days, I've been dealing with preslimping and what Marinika's doing. And what I've concluded is this. Everyone she'd attacked so far has given her time and space in the media. This time she hit in a very incorrect way in a large target group. Of course, as always with false accusations, to prepare the ground for what comes next. The media, most of all, corresponds to every headline when you tell someone that he's a pedophile, that he's done something like that, and that's where we come into a very slippery terrain. The current president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, definitely enjoys the greatest popularity. It's measured by his actions and it's not disputed. All the research shows it. Former President Boris Tadic also enjoyed great popularity at the time he was president. When I watched the research then and now always at the top of the popularity for them was the name Dragan Markovic Palma. And that research wasn't done by us, it was done by independent research agencies. Why is this fake application thing happening? Because it's getting closer to the election. Because one lobby group or organization, I don't know what to call them either, has a desire to demand certain changes in family-related laws over the next period, insist that two men can adopt a child. We of Unity Serbia, whatever they're doing to us, however they attack us, we won't agree to that. Be safe. Why are they still attacking us? Because we will never vote for independent Kosovo and Metohija. So, in our Statute, the party writes, as in this Constitution, that Serbia is unique. And you know what, we've always called for unity. I, even today here, all those who are active in politics and those who are not active in politics, call for unity. We have a lot of problems as a state, of all the different influences on the side, and we should, if nothing at least be unique. That unity bothers someone. You must know, that what I just said, the idea of being brought together by the Unique Serbia, and its President Dragan Markovic Palma, I repeat, is that the family is sacred. So two men can't adopt children after us. Unity of Serbia territory, i.e. our Serbia must remain as it is today, so within the same limits. The fact that we have now occupied a part of the territory, that time of history will correct. Well, then Marinika Chobanov Tepic decided with her employers to try one blow, one blow, to destroy everything I've told you about. You know what they say - it won't work. You won't be watching that movie. As far as Unique Serbia is concerned, we were more than ever unique and believe me, every blow on us, it's like what the Soviets -- only the style of a Serb saves. You know what, whenever there's a difficult situation, we're all together. First of all, because we know we're defending the truth, that we're being attacked by lies. It can raise people, and when I talk about Marinika Tepic, I feel bad that after 10 days of those shameful statements, she didn't find it appropriate to apologize at least to all the women she insulted, and she insulted many women in Jagodina. Many families crashed and shook at the base. And the least he has to do as a woman is apologize to these women. She will continue to direct her political dirty attacks towards Dragan Markovic Palma. That's not the problem. We tell the institutions to do their job. Mr. Markovic leaves and enlists. She says - but that court can't do it, can't someone else? Then the state authorities disembark that court. She says, well, he can't, and he's got his own people there. What does it mean he's got his own people? He has his own party members in the King. So we have them all over Serbia. Well, upside down are political parties, and they don't have membership in all Serbian cities. Why doesn't she build a party and go with the same weapon to fight us? There's no way, there's no power, because it's hard for anyone to track it. If I were her, I'd talk about what she did in politics. Three parties have changed. It's a great experience. You can say -- we did it for the people, we did it for the state, we have a good work programme, vote for us in the future. What is their work programme – let's deal with disgusting lies. I say before, for all women who are offended and injured in Jagodina, she is also offended and injured by such lies and the family of Dragan Markovica Palma. No one ever turns around to say, "What's wrong with these people?" I spoke last time, politics, as she said, the other day, Minister One here, is a noble thing. And doing politics, helping others, and that should be the interest of all of us. I have to go back to Dragan Markovic Palm, a party that's been going on for 17 years, and that's what we're talking about, how he's been helping everyone. When I say that politics is on one side and dirty, I speak from my own experience. Because of my politics, I don't get into the details, they set the car on fire, and it could have burned down my house, but I told you last time, gentlemen, that by comparison, someone would tell you that you're a pedophile, it's absolutely not for measuring. So the biggest insult they could make is that particular sentence and one such false accusation. I'm one of those who believes in this country, from those who believe in this country's systems, and you can move from whatever city you want the subject, but the fact is that the truth is only one and the truth can't be any different. That's why I'm sure when a certain time passes and everything surfaces, that Dragan Markovic Palma will come out of all of this the way he is, the honorable, the honest, and the man who is, above all, subordinate to the people. I also insist that anyone who has endangered all the women I have talked about and all the families must suffer the consequences, because in this Serbia, if we continue like this, to accuse ourselves with lies, and with disgusting fraud and with false witnesses, look out, ask that witnesses for their safety, to guarantee their safety. Mr. Markovic, he says, do everything, guarantee whatever it is, and can they online get involved and be invisible, and what does that mean? If someone's guilty, and Dragan Markovic said it first, especially for a piece like this, it's a short trial, I'm a father and I have a daughter and I have a son, and for such an act, I don't need the law, so you don't get me wrong, but this is the same thing you would all confirm that you have a family. Therefore, someone has to answer for charges like this. Mrs. Gojkovic, so much for this puzzle you mentioned. When it comes to the laws that are on the agenda today, what is most important to you, Minister, is that the JS parliamentary group will support them. I will, not by any means, but not exactly how it came in the agenda, to comment on them. The first law is the law on culture. Mrs. Gojkovic, what you just said, a few minutes ago is that maybe it's mature to get a new law on culture. What you could have done with the existing one, I can see that you did, but the fact is that if you want to make the changes you talked about, and the suggestions you made, you have to make an absolutely new law. It is a specific field and it has been a lot of controversy, whether or not, and you said earlier, being a minister, that on the one hand is courage, and you've done an honest and correct job, and I think that even today in discussions, with other colleagues, we won't give up much of what we've heard so far, because it is true. You've given maximum of what's at your disposal. What I want to say when it comes to culture, it's obvious that, when it comes to cultural infrastructure, you've done a lot. In a large number of municipalities and cities, cultural centres and theatres are renovated, and that's a good thing. You first, you have to create conditions for culture, they are unfortunately in one series of years, I can say freely put into another plan, and you have put them in focus and what I can praise when it comes to my Vronjačka Banja, where I come from, that we too have found ourselves on the list where we are going to renovate the castle of culture in Vrnjačka Banja and finally finish and renovate the library in Vrnjačka Banja. Since I was just talking about Jagodina, the state also participated with some 10% of the works on the reconstruction of the Jagodina theatre, the Cultural Centre, we will get a serious cultural centre with over 2,800 squares, with 650 sitting places, etc. So, when it comes to the Law of Culture, certainly a colleague will talk more closely, given that this time is passing quickly. Now I'm also going to say a little bit about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Accreditation. To be honest, little and strangest law today. When we talked, colleagues, we hardly all agreed on it, but here we are, when all the materials were analyzed, etc. It is undeniable that we must do this, first of all, because of this standardisation with the EU and with greater control that the Ministry of Economy will have over all those entities that can do accreditation. Since you, the minister, are coming from Triestenik, we're down there, sharing us some ten kilometers and as far as you're concerned, as someone who's in the economy, I've heard really well, then I have to mention this "First Five-year-old," which, unfortunately, isn't the same as it used to be, as well as the mass of enterprises that were destroyed in those inhuman privatisations, but down there's a number of employees who managed to save one part of the company and that's a good model how to fight. The fact that the "five-year-old" had 15,700 workers, it was a large number of engineers, machine engineers, there were a large number of good masters, first of all, on rodents and on tools, concerning machine processing and what was happening over time, which is that these people were opening their own private companies. This is good when we talk about accreditation. They are taught in one serious system how standards are respected and how all these accreditations are respected so that you can export goods. We were then working for large serious airlines around the world, but these people have just made small businesses, family businesses that also Vranjska Banja, believe me, in the good part of the Vranjska Banja budget have their own influence. Certainly this accreditation can only have positive effects on our economy, not negatively, because even if we want to deal with exports, we have to meet some standards that, above all, European countries will ask us to. It's not just in the economy or that kind of situation you have in agriculture where, say, you don't have a Global G.A.P. You can't sell your goods to some markets even though they need the goods. So, as for standardisation and all that has been used in this law, the Single Serbia parliamentary group is giving support. When it comes to the draft law on items of precious metals, I think it is compatible with this law and here, again, I have nothing to tell you, but what's interesting, here, as some of the most important things we can say, that this legal solution will affect more efficient work, and it will not produce any new costs for users, which is very important for people in the economy. What can be singled out, of course, and that's one of the same reasons for adopting and harmonising with inspection laws and administrative procedures, so this was an obligation, this is what you had to do. But every time we talk about valuables, somehow all of us immediately turn on a gold lamp, and what I think today is to be said and what Serbian citizens need to know, which is that, according to the National Bank of Serbia's 2013 data, the gold reserves have been increased quantitatively by 20.7 tonnes, i.e., they are also more of the care doubled, and the value estimated for this increase is 1.1 billion, only in the last two years the reserves have increased by 12 tonnes of gold, 9 tonnes was bought in October 2019, and 3 tonnes have been bought in November 2020. Why is it important that citizens also know how this stability is in terms of economy and in terms of course and everything else, so if you want all these vaccines and all the trends that are currently current and helping citizens? It's precisely because of those reserves according to data from the National Bank of Serbia. The share of gold in foreign reserves currently stands at 12% of the total reserves. As for this law on precious metals, we will certainly support it. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, Mr. Udovicic made an introduction today. He clearly explained and gave the direction in which we should go, I mean, he, first of all, has the most right to talk in it, so I will not talk about sports on behalf of my parliamentary group because my colleague, the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic, and the national champion, and the European champion, and the world champion, and if anyone should talk about sports, about sports without doping, it is certainly Maria. What I have seen in the media these days, and this is a good proposal, Željko Obradovic, our most professional coach is in some media, I can't now follow exactly where it was, but he has made one good proposal, which is that in all municipalities and cities through sports alliances we need to fight that children don't pay membership fees to play sports, but to some period, whether it's fifth grade or eighth grade, we as municipalities, cities, we as a state need to take on ourselves some kind of, let's say, a commitment, to provide them with such conditions in sport. The fact as well as in culture that a lot has been done on sports infrastructure, I congratulate you on that, you're already the second term bound by a sports minister, the effects are obvious, unfortunately this pandemic and the crown have slowed us down in many things, so we don't have that intensity of competition as we had before, but we all believe this is going to end quickly. Ministers, when it comes to the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia and the laws that are on the agenda today, expect full support from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u5999	Thank you. The word is from the vice president of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6000	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, Vice-Presidents and members of the Government, as I pointed out in this address, will be as the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group at this opportunity to base myself on amendments and amendments to the laws on culture. After 12 years, as the current Cultural Act is currently in force, there has indeed been a need for one part of the provisions to be compared with real life problems and for amendments to the Culture Act to simplify certain procedures to make them more efficient. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws on culture aim to strengthen co-operation, as we have heard, different actors of cultural policies and to improve efficiency, control and procedures. However, the SVM parliamentary group, as the essence of the proposed changes ahead today, sees the development of a democratic political culture, which really promotes diversity, trust, mutual trust, strengthens the sense of community. Trust and unity are the cornerstone of social integration. The SVM parliamentary group is the position that in the social integration process, the National Councils of National Minorities should play a key and extremely significant role, given that they are based on the competences laid down by law, I would now quote the definition – the National Councils of National Minorities are dedicated to the preservation, promotion and development of cultural specificities and the preservation of the national identity of the national minority. We call it a coloquial roof law, but the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities defines a national minority as by number a sufficiently representative group that is in a permanent or solid relationship with the territory of the State and has features such as language, culture, national and ethnicity, origin and religion, which distinguish it from most of the population and whose members are distinguished by the care that they jointly maintain their common identity, including culture, tradition, language or religion. That is why it is the task of national councils of national minorities to seek to enforce the right to cultural autonomy and to find, through, both social dialogue and through consultations with representatives of the authorities, both at national and local level, simple national advice and all of us together to find the best possible solutions and integration models so that the law guaranteeed the rights of national minorities really respects and applies, because we always hear from everyone that the legislative framework of the Constitution is good through various laws, as regards the rights of national minorities, and that sometimes we still need to work on implementing or implement those laws. The position of the SVM parliamentary group is that a number of proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Culture ahead are going towards finding better solutions in order to truly achieve the role of national councils in the work on promotion of democratic political culture. As I mentioned trust and community, these are provisions concerning, as we have heard from the distinguished minister, the efficiency of the National Council for Culture, the improvement of the co-operation of founders and boards of directors in the procedure of calling and implementing public competitions for the selection of directors, for example, as well as the harmonisation of the effectiveness of the functioning of the mentioned administrative and supervisory committees of cultural institutions. It is precisely by detailing the role of national councils of national minorities in those areas that are institutionalising minority political culture, linking the cultures of the majority community and building a common cultural heritage. For the SVM parliamentary group is of particular importance, I would now officially thank here for the understanding of the vice president and the minister for not changing the provisions on the composition of the National Council for Culture of the Republic of Serbia in the work relating to the number of members who propose national councils of national minorities. There are two members left. We are sure that, hopefully, but on the other hand, we are confident that the activities of representatives of national minorities will contribute to the construction of integrated cultural policies. Also, what the distinguished minister was talking about in the opening statement and what is the fact that we tried, so together we resolved the issue of the number of board members in the light of the real problems that arose at the relationship between the board and the founder. I'll try to explain it, because it's actually two dimensions of the problem. On the one hand, we have the Law on the National Councils of National Minorities, and under this law, the National Council proposes that the Republic, both the AP or the local self-government unit, as the founder of establishing the status of an institution of the particular importance of public institutions of culture. So there is this possibility that it remains in the law itself on the national councils of the national minorities, regardless of which it has been partially amended and that certain provisions of that law have been declared against the constitution. For example, the problem we face in practice is visible in certain cases. I would like to mention perhaps the City Museum "Sabotica", the City Museum "Senta" or local self-government larger which are in Vojvodina, for example, richer national minorities. In these cases, more national minorities, for example, Hungarian, Bunjevac, Croatian, Roma, etc. can happen. declare that local institution of particular importance and if we stay on, as was in the original proposal, to limit the board members to five, and under the National Minority Councils Act, all these national councils could propose a member of the Management Board, then it would turn out that of five members of the Management Board, let's say, four of them are representatives of national minorities, which is not realistic, which is why it's good, then I'll quote, and this one, at the end of the amendment of the Government that will become an integral part of this law. The participation of members of national minorities in the management of public institutions is a basic prerequisite for the effective participation of minorities in the conduct of a cultural policy of a particular territory. It is not disputed that minority culture is conducted primarily at the level of local public institutions of culture, so we are not talking about some large institutions, but more of them in certain places where these minorities are present. This enables a stronger connection with important cultural institutions, because they are members of national minorities through their representatives in the governance bodies in due time, informed of everything, about all projects, possibilities, problems of opportunity, and can fully demonstrate their position in the decision-making process, on all relevant issues of work and development of the institution. On the other hand, if we continue to look at the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the National Council may initiate, or re-propose, the Republic, AP or the unit of local self-government as the founder of an institution, which, in accordance with this law, the Law on National Councils of Minorities established as an institution of particular importance for a particular national minority, may propose, to initiate and partially transfer the founding rights. Taking over the founding rights is necessary, of course, to strengthen both the role and the responsibility of the national councils themselves and, above all, through the creation of a legal basis for closer co-operation between the boards and the founders themselves. That is why our SVM parliamentary group certainly welcomes the government's decision to make the final version of this Article 11. The bill is fully adapted to reality, what can happen in certain local self-governments and to be precise, what we have heard from the Vice-President of the Government, that the Management Board of the Institute has five members, means initially, as planned, to limit itself, not to be more than five members, except these cases I have mentioned, where the number of board members will increase by one representative of the national councils of national minorities for which the institution has declared that institution of particular importance and it is important to mention more of them by as many as there are. We believe that in this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has confirmed that it is working to implement integrated cultural policies, stressing respect for both national and regional diversity, while at the same time fostering a common cultural heritage, because preserving the cultural specificity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, members of national minorities, would remind all of us, makes several bilateral agreements on the protection of national minorities first with Hungary, Croatia, Romania, but we have such a bilateral agreement and with Northern Macedonia. However, that the exercise of the Constitution and the laws of guaranteed rights depends to a good extent not only on the state, but also on the members of national minorities themselves and on the national councils that we currently have 23 in Serbia, we can see if we look at, for example, the report of the Protectors, a special report – an analysis of the state of play in the area of public authority of national minority councils for the period from 2014 to 2018, which actually results in national councils of national minorities being their own network of particular importance some have established and some have established in the period from 2010 to 2014, which is entirely logical, because the Law on National Councils of National Minorities came here in August 2009 and then gives them the opportunity to establish institutions of particular importance. First, the Hungarian National Council did so between 2010 and 2014, and later from 2014 to 2018, let's say, three national councils – Bosniak, Bunjevac and Vlach. The National Council of the Hungarian National Minority has declared a total of 24 cultural institutions of particular importance to institutions, the National Council of the Macedonian National Minority One, the Russian two, Albanian three, Slovak ten, while the Czech one institution and all of this in the period until 2014. A similar trend is seen when we look at the status of cultural goods of particular importance for the national minority in order to protect both material and immaterial cultural heritage. A number of national councils have established cultural goods of particular importance as soon as a legal opportunity arises. As we have said, since the second half of 2009, in fact, in the period from 2010, as in 2014, these processes ended in 2014 to 2018 in many, for example in the case of Hungarian, and during the period from 2014 to 2018, these national councils carried out their legal powers regarding these cultural goods. For example, in 2012, the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority made a decision establishing 140 material and immaterial cultural goods of particular importance for the Hungarian national minority, while, for example, the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority also enjoyed these rights given by law and in 2013 decided on the determination of movable and immovable material goods and a list of immaterial cultural heritage of particular importance for the Bosniak national minority. We believe it's an important part of the Culture Development Strategy. We expect that the Culture Development Strategy will be dedicated to the creation and culture of minority communities, as this is a matter of importance for mutual understanding, respect. We'll understand each other, we'll understand each other if we know each other. I would remind all of us that, for example, basic schools in Finland are required to learn Swedish, in order to simply meet a better Swedish national minority, which has 5% in society. The adoption of this mentioned Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia is one of our obligations under the Special Action Plan for Minorities and would actually be the fulfilment of our obligations under Chapter 23 and we are sure that representatives of minority communities will be involved in the process of drawing up this strategy. Speaking of European integration, let me also mention Chapter 23 – education and culture. As we know, it's one of the chapters that's temporarily closed. It shows that culture is, due to its specificity, an integral part of many areas and therefore requires at the same time more than 10 negotiating chapters to be monitored. That is how, because culture is a binding tissue, about everything, and a dozen themes should be monitored, it should be harmonised, which is why we believe that it is also necessary and significant that this law, although only amended and complemented, is in line with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. When we talk about a common cultural heritage, there is still a lot of work ahead of us, because you will agree that the institutional culture of minority communities is mostly left to minorities themselves, minority institutions themselves, or is spontaneously incorporated into certain thematic exhibitions that are being organised in some major museums, such as the Vojvodina Museum, the National Museum in Zrenjanin, the National Museum in Belgrade. In part, an attempt was made to represent the joint co-existence of different minority communities with the majority of certain exhibitions. in Vojvodina, through study exhibitions of the Vojvodina Museum, a long time ago, there were 2006, 2013 such exhibitions, under the roof title "Living together". I remind you that in the 1970s, already in the last 20th century in Vojvodina, individual environments have been set aside as centers for the preservation and spread of cultural traditions. For example, it is generally known that Senta is a centre for preservation of culture of Hungarians, Uzdin for culture of Romanians, Subotic for culture of Bunjevac, Baki Petrovac – a culture of Slovakia, a Russian Cross for culture of Russia, a White Church for culture of Germans and the Czechs. These are traditions that simply connect us to Central Europe. We all know how to live together in Vojvodina, we see that our customs, culture, beliefs, words in everyday use, proverbs, songs, cuisine and architecture are similar. I would like to mention several interesting projects within the Danube-Krish-Morish-Tis region that connects more than five million people, 5.3 million people. One of the projects that are in Romania's and Hungary's counties and of course AP Vojvodina, one of the projects that implemented two museums, the Banat Museum from Spasic and the Vrsac Museum, was the population of Romania's and Serbian population living in the Karas and Nera valley, and the most important result is the publication of a bilingual edition of Romanian-Spris and Romanian-English editions containing numerous results of architectural, ethnographic, ethnological research. At the end of 2013, it was also done similar, I think this is an IPA project that was done, on the one hand, the Museum in Subotica, and on the other hand the Skiskhalalaša Museum from Hungary. It is about cultural paths covering 45 settlements and the project shows cultural values from Baroque to modernism important for tourism and the integration of settlements. Protecting the authentic construction heritage of cities and less populated towns in Vojvodina is an extremely important part of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians programme. For us, the preservation of tradition and protection of authentic construction heritage is important, because traditional Dukean architecture for us represents a treasure of collective memory. Well, seeing as my time is running out, I'm going to try to bring up a few more things for a little while. It is significant that we understand co-founders as national councils of national minorities and in the case of some province institutions, say the National Minority Culture Institute, but local institutions. To mention what it's still enriching us and what opportunities are, what is it that we still have. At the level of local self-government of local institutions are co-founders of theatre, galleries, museums along with national councils. Hungarians, just to choose one or two national minorities, Hungarians in Vojvodina today have three professional theatres – the Novo Sad Theatre, the Kostolanja Theatre in Subotica, the Sencanic Hungarian chamber theatre. Professional scenes in Hungarian are the National Theatre of Subotic with drama in Hungarian, Subotic Children's Theatre and the National Theatre "Toša Jovanovic" from Zrenjanin, which has puppet plays for children in Hungarian. The publishing work in Hungarian deals with eight publishing houses, both in Novi Sad and in Subotica and Senta, and 10 magazines for culture are published in Hungarian and host numerous cultural events. Let me try to sum it up. Once again, I would like to thank and praise the responsibility and openness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture, and also the Prime Minister who also understood the appeal, not only the SVM and us, but the national councils, because, as we know, there is a coordination of all our national councils, and they are at the session of the National Council, chaired by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who made written remarks and are very happy and grateful that they have entered this final, or become an integral part of this law. Therefore, as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture, it is extremely important to comply with the Law on National Councils. We certainly support it and we'll vote yes. I also praised the Law on Accreditation and other proposals from the corner of European integration. About doping, he was supposed to talk about sports a little later, but because of the session where we're going to be asking questions, I'm not sure we're going to get to the turn, but in any case we support the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6001	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6002	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, indeed today we have one quality debate, and I would also like to thank the representatives of the Government, or ministers who have explained in detail the amendments and the amendments to the laws, and without justifying the remaining two draft laws, i.e. amendments and additions, we are not talking in parliament today, but I will start with the Law on Sports, and certainly, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, I will also refer to my previous presentation. Many colleagues have said about culture and said, but certainly it is one of the laws that is welcome to us at the right moment and we can agree that it may even be time for a completely new one, but when all the conditions for this law are met. As for the fundamental changes and addition of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, I would only mention some of the most fundamental, fundamental changes concerning the following issues, which is primarily because of the public who is following the meetings of the National Assembly, which in this way we can most precisely learn about what rights are, what are obligations and, ultimately, what is changing within the legal solutions. So I would refer here to defining infringement of the anti-doping rules in a way that has been established by the World Anti-doping Code. I think that these amendments and amendments to the law, it seems to me, regardless of the need to comply with European legislation in order to continue to respect the procedures in which the Republic of Serbia is bound, but certainly it is of great importance and that we must oblige all participants in sport to these laws, that is, respect. Therefore, the clearer determination of the obligations of competent national sports associations and other sports organisations in relation to the prevention of doping is something that must deepen the practical public awareness of the dangers of doping and what are the ways and types of control. Also, these amendments and additions to the law specify the powers and powers of the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia in the way it was established by the World Anti-doping Code, as I said a little while, in the context of a general harmonisation of obligations which we certainly have as someone who respects the World Anti-doping Code and we belong. Another change that is very important and provides the independence of the Antidoping Committee, and you explained it in your presentation. It is also, although not so popular, but certainly it is important to expand the serious form of criminal activity to allow the use of doping for all minors, and unlike the valid solutions that cover only minors from 14 to 18 years of age. So, it's another provision, although we don't like to deal with punishment and if we don't like these restrictive provisions to be the center of what will lead to respect for the law, I think it's very important to point out that and how we make sure that we promote healthy sports, or that our athletes participate in large manifestations, demands, and we are aware of that, certain controls, but it's also important to work with these groups of younger athletes who, regardless of their age, have entered the world of very serious sports and serious manipulations that are within sports and are located. As regards the amendment and addition of the Accreditation Act, in order to further improve, I think it is essential to strengthen the transparency of the work of the accreditation body, but also to define deadlines for the completion of the accreditation process which is certainly in the interest of the economy in order to shorten this process and to allow the economy to function normally and uninterruptedly and not to be burdened by too long periods and probably some excuses when it comes to the execution of obligations under this domain. The culture law that I'm going to move on to, of course, we're already completely here in a very short period of time, we've been able to look at it. What you said, Mrs Gojkovic, I agree, that the Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of the Ministry of Culture, culture at all, by having appointed the Minister of Culture as Deputy Prime Minister. I would also add to that finding of yours that the budget is what defined the importance of culture in future all strategies for the development of the Republic of Serbia. The budget that has been assigned to the ministry of culture and information is certainly the largest so far. We have come up with a significant item that defines the standard and the existence of seriousness in culture, not to always forget this second part of the information that defines a developed country, which is that one percent of GDP that defines how much you're willing to invest in culture. Also, the law that we had before this, the amendments and additions, in fact, since 2009 has been and has been a law that has not allowed certain parts of culture, or the Law on Culture to be respected in the way that the legislator intended to do so. With this, I think it is extremely important that what you have commented on by Mrs Gojkovic, and it is about public competitions in the field of culture. It all defines that the previous creators of this law, we know what the context of 2009 and who was in charge of creating this law, did not matter if these competitions were implemented in quality and that we came up with the best solution that would give us and the best possible result of this competition, it was already important, probably however it ended, and where the money from that competition went and how it was spent, I think it was absolutely to the one who wrote this law in 2009 that was not of interest and important. I believe that, first of all, you wanted to take this topic seriously for 60 days to call public competitions. First of all, you couldn't do it, you couldn't rely on one deadline that the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, the Ministry of Finance had prescribed for itself per difolt, which is that the Budget Law was passed at the end of the year, and not as we had had opportunities in previous times, just this year 2009, 2010 to see sometimes by March, April, and it certainly seems to me that one was in June of the following year. So it was devising all sorts of competitions that were conducted not only in the ministry, but also in other ministries. There's not much left to say about the National Council. You've explained it very closely. I really hope, no matter what law has room for changes and additions, at any moment when we feel or see that we recognize that in practice there is not enough efficiency that we will change. I don't mind, of course, that one member or as much as the one proposing the law will be run by the Committee on Culture, or run by the Committee on Culture. We can certainly talk about it, but certainly I am also thinking that this is a legal solution that you have given adequately and I am almost certain that it will give effect, which is that we will get a national advice for a culture that will truly fulfil its purpose and that will be able to carry out the tasks that are ahead of it, and will certainly be made up of people who, in the domain of culture, make up the most legitimate and possibly in the experience and achievements of the most vulnerable people who can sit on that council. You have also promoted the selection of directors and changed a certain structure of committees, i.e. boards of directors and supervisors. As for the election of directors, I really like someone who came from the economy, who knows how to conduct the selection of directors in public institutions, public utility companies and public enterprises, I know it can be and how problematic, regardless of the law. In this case, you've allowed that V.D. the director, or the acting director, that his term of office shall be only one year, which shall be in accordance with other roof laws. I would also like to commend your tendency that the number of members and supervisory boards of cultural institutions, which so far has been almost unlimited legally arranged. This will also lead to a causal-consequential, I think, higher responsibility for the election of directors elected for the institutions of culture, since then the role of founders will be far different and seems more accurate to me. Of course I'll commend whenever I'm able to do the last thing I'm going to talk about, as far as the Culture Act is concerned. This is exactly the payment of contributions to the pension and social insurance of independent artists, who so far have not been recognised in this way in the system. They were not respected in this way, I must say, given that, as I did in my previous presentation as the Committee's rapporteur, independent artists could have been on the burden of local self-government in this sense, but they didn't have to. With the provision that this is an obligation, we are indeed giving a concrete meaning to everything that they are and what independent artists do in preserving our national heritage, in preserving our cultural identity, in preserving and improving all cultural topics, since independent artists in culture make up a truly wide diapazon of interest. As for the Law on Culture, Parliament Group and all other laws, of course, it will give its support absolutely and undeniably, given that when we talk about these kinds of amendments and amendments to the law, when we talk about promotion, which is certainly in all the proposed amendments and additions to the case, we cannot fail to notice that this is nevertheless the result of one comprehensive and good work of the Government, the work of the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic, but also the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is indeed an ambush almost uninterrupted, it seems to me, and that in this regular session we have adopted a maximum number of laws, amendments and additions. First of all, Serbia's economic prosperity, economic progress makes us able to talk in this room, have full, practical freedom, pass such laws as well, but also those concerning infrastructure, which concerns the progress of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns concerns the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Since we adopted the budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia here exactly seven days ago, as another proof of a successful policy which, as I said a little while ago, is being led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ministers but of course also the President, is the result of this rebalancing process and the assistance of the state that has been given to our businesses, but also to citizens in the wake of the resolution of the consequences it has left behind, and we hope that we will soon end this topic related to Kovid 19. I only have one brief piece of information for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to give within this exhibition, which is that 60 euros, or 30 plus 30 so far, according to a report that we have registered two million people in just 35 hours. I remind you that in the context of all the assistance that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given to its citizens, this second one is what concerns so-called. The helicopter of money, or one that will certainly increase Serbia's production power, which will increase GDP, but also enable us to, as today Serbia's president, and almost no day, you noticed, Aleksandar Vucic doesn't open any infrastructure project or any factory, so today the president of Serbia has opened the 4 bypasses around Belgrade from the bridge on Savi near Osrežnica to Orlovac's loop and Petlovo Brdo, which proves that despite the fact that it is really hard to escort our president who, from early dawn, seems to me, from the south to the north to the west of Serbia, there is no place in which he does not find himself, there is no village which he doesn't know the name, honestly and truly dedicated works for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, it's very important that we have the very important principles for this economic progress, and that we have the new trends in the future, and the new ones that we need to be able to be able to see in the future, and the new governments, and the new ones, and the new ones, and the new ones, and the new ones in terms, which we need to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to make to make the money to make a new, and the new, and the new, and the new, Also, when we talk about the economy that I say is an inevitable topic, when we speak in the Assembly, because it just seems to me that in every topic of the economy there is a foundation and we don't have enough time to present all the results that we think it is necessary to highlight them and present them to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it seems to me that there is no need, given that the citizens of Serbia and that they see progress not only in their pockets in terms of wages and pensions, the increases already see it on the street. Practically when you start from the local community and further you have the opportunity to see what it is that the state is doing in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to raise their standards. Certainly, the inevitable topic is, however, the way we fought the coronary virus and the way we managed to provide this budget rebalancing with funds for the construction of the Kovid Hospital in Novi Sad, whose cornerstone was set up the other day and that within four months we expect another Kovid hospital, next to the two that were built and thus by the vaccine factory, next to the vaccines that we managed to provide for our citizens, and I will remind you that over three million people received the vaccine, whether at the dose of the first or second, we are certainly champions who are all of the world on the results against, that is, in the fight against the crown of the virus applauded, we have the opportunity to practically and here daily see that Serbia and how successfully struggled with the coronary virus, and that in this fight you are not only, and the leader of the region, and for the region we really needed a different standard not only to be able to trust this new virus, which we all of our people in this region, which we have been able to take care and the whole into the whole, that we are able to make the whole of our own way of the world, and the new, and the new species. Since we are talking about economics, I must really say simply because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to point out that finally when the topic of infrastructure is that an agreement has been reached and that very soon we will be here in front of the MPs and what is the long-standing dream of all Belgraders, but it was impossible for anyone living in Serbia, which is building a subway and Belgrade will finally get a subway. As far as we have been able to hear from Minister Sinisha Malia, I hope that today we will have the opportunity to ask him this question, and a law that will regulate not only the construction process, but also the methroom management system, which is indeed one of the huge progress and success of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the one I will remind you of, and the president of Serbia has had the opportunity to tell citizens after returning from Brussels, which is that the EU's 700m-euro support for the construction of the railway to Northern Macedonia is agreed. All that I have listed in addition to infrastructure projects, the American Development Corporation, which has provided another 400 million for loans to Serbian businesses, for the care and struggle for the lives of people, for the construction of hospitals, for the home of health, for the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, for the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, by the end of the year we will have eight highways, said that Serbia is changing, that it is getting a different face and that everything we have invested practically in the previous years in one strategy for the development of our Serbia really is somehow, it seems to me that suddenly there has been a creation of a different person and results that are practically visible to Serbian citizens and, in addition to what of course it is desirable to develop infrastructure, but what is most important for our citizens is to be safe, to be healthy, we have been able to make it possible, and on the other hand, that their standard, the personal standard, we will be in plus, and we will certainly make it possible in the coming period. However, there are those who have counted all of this, and I say again, it would take me a long, long time to list all the results that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia has managed to do in the previous period and which are lower every day, it would take me a long time to list it, there are those who are trying to put a noose around President Alexander Vukic's neck and try to get rid of it, because the elections are getting closer to us, as we had the opportunity to see in the previous months. The dialogue began with all those who wanted, who thought that dialogue was needed to improve electoral conditions and the SNS was, of course, one of those that would never run away from any kind of dialogue, or this, even though they felt that, by election conditions, they were far better and, as well as more favourable for them, the regime of the former authorities also came down years, dozens and decades of their electoral victory. We are ready for dialogue and are ready to say that we can change in every sense, at any moment because what is very important is that we do not change for ourselves, for the sake of others who have done so, but for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who need to choose their own representatives in the best possible way, and we will allow this pluralism of the electoral process to really be at the highest possible level. As we have done in all the inter-party talks that were reached in the previous period at the level of the Republic of Serbia in the discussion, or the intermediation of European parliamentarians, so we will do so in these days ahead of us. You saw that yesterday also held a conversation with the more numerous part of the electoral body which, I say, has and deserves one greater legitimacy than those who are only ready to talk to foreigners with the presence of President of the Republic and President of the SNS, Alexander Vukic, which indeed goes in fact in favour of our being ready to really talk to everyone and to ensure the best possible election conditions. Now, which won't be enough to get some to power, but they're asking for someone to put them in the assembly by hand, that's another thing, and that's exactly what I want to say, and to tell you that they're putting a noose around the neck to some "non-paper" mentioned these days to Serbian President Alexander Vukic, and these two proposals "non-paper" speak very clearly in favour of the fact that KIM and KIM issues are really being prepared and there are huge pressures on President Aleksandr Vukic and Serbia themselves. But also how could these others not rest who would have brought them to the National Assembly by hand and used this opportunity to say and to let everyone and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that even though this "non-paper" one or the other, you saw two solutions, you saw that they would come to power, that is to say that KIM are not part of the Republic of Serbia, they are for if this is a condition for Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic to step aside and to ensure that even without election will they come to power, so they are for that too. So, they are ready to place even this question, Kosovo and Metohija, the fate of our people in Kosovo and Metohija as a coin for co-operation with anyone who needs it. But Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic made it very clear that absolutely no pressures will be met, that he will continue to safeguard the sovereignty, unity and integrity of the Republic of Serbia and how he will take care of the standard of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija who are about to feel in the days ahead, and will have the opportunity to apply for 100 euros to help. So we also make sure that our people in Kosovo have a decent life and that they know that the president of Serbia, the SNS, is always there to support the integrity, unity and, above all, the security of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6003	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6004	I thank Sandra Christmas for her exhaustive discussion. I'll just look back on a few things. Yes, the 2021 budget relating to the culture portfolio is 0.97% of the total budget, i.e. 1.10% if you include more funds defined for part of the Ministry of Information. But what has never, or at least not in recent history, happened only by rebalance to get an increase in the culture budget, 300 million. An extremely important part that has shifted from business to culture resor, which is incentives, the creation of audio-visual action, i.e. filmmaking, series and advertising in the Republic of Serbia. So we got an additional 300 million, which means, regardless of the crown period, it's high interest of the film industry, domestic and foreign, to continue their work here in Serbia by filming movies, shows and ads. Of course, we received an additional 230 million aid to independent artists, and yesterday, the government's conclusion was made that another 83 million were allocated from the current budget reserve for those artists who were left out by mistake last year did not exercise their right to help. As for the competition, these changes and additions, we really want to take one step forward, so that all those who want to compete in our competitions get some time to prepare documentation and consultations with the Ministry. I accept every criticism that this year may take too long, but it should not be forgotten first that it is the time of the crown and that it is not easy for people to organize. Secondly, the ministry is decimated, and we have an extraordinary number of employees in the ministry. One comes, the other goes to sick leave. Third, the fact, something perhaps shocking, I was surprised when I found that there was no practical office in the ministry. We've got an office about the 15th century where one or two people work and they're taking one shipment at a time, seducing themselves. You can't imagine what it's like in the time of the competition. Now, I'm going to go into history, if by anything else, then I'm going to train the office to work in the 21st century. I hope we finish the public procurement procedure we're having a little trouble with soon. I'm saying, I didn't say that the Ministry of Culture and Information seems to be not only in love, but in every segment you discover a little bit of crime. It's something that stops us and that we're investigating, that we're doing exactly what we should do. Otom – then, we will dedicate one session to the state of culture, so it will be a very interesting exhibition, which the citizens of Serbia also like to hear about until recently. Just about what the segment of culture surrounds, not just what people mean by culture. There are also some public procurements where someone comes to you when the public procurement is over, in the last second with some 1,000 dinars a smaller offer which raises an extremely large suspicion, and you can see that some other republican institutions have had negative experience with the work of those participants on public procurements that are also related to our Ministry. I'm saying we don't have an appropriate office. You'd all be in shock as it looks. I hope we can get him a modern, electronic office where every ministry will be able to see where the case is at any time. This is how I do the job that's on the level of "Indiana Jones", I'm doing research on where there's an assistant laughing, where she's sitting, and then whoever's been working at the Ministry for a long time gets a little memory, so she knows exactly where it is, somewhere in the corner of some office. Believe it or not, but that's what it looks like. Competitions can be much better, I think that according to what it says – 60 days, that was true of the former, that it was a problem when the budget was passed on December 31st, so 60 days came to you about April 1, the first, second, third, April. We are now making the budget within the legal deadline of 30 days and 60 days actually run from the day you adopted the budget, which means I am also counting on this year at the end of November to bring in the budget for next year, and that the competitions will then be announced at the end of January of the month, 30 days, it is in March and everyone can withdraw their funds and realise. The biggest problem is that the competitions are still due to these difficult circumstances and the problem is that the participants of the competition will be able to realise, of course, this obstacle with the crown. The election of directors, yes, I demand this amendment and the addition of the law that the minister be informed of the board's intention to call the competition and that the minister give the previous consent. If I bear responsibility for selecting the director and proposing my government to the Republic of Serbia, then I must also have insight into what the Republic of Serbia is doing and what the intentions of that board of directors that the Republic of Serbia has also set up. They are not private cultural institutions so you can say – you have no right to interfere, but they are institutions of the culture of the Republic of Serbia and the minister must have some responsibility, but the minister should be allowed to decide something and to have some knowledge of what is being done in these cultural institutions. It's all some kind of vengeful way of thinking, it's a variety of deviations over time, and maybe they're not used to having a minister who cares about what's going on, but let's just hold on to this a little bit. I'm kidding, of course. As for help, there's my distinguished colleague, I hope to break her down to find the opportunity to help who she is and my resort, which is that the cinemas really got hurt in these measures, that the moss was closed, and we're looking for a model to help people who do this important work. On the other hand, we should not forget that the state invested in the digitisation of these cinemas and that we must not let our investment simply fail because of the conditions in which they worked or did not work. Local self-governments have to pay their contributions. As they pay contributions for other people, social, health, independent artists are obliged to receive from their local self-government. I say, there are not many why the law has to say – it can, because in Serbia when it says – it can, everyone says – well then it doesn't have to. That's the way it is, and we're all all so bent on it. As for the selection of directors, they are wonderful people, in culture and art, you have to love it, certainly no one deals with culture and art because they expect to be rich after that term, but there are also part of the directors and those who run cultural institutions who think they shouldn't be held accountable. Every director must also be held responsible for his work, of course, but he must bear responsibility for the failures, he must be responsible for financial problems in those cultural institutions, for the thefts that have been happening lately, or I'm revealing them, and they happened and they happened two years ago, for the conclusion of harmful contracts, etc. We need such directors, who are professional, who know they are doing their job and are willing to bear responsibility for any failure they have made, as ministers must bear responsibility for their work before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the vaccine, I join the invitation to ask all citizens of Serbia to understand that it is extremely important to vaccinate, to protect their lives, to protect their family's life and their environments. We saw how many artists we lost last year, exceptional artists, and they weren't vaccinated. We need to understand this, that it is important for us all to be vaccinated and that we are one of the few countries in the world and in Europe that have put artists as priority professions that need to be vaccinated. We did it, and so we also managed to open theatres, galleries, museums, to work, and by that we were recognized in the world as one of the six, seven countries that made it work. Thank you, and once again, I urge all citizens of Serbia to make sure they are vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6005	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6006	Thank you. I'd like to answer to the previous speakers, I've remained in debt for some information. Mr. Vojislav Vujic, who made the proposal to our celebrated basketball coach, I would like to say that every suggestion is welcome and that we are opening the process of amending and supplementing the Sport Act and that we will consider this suggestion very closely in the next period. I would like to point out that as a responsible ministry, we have approached the solution and that problem. Through the work of the Ministry we have launched various programs and projects, which aim at free sport for young people, especially children. We are very proud through the School Sport Project, through the SOFA project, through the possibility of funding all kinds of programs and through youth programs and projects that all of our youngest citizens can play free sports. We are aware that this is not enough and through the reconstruction of sports halls where we are trying to restore the physical halls to new sports props and we have managed to replace the interior of these halls in 250 physical halls to motivate as many children as possible to enter the sports system. Today we are aware that all our efforts are not enough to introduce more children, to allow children to be able to play sports more accessiblely. We want these actions and to strengthen, but also to contribute to better development of the sport system in the Republic of Serbia in a more concrete way, although we have top results. I thank the Single Serbia parliamentary group for supporting amendments and additions to the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports. It means a lot to us this support, especially because in their ranks they have a folk MP who was a European champion, vice-sampion of the world and a scholarship from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We believe that when such one support comes from their side, it means very much for the entire work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I would like to thank the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians for supporting the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports. Dear People's MPs, Mrs. Christmas, thank you for the detailed analysis of the proposed law and for considering those most necessary changes, which is the education of the youngest, children and all in the system of sports. In the next period, we will invest even more energy and strength to educate as many athletes and players as possible in the system of sports. Since 2014, we have introduced a mandatory education of all athletes in all alliances. So today we can already say that we've informed the system of sports a lot, because sometimes it's not an evil intention, it's an uninformation of athletes. I can tell you from a personal example, that you are not fully aware or informed that all medications, medications are on the list of illicit substances. That's why you're sometimes deluded by perhaps the wrong counseling, but also by ignorance. Just looking at always good circumstances, i.e. Well-willed athletes, we entered the education program to inform as many players as possible in the system of sports. We are aware that through the education of children and the youngest in the earliest age, we can do the most when it comes to education and prevention. As I said in my opening presentation, we are proud of the ageing education and the opportunities for students, high school students and founding students to share that knowledge with their peers and to convey the importance of not taking doping and the importance of justice and equality in society as a whole, even in the system of sports. In this way we want to integrate the synergy of the entire society, we want to work on all segments of our society, from the earliest age, to the third-time people, to draw attention to all those negative phenomena in the system of sports, primarily negative phenomena in the field of doping. We feel that from the earliest days we need to teach our children and thus educate society as a whole. We also increase responsibility through the synergy of the work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the work of the Anti-Doping Agency of Serbia and the Union. As I said in the opening statement, we want to just increase the responsibility of all alliances and pass on this one pressure and responsibility to them that it is necessary to deal with athletes, that it is necessary to educate them, that it is necessary today to think about the future and take care of their athletes. Because, as through the scholarship of all our athletes, as through education from their earliest days, we take care of all their programs, all their wishes, and then for a reason we can admire and pride ourselves on the results that are record for the system of sports and for our country. I join the appeal when it comes to vaccination. Serbia has set out to vaccinate athletes among the world's first countries. By the International Olympic Committee, we are commended and taken as an example for other countries how necessary it is to vaccinate all citizens, especially one important area that has a great, powerful impact on society as a whole, and these are athletes, because we know that athletes are truly idols for all generations. This way I want to appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated, to take care of our health, and to know that the only way out of this global monster is a scientifically proven vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6007	Thank you, Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's MP Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6008	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as I have been in my previous presentations of instructions, for me as an artist, and I guess only the currently politically engaged citizen, is extremely important every day in this high house and every session where we have the opportunity to discuss issues related to the culture and art sector. Today, I address as an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group and thank you for the confidence of the SPS Parliamentary Group and the opportunity to speak exactly as an authorised representative in the debate, in which there is a roof law on culture and its changes and additions on the agenda. My fellow Members will further analyse the other laws on the agenda, and I personally want to focus closer on the amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, which systematically and fundamentally needs to settle different issues of exceptional importance for the culture of the Republic of Serbia, the functioning of cultural mechanisms, but also on helping those who, by this law within the culture sector and functioning, are institutions, institutions of culture, but above all, individuals, cultural workers and artists, those who are largely cultured and who create. I must stress that it is very important that you, dear Minister Gojkovic, will not mind my expression, you are extremely involved in your work, in every positive sense, and as you can conclude, you have the support of the parliamentary groups. Since we've all gotten the impression that you've been trying hard to protect the interests of culture, I hope that, and I want you to work with your authority and to extract a culture from lethargy that's been in the past few years, perhaps decades, but that from the thrifty, as well as the hands of the finance minister, you can extract and employ in the future significant funds for the culture sector, which would probably go to the competitions, which I'm going to talk about in more detail in my presentation and talk about. Just as an artist, I think I have the right to speak of culture from the first person, from my own personal corner, because here, in this high house, I have entered, as someone who knows firsthand, what in reality the life of artists, creators and cultural adversaries look like. Fellow Members of the world of art and culture know what work and effort it is. There's a lot of work, learning, perfection, tremor and dilemma, blisters and bloody fingers than practicing failed attempts and ideas, but all of this together creates an individual artist, a cultural apron, with which the lives of all of us become more fulfilling and more quality, and if perhaps we're not all always aware of it. With every painter, musician, player, writer, poet, knight and their works, our everyday life gets a sense of color. Just today, we said goodbye to the great Milos Shobajic. We're losing artists, but their actions remain, for the eternity that we must preserve together, the smart decisions we should make here, if we may have once been careless towards them and perhaps not respected their work, leaving them in the wind. I will again say “arsa long vita bravis” – art is long, life is short. In order to look back at the roof of the Culture Act, it would also be meaningful to move away from the general places, where each discussion of culture usually comes down relatively. Analyzing the proposed amendments and additions to the law, I noticed that, as extremely important, several of them stand out. The first concerns competitions for funding or co-financing of projects in culture, in the sense that the deadline for calling the competition from 30 days from the day of the budget is changing to 60 days, which, according to the promoter, should be assisted by the Ministry of Culture in the procedure of preparing the competition and the necessary documentation. It certainly is a good change, given the potential lack of human resources in the ministry itself and the scope of the job, which is meant for the launch of such important competitions. Last week, we had a budget rebalance on which through the third aid package, citizens were provided with grants to independent artists in total of just over 230 million dinars. It is certainly clear that by economy, we cannot measure ourselves with one rich German who has provided as much as 50 billion euros for the recovery of culture and the creative industries from the crisis, i.e. 1.55% of its GDP, and per capita where it was around 602 euros. When the summation aid that we have defined as a state for culture in order to mitigate the impact of pigs of around 3.8m euros, not counting the additional 83m dinars that were adopted yesterday, this is all divided by the head of the population, we come up to 0.54 euros, which is about a thousand times less compared to rich Germany, and which is not subject to logic in the reciprocity, given that our GDP is approximately 100 times less than Germany's GDP, but not a thousand times smaller. Such statistics worry and call on everyone together as a legislative and executive authority, but as a society, we also set a course for culture and cultural policy. In my last week's rebalancing presentation, I made a proposal, and at that time the finance minister was present, to potentially provide for a new package of measures to help prevent and recover from a crisis which, instead of grants in the form of minimumers, would be allocated to artists through a potential second round of competitions of the Ministry of Culture in order to help and initiate creation, in addition to concrete financial assistance, because we must bear in mind that to a large extent creators function in co-operation with their talents and creations and the process of creation, they need in addition to their basic existence and the elimination of existential fire. Which the aid granted can in some ways provide. Since I have touched the budget rebalance of 2021, I cannot help but look back at increasing the financing of the culture sector and reaching a long-awaited 1.01% for culture. In my previous relatively short parliamentary activity, I have been persistent and perhaps boring when the topic of strengthening culture financing is at stake, but as I have already cited, as someone who speaks from the first person when talking about artistic action, I think that this 1.01% is just a good start of the pursuit of the final definition that culture is on a pedestal on which and deserves to be a book of progress in the sense that the spine and the ham of the natural process must return to the margins of society from where they came from, and that the central places in our daily life take the right values, positive selection and extraction of all the intellectual capacities that we have as a society. I'm sure I don't have to stress further that it's important that the percentage achieved in culture should not be reduced and that this percentage should only be higher, that this increase is not just presently because, to one percent, it was painted by certain increases for the film creation sector, finally going to Hilandar monastery, a loan for culture infrastructure and assistance to independent artists, which together represents extremely important things. Our economic stability achieved by responsible policy, we need to pay attention to culture and thus reach countries in the region by giving to culture. Reminders for the sake of the North Macedonia stand out 1.23, Croatia 1.76, while Montenegro has defined 1.34% for the culture sector by 2020. When we talk about grantings per capita, we must do everything we may not have done so far, in order to raise the amount of 15 euros per capita that we have allocated before the rebalance and potentially reach the countries of the region, given that northern Macedonia per capita for culture is 27, Montenegro 36, Croatia and Hungary about 40 euros. I would remind myself that we have recently voted in this high house for a cultural infrastructure loan which represents a great opportunity to renovate certain cultural institutions and provide them with working conditions, but in order to meet the programmes and contents of local self-government with sufficient resources to finance these content, I would like to suggest once again that, in the context of loans and international agreements and the sale of bonds, additional funds would be provided through, for example, a fund for the survival and rebirth of Serbian culture, allow for the functioning of all cultural activities. At a time when the whole world is struggling with the crisis, when we are building hospitals as a state, we provide vaccines and solve important political issues, maybe a proposal for a loan of about 50m euros sounds ambitious, but if we are aware of the importance of the presence of culture and that these funds instantaneously lead to an increase in culture per capita from 15 to 23 euros, that amount would be a real step in the right direction. These funds could be defined as competitions by the Ministry of Culture for Culture projects and programmes of cultural institutions, training of Serbian cultural centres worldwide and art programs of Serbian artists in the world, scholarships to study talented artists at prestigious universities of the world and especially to activate the work of cultural and sports sections in some 1600 schools and two thousand separate departments in order to culturally describe children and young people with means provided for teaching or outside teaching staff. Someone will say that the funds for the culture sector are enough, that only distribution and fair distribution are questionable, which is certainly important, but given that I have touched the topics of competition that have been amended and complemented by the Law on Culture and Covered, I must point out that, through the analysis of the results of the competition, from 2017 to 2020, so for a period of four years, I have determined that the same number of applications for the various activities of contemporary creation and competitions in the fields of cultural activity for children and young people has always been two-thirds, and that care and three-quarters of projects have been rejected. Reading the Commission's explanation, I came to the conclusion that the projects that were rejected were not all less valuable financing, but the commission stressed in the explanations that the funds had been limited somewhere and that the allocations could only cover a number of projects, which would make it difficult for the ministry, the commission, but also for the people who report their projects, because it directs them to seek alternative funding funds where individual projects and manifestations never see their light of day, are not realised, although they may be extremely high quality. By choosing social justice, that's why I put forward this proposal which could be the next package of cultural assistance at the stage when we may be late for prevention, but to mitigate the consequences of the covid, we may not yet be. It is good that cultural institutions have a smooth funding of their regular monthly costs. It is good that they function and maintain programmes in pandemic conditions, but it is all unfortunately the state of hibernation that will pass, and when it passes, we must be prepared to move quickly forward and help and encourage further development of culture and art. Although cultural funding is not on the agenda, I had to point out that part that is necessary for the functioning of the sector, in addition to the very important changes to the roof law on culture, and as regards the competition that I have already mentioned, as well as the next amendments and additions. The amendment that provides for the registration of institutions in the APR registry instead of the Court of Commerce should allow cultural institutions to have equal status in all other bodies, which gain legal personality status and makes a logical proposal for the Court of Commerce to be disbursed from this type of obligation, and for institutions when establishing or changing, the process speeds up and facilitates. Furthermore, the amendments that provide for the change in the structure of the Management Boards and the Supervisory Boards of Institutions in terms of fixing the number of members with the attached amendment to the Government, to include members of national minorities in committees, should contribute to the balance of the functioning of the Board of All Institutions at the level of the Republic. Changes concerning public competitions for the selection of cultural institute directors are important for the reasons given by the promoters, because of the transparency that competitions must have, but also because of sanctioning, more specifically not allowing potential abuses when it comes to the function of directors, we testify ourselves, are performed by performers above all legal time limits, which in practice works of cultural institutions that must monitor contemporary cultural developments and continuously lead to innovation, can lead to stagnation and failure of their role in society. The Act on Culture recognises an independent artist as a bearer of the general interest in culture, since independent artists participate in creating cultural heritage with their own work, and therefore the change that treats the payment of contributions to pension, disability and health insurance is extremely important because it will create a commitment to local self-government to reconcile their obligations that have so far been only at the level of options and has left the possibility that local self-governments do not settle this type of obligation equally, which has created how dissatisfaction with artists who have the status of independents, obtained by representative associations but also ineffectiveness in the realization of ideas that should essentially encourage the creation of independent artists. Today we are talking about the Law of Culture as a roof law that needs to systematically regulate this sector, but in addition to the culture development strategy that is also covered by the proposed changes, the law itself represents some kind of strategic definition of the state towards the development of culture and art and those who culture in reality and produce. In this respect, the proposal to adopt a cultural development strategy for a period of 10 years in the Government is potentially a good proposal, if we take into account the practice that a large number of strategies in the Government have already been adopted, that the adoption process is simpler and more effective than when the document is adopted in the National Assembly, as the law has so far provided, and if we take into account that the executive authority is the one that has to implement and implement strategic definitions, and all of this provided that a fundamental public debate has previously been conducted in as many environments as possible, including the professional public and all other stakeholders, while respecting quality and meaningful proposals. What may not be foreseen by the current Culture Act, and you yourself said that you wished maybe a completely new law that would be modern and modern, is a potential provision to protect Serbian language and creation in a way that makes it compulsory for radio stations and televisions to play, for example 40% of Serbian authors' music and vocal-instrumental numbers in Serbian, respecting, of course, the rights of national minorities, something that would be similar to Tubon's law in France. In part, cultural and artistic amateurism includes not only folklore but also amateur theatres, ballet groups, amateur choirs and other forms of cultural and artistic amateurism, which are covered by law only in terms of allowing space to work within local self-government. All of the above can be covered by potentially new changes or potentially a completely new cultural law. The further amendment of the law deals with a very important topic of the National Council for Culture. According to the current law, the National Council numbers 19 members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, cultural institutions, representative associations and other institutions, as well as national minority councils. According to all the rules and logic, this highly advisory body, because of the nature of its role it should have, must be independent of either legislative or executive authorities. The Council is designed as a body to advise, think and propose strategies and directions of action when it comes to the culture sector, a sector that is of national interest to our country. Since I have not been involved in the previous selection processes of the Council members, I cannot judge them as procedurally complicated or inefficient, but what the proposed amendments and amendments to the law bring is the amendment of this very process, more specifically the proposal of the members of the Council, which provides that the Council, in its potential future form, numbers 11 members, which are proposed by the institutions of republican importance and the institutions set up by the Republic. Proposed to amend the proposed Article 16. The Law on Culture – their proposals cannot directly deliver representative associations of artists, which was previously the case, is practically an exception to an independent cultural scene from the process of selecting members of the Council and, consequently, their participation in the work. I personally notice the inequality of the proposed changes and changes that are being viewed in that the law continues to treat representative associations as an inseparable part of the cultural mechanism, as evidenced by the register of representative associations which have been granted representative status from the Ministry of Culture. In this register there are 34 representative associations that have been functioning and protecting the interests of artists for decades. Some of the associations have lasted for a century, such as ULUS and UDUS, as a legal follower of the Association of Artists of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, both founded in 1919. The treatment of representative associations as indivisible from the cultural and state apparatus is also seen in the fact that, just through the registers of independent artists who are running the water associations, they pay and regulate how to mention contributions to pension, disability and health insurance, but also, as last year, a package of measures to help independent artists in order to prevent and recover from the crisis caused by the covid. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Information over the past two days, where we have requested clarification of the mentioned Article 16 concerning the participation of representative associations in the process of proposing members of the Council and its further work, representatives of the Ministry have presented an oral clarification of the amendment of Article 16, which is indicated that the representatives of the representative associations will not be excluded, but will be excluded by the institutions, the institutions of the proposing institutions of the proposed Article 16. The Culture Act can be included in its list of members' proposals. Since the same is not stated in the attached explanation, it is not specified in Article 16. The law on culture can potentially and does not have to be respected, because the obligation as such by law is not determined by the proposed members of the Council, which in practice can really exclude the representatives of an independent cultural scene, and therefore I suggest that there be a potential for an adequate modus to be found in Article 16. The law in the National Council also included representatives of representative associations and thus the number of members accordingly adequately and increased, if necessary. Given that we are talking here about the National Council for Culture, a highly independent advisory body that should represent the right thought hand of the Ministry of Culture, a body that needs to realistically look at the currents of events both domestically and on the world cultural scene, a body that should contain only exceptional, using all the intellectual and creative capacities we have, we must ensure that, with positive selection, we come up with a healthy critical thought that should always have a higher goal, which is the progress of our country in every sense. However, the Government's amendment to which the election of the Council and its jurisdiction is returned to the National Assembly is, I personally believe, a proper reasoning on the role and purpose of this high advisory body. They're going to let me paraphrase Claude Debisi who said that art is the ones that make the rules and that the rules aren't the ones that create works of art. Therefore, this extremely important roof law of the culture sector must also be in synchronised with cultural mechanisms, individuals, institutions that create and maintain culture, must facilitate and encourage work and create artists and be created for a higher thought, a higher goal and a general good, which culture in its essence is. At the very end, I want to believe that ex post mind and consciousness, that means in a culture in one society, will lead to the realization that culture must not be the last hole in playing so that we can say, even at times of economic crisis, priorities in building infrastructure, or huge health problems in the form of pandemics like this. All of us who make decisions, we always think that there is time for culture, in some better coming days, putting it, perhaps picturesquely speaking, on the spare bench, we need to think carefully about the long-term consequences that society will face, because the consequences, both indirectly and directly, may affect not only the cultural level, and education of the nation, but also the economy and the consequent standard of living, the position and reputation of our society, and the countries in the world community of states and people. Of course, I have already mentioned to you that we, as MPs, MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, provide absolutely every support, solid as misery and fortress, for every kind of constructive proposal that can help improve the culture and art sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6009	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a culture minister, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6010	Thank you very much for your discussion and for supporting these changes and additions, as a single step, to improve this law, which is full of disadvantages. Indeed, I have not dealt with this law before, but one provision of the law is not related to the other provision of the law, so I can interpret these amendments and additions, as well as possible existing corrections of the situation, but we need to pass a new law on culture, in the near future or in the future, it is totally irrelevant if we have the capacity to work. What's fast, obviously it's not good, so we don't have to set some deadlines, it's important that we all agreed here that we need a new law on culture and that it's important, although a year or two ago, the government adopted a cultural development strategy, in some way, we would have to commit ourselves in a completely different way to this strategic document and bring it in a completely new and different way, adapted to this time. When you read the culture development strategy, our country's culture strategy for some period of 10 years, you see even different manuscripts. I see a few teams have been working on it, let alone, but I will refrain from criticizing the document this time, but as far as I'm talking to people and factors, and MPs, cultures in our country, I've never met anyone who's said they're completely satisfied with the culture development strategy. The National Council for Culture, I say, for this, but he matated in law, obviously he couldn't work the right way, nor could he be chosen. You must be chosen first to fulfill your purpose. We had a public debate, but I can see it as one ignorance, a desire to say something ugly about the amendments and amendments to the law, not that it really contributes, so it was even an observation -- by not having the Assembly, we've corrected it, but what the Assembly won't choose the National Council, you're making it impossible for us to criticise you. That can only be said by someone who has never read the provisions of the law, which are the tasks of the National Cultural Council. It's not just a matter of you giving a speech and saying it's the ugliest thing and it's your contribution to the development of our country's culture, but the National Council needs to do something else and it's defined by Article 17. If these proposals are not proposed, and these are mainly institutions of the culture of the Republic of Serbia and the National Councils and the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Mother of Serbs, someone wider than one of their natural environments, then they will say a lot, give us a picture of the time in which our cultural institutions live. But we'll make it right anyway. We have to do whatever doesn't pass the test of time, we have to be aware and admit some of our mistakes and do something new. In addition, parliament does not have to vote on that list that we will have, or individually, each candidate proposed by these proposed applicants. The National Council should analyse, give an opinion on the state of affairs in culture, give suggestions on creating cultural policy, proposals for development and improvement of cultural activities, give an opinion on the proposal for a strategy for cultural development, propose criteria for gaining the status of prominent artist, culture experts, determine the status of prominent artist or expert in culture, give an opinion in the process of awarding cultural creativity, give suggestions and suggestions for regulating other issues in the field of culture and inter-resorship cooperation, science, education, urbanism, international co-operation, perform other tasks in accordance with this law. It's not an independent body. The body is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and makes proposals, suggestions, opinions, views of the Ministry of Culture and Information, thus also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Being independent means something completely different, but we can work things out. National cultural advices everywhere in the world are imagined completely different. Imagine what would happen to our country if we applied the French model. There, the President of France himself wrote who are members of the National Council for Culture, and it works well and does not attack anyone, because he is elected by the citizens of France and thinks he has this political power and the power to propose himself in his own way and to see who will be a member. We have and we will have the process of choice. I believe in the institutions of culture that in the right way they will approach this issue, that they will give us several serious candidates, respecting all those conditions that they will have to respect when calling for me to approach this election and that we will have a relevant body that we do not have for a long time, to carry out their competences under the cultural law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6011	Thank you. The word has the deputy Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6012	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected and respected citizens and citizens, there is no greater joy than when we talk about culture in this House. There is no greater joy for the country when culture goes well, there is no greater joy for citizens when they recognize that culture is a priority in the development of one society and one state. I'll tell you a short story from the beginning of World War II and how it talks about what's on the agenda today. So, when, somewhere in the beginning of World War II, German Luftwaffe's aviation began to hit London with bombs, then Prime Minister Winston Churchill called the government and ministers to see what to do and where to find the money, where to take the money for the war budget and to finance the British defense. One minister hastily said: "Here are all the pounds that are intended for culture we can take, so we can switch to the war budget. “ Churchill answered the question, and it was, in fact, his best reaction – what will we defend if we take money from the culture budget? It best speaks about what culture means. That's when Churchill knew, too, we all know today what culture means, what it represents for one nation, nation and state. When we make culture irrelevant or what our people would say - the ninth and last hole in the music, there is nothing to defend or defend everything else. Cultural fluids from the beginning of civilization to today make us who we are. Culture in the broadest sense means both literature, art, architecture, customs, letter, language and all that is really our identity. I believe and there is no doubt that it was probably Churchill's mind when it was thus protecting the culture by actually protecting the identity and debt of a nation. Culture is a much wider concept than what we often observe, even from what we are talking about today. I am very glad that this topic is convenient for us to talk a little bit more about culture, I was looking forward to the Minister and when other cultural laws were on the agenda, I am also looking forward to this government, and it seems to me, after a decade, that it has allocated more money for culture, which is extremely important and confirms what I have said so far. Culture is a much broader concept, and it's not just an exhibition, or cinemas, theaters, and everything I've already mentioned, culture is much more than that. It is also the way we live, it is the way we treat each other, culture is the way we think, culture is, if you want and what we want for ourselves, and what we want for others, culture is “to keep the cow's neighbors alive and healthy,” if you want to, what replaced what was in our people until then “let my cow die, but let my neighbors die too. ” It's all culture. What we're talking about today is conditions to create an atmosphere where we're going to build up everything that I've stated, that culture in some broadest sense is. Culture, if you will, and patriotism of the most species, is culture and homeland. Let us also remind Rhum's verses: "The House defends itself with beauty, honor and knowledge, the homeland defends itself with life and fine education", these are eternal verses that also speak in their own way about exactly what we should cultivate and how important culture is in every single person's life. So when we talk about amendments to the Law on Culture, the most important changes concern the formation and selection of members of the National Council for Culture. A reduction in the number of members from 19 to 11. We see that among the promoters there are no associations that were before. I believe we'll discuss all this in more detail when we talk about the amendments. In the light of the Law, it states that the reputation of the National Council for Culture is very questionable and I believe that more attention will be given to this body in the future, because it is actually a question of how active we have been and how much we ourselves have dealt with and given attention to this extremely important body that must and is tasked with taking care of the development of culture and to carry out and act advisoryly on what the Ministry decides as priorities when we talk about cultural development. It is not easy, Minister, to correct everything that has not been done in some past period, when we talk about everything that has been the task of the Ministry of Culture. It's a good thing you're passing more and more proposals from the public debate from law to law. I also think, when I say it, it's extremely good and important that you adopt a proposal from a public debate and have observed the arguments that the Parliament rather than the Government should choose the National Council for Culture. The second major change concerns the Culture Development Strategy. My personal opinion is that the Culture Strategy should also have been left to the Assembly for adoption. I don't think it's a bad solution that's now passed on to the government, I just want to share my thoughts on it. I don't think it's by any chance that someone once decided by some act of law that exactly the National Defence and Security Strategy and just, imagine, only the Cultural Development Strategy is being adopted in parliament, and all the other strategic documents, as the Minister also cited by the proposed changes, in the Government. I think that's precisely because these two issues are extremely important for the survival of a country, so culture and national security and defence. So that's my personal attitude. I respect the arguments made by the Minister, i.e. which are also in the explanation, can also be believed that the application of the strategy will be much more effective when it comes to the Government, because we are witnesses, and this is the minister, as the President of Parliament in the previous meeting, knows best how slow and complicated the assembly procedures are sometimes, so I think I also respect the argument that the Government is adopting the strategy, because I believe that in practice it will show that its application will be much, much more efficient and that, of course, the strategy will be adopted both in time and much faster than it has been the case so far, and not only in the field of culture but also in many other areas, we have witnessed that we are often behind the adoption of strategic documents and action plans etc. What is also important and what is a big newspaper – the introduction of a register of cultural institutions. Since legal status, or legal personality status so far, has been obtained by enrolment in the court register, it is extremely important and absolutely, if I may observe, and in accordance with the law we talked about, the Law on Museums, which we talked about at one of the previous sessions, which also provides for a private initiative in the establishment of museums, so I think that generally a very good and important newspaper is the introduction of a register of cultural institutions. And for the end, but no less important is the change in the deadline in which the competitions for co-financing of projects in the area of culture are being explored. So far, it's been 30 days, a flexible 60-year deadline gives more than enough space for everyone to come up with, to be even more creative than ever, and compete for some of the projects of the Ministry of Culture, which the Ministry of Culture is funding or co-financed. So another change is important, concerns taxes and contributions from independent artists. It is another additional incentive for free artists living all over Serbia to wake up and become even more creative. That's how I think it's stimulating, if you want, the measure, looking at the circumstances we're currently in, I mean the pandemic of the coronary virus. The Law of Article 3 states that 30%, when we talk about candidates for national councils, and it was even considered, I would personally like 40% of the representatives of the less represented sex, 30% is also something that will one day lead us to 40%, up to 50% and by the day when it will not be an important quota, but the true quality and skills of the candidates, so if a woman is more successful and has better qualifications, she will also get that position. When we talk about submitting a report to the National Council on Culture, we will see in the days when we talk in particular about this law, whether something is going to change and whether there will be any amendments when we talk about submitting a report to the National Council Assembly, since the Assembly will still choose that body, I think it would be logical then to submit the National Council for Culture and Report to the Committee on Culture and Information, that is, the National Assembly. I know and I said that in one of the previous cultural discussions, I'm not sure that you were there then, Mrs. Gojkovic, but I know that the place of the culture minister in society is what our extremely demanding and difficult position is. It requires both patience and flexibility and passion and belief that it is possible to improve through culture, put culture into priorities, in which you have achieved some success so far. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, gives you full support in achieving the goal of making culture truly a priority for all priorities, when we talk about Serbia's development and the development of democracy in our country. What is also very important for every commendation is co-operation with the Ministry of Education, because to get to all of this that I have talked about in my presentation it is also important that since the start of the educational process, therefore, both from kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, etc., that cultural content and culture become acquainted with children through the education system in the broadest sense. This type of co-operation and synergies between the two ministries is crucial, there is no progress without culture and there is no progress without a good education system. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports this kind of synergy, as well as in the voting day, will support the law we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6013	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6014	I agree with you on the less-represented gender, that it takes 40%. That's what we did at the Assembly in the last session. That's why there are more than 40% of women here in parliament now, but we've waited and we'll wait for you to first adopt the Law on Gender Equality which, as far as I know, predicted 40%, so we'll agree, because there will be more laws in the field of culture and we'll put that change right away. So, my next appearance, there won't be any public debates for one such small change, and we'll fix it very quickly, but on this board of directors of five or for the national council of 11, it can be calculated by 30% and 40%, which is the same number as the total number of board members or national council members. A strategy adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia for cultural development by 2028 has never been confirmed here in parliament. This act ended with regard to the Strategy proposed in the past composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's got to be a new one. I think this strategy is too general, because you now say - we have to implement, but read, please, one more strategy as to how much one general act is and how difficult it is then to determine in which directions as it should be implemented. It's one problem with such large and general acts. In my capacity as minister at the beginning of my term, I gave some strategic direction of 20 points what the minister thinks this name and last name should do, in which direction to improve the state of culture, and it seems to me that I am fulfilling within this short period of time, but when someone gives such a general text, then you find it difficult to rule matter. Perhaps the minister who insisted on such a strategy would have done it in a different way and managed to do it. I'm a person who prefers certain specific provisions and I hope that we will succeed in such a strategy and write with joint efforts, including with the National Cultural Council. I think something missed you or me. Article 17 speaks of the National Council being elected either by the National Assembly or by the National Assembly, a report on its one-year work has not changed, since it has also remained a provision for members of the National Council to choose the Assembly, so that all the provisions relating to the competences of the Assembly have been returned to the National Council. I don't remember ever having been President of Parliament for six and a half years, that in six and a half years we were reviewing the reports of the National Council for Culture, or that we got it on the Committee. I ran the board for a while. There was so much inadequacy, and then I don't know why anyone thinks that old thing was good whenever we touch it, the old one had some form, but no content. I hope now that we will get both form and content adequate and that we will have some work results that are expected from members of the Council, regardless of what is to be an eminent, significant name from our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6015	Thank you. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6016	Thank you. I'll do my best to be brief, so other colleagues can arrive, since we've given the session a time-share. So, we understood everything. It is precisely my observation about when we talk about the National Council for Culture, whose reputation is very questionable, which is also in the explanation, my question was about whether or not we contributed to the lack of activity ourselves, because, the truth is, we never, nor did the National Council send it, so we couldn't even discuss it. It's just that there was really everything and everything. I absolutely agree, when we talk about the strategy, that it's a single document. I'm sorry, I know there's gonna be a lot of trouble. In fact, it may be in some sense for you, knowing you and personally, a great challenge to make an action plan and implement that strategy as best as possible. So much and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6017	Thank you. We're moving on to the short list. The first person registered for the word is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6018	Thank you, Your Honor. This morning, the culture minister said what a merger between the three ministries is -- that we have a united debate. In addition to saying that it is courage, I have concluded that there is another much more important thing, which is that it is three key resources that drive the country to progress and prosperity, because without an economy as a lever that supports both culture and sport that gives these top results, we could not have these results in the country that we have today. Also, another real commendation for the Minister of Culture is that today we have experienced the first time that one minister thoroughly looks at all the shortcomings in his portfolio and is ready to correct all of this to make it any more quality and to provide the service he provides to the state, but also to all those who belong to that spectrum of interest as much as possible. Of course culture is something that is above all other values on which our society is built, and I would say that it is also one of the main joints and differences that make up our society. I'm going to give an example that happened, I think, 110 years ago. The anniversary of the event, which meant great prosperity in the country, is an example that in 1911, sometime before this great Orthodox holiday, Bogdan Popovic, at the invitation of the Croatian queen, published the first Anthology of the newer Serbian lyric, which came out in Zagreb, to show Croatian readers all those values and qualities of Serbian culture and tradition. This anniversary was one of the milestones in the Yugoslav or regional frameworks for the reason that in addition to quality poets, Popovic, one of the most significant perhaps adversaries in the culture of the first half of the especially 20th century in Serbian society founded some of the basic quality criteria, so he said that, for example, in the criteria of the song, the songs must be all beautiful, and I would extend it to this that culture must be all beautiful, because in fact the true culture that combines, which permeates the qualities of others, which is built on the beauty that produces goodness, and out of that goodness is born nobleness among all of us, or all generations. Unfortunately, because of all the shortcomings we've had since the 1990s, our culture on an individual agenda in individual corners has yielded top-notch results, but in this system plan, it's had these ugliness of that beauty, and I'm saying that primarily given the various lobbies that involved in the decision-making system whether a project, whether a cultural event, whether an institution should get systemic support. I think these gaps in laws were precisely for these reasons, and these current changes seem to me to be moving in the way of such lobbys, such interesting groups that have captured the development of culture in our space and in our country, and cultures without freedom, creation without freedom, thoughts without freedom of thought, can't actually be. So this systematicization of the National Council of Culture, and especially this section relating to competitions, are extremely important, so that all those people who have been outside these lobbies, outside these stakeholders, the talents, especially among the younger ones, are given the opportunity and opportunity to realize their ideas about creative achievements and conundrums and to re-until those lasting values in the cultural sense that will survive both our time and our space, such as this anthology and this poetry, which in its anthology 110 years ago, Bogdan Popovic did or which he chose, overcame all the challenges of time and remained one of the key books for understanding and understanding, not only of time or of Serbian culture but of the whole of that space and became one of the special, let's say, motives for further creating the identity of culture in this common area and soon and the common state. So this time of merger, I think, is crucial and should work as much through culture as possible to ensure that these ideas that have been put through the political discourse on reconciliation, on dialogue, in fact through culture and cultural projects can achieve the best and best and the longest results, as they have seen in the past of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6019	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6020	Thank you. I support all MPs in the discussions on culture and I understand the importance, because it is truly the identity of a nation, but in the end I must take advantage of this time, since it is already the end of all discussions, to explain to you the little importance of the laws of those we propose. You must understand that these laws that we now propose are so important that the economy of Serbia would not exist if you did not adopt them. Simply, 700 accredited laboratories exist in Serbia and without these laws, no company, no entrepreneur could work either, and I may probably not be able to give 300 million to work further with culture. So you have to understand the importance of the law. I support every law, every respect, every minister in particular and my colleagues, but you must also understand the importance of being MPs who are the laws most important to this country. When you vote, and when you think about it, keep in mind that without these laws, Serbia's economy is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6021	Thank you. The word is made by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6022	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, on today's agenda, in addition to all the important laws of the economy, from culture, we have, in my opinion, as athletes, one of the most important laws, which is the Doping Act, and we know that some athletes bow down and unfortunately use various means to achieve the best results in sport, but it is not clear to me today that some so-called. politicians use lies as a doping tool to achieve the best results in politics. For example, these days we have Marinika Tepic, who is doping with lies, opening up various cases without witnesses, without any evidence, thinking that this is how she collects some political point. It must be known that only by working and honest pawning results are achieved, that you can't even come to this tall home by putting a foot on the other one, by taking that old saying – until it's dark, it's dawned on me. That's exactly what she's been doing these days and wants to undo everything that Dragan Markovic Palma's been doing for years, working both for Jagodina and for Serbian citizens. Now the question is raised, since they say they have known something for 11 years, but you've been silent, the moment they started talking, and that's the moment when Mr Markovic, as a national MP, but also as a citizen of this country, asked a very cultural question – does Dragan Gilas have that money or doesn't have that money, did he pay taxes or did he not pay that tax? Every day we hear from other colleagues about this huge wealth of Dragan Gilas and the question is, how did he get this huge wealth, did he find any oil fields, did he dig up a pot of gold? Let me tell you, from all I've mentioned, the question is, who is being protected by Marinika Tepic, is she defending imaginary victims or on the other hand defending the wealth of his boss Dragan Djilas? We will only fight against this with the truth, because we believe that time will show that it is on our side and that I will return to sports and to the honourable Mr. Minister, Mr. Udovic. I know that you, Mr. Widow, like me, as someone who comes from sports, when we say doping, we can say that the story of doping is about as old as sports itself. At the very beginning, food was manipulated, various grasses that allegedly extended the endurance of athletes, even in ancient Greece being a winner meant everything, because they were not second and third places, but who the winner was seen as a god. When we look at the newer age, and when we say doping, the first doping association is our athlete Lance Armstrong, who, from the symbols of an ordinary man, persisted and defeated everything that came his way, came to the most hated athlete on the planet. Lance was, by the way, the best and most successful cyclist in the world who won a life battle, beat the cancer, and after such a situation, he started to compete, to become a symbol of a new hope, to become a symbol of victory over cancer. He even founded a foundation that raised money and helped children with cancer. All the good he did in his career didn't help him clear his name. He also won seven titles of the Tour de France, which were taken from him. In 2005, he retired from sports, so in 2009 he returned to sports when he was discovered to be using doping. On the question of journalists to the World Anti-doping Agency – that all those years did not discover that he was doping, they replied that it was the most sophisticated, successful doping program the world of sports has ever seen. He otherwise used pills given to people suffering from anaemia, to increase the number of blood cells that contribute to increased oxygen in the blood, which is most important in cyclists because pain is delayed and maximum effort is prolonged. Why do athletes bow down and start doping? Is it because the audience always requires more than a athlete, or is it because the leadership that runs sports requires athletes to give their maximum and when they can't or is it too much of an ambition for athletes to be the best, although in one fair way, by training, by giving up and all that professional sport requires, they can achieve? So, basically a sportsman chooses whether he wants a harder or easier way. I can talk from my angle, as a athlete, that I've always been advocating, that the result is yours, that all you get is a message for all young people who want to play sports and that's why you can't fake your ability to be first, second, third, fifth. It doesn't matter where we go. It's important we do sports. Several times in the discussion, Mr. Minister, in the Assembly, you and I have just pointed out how important it is for young people to engage in sports, starting with school sports, starting with kindergarten. We've got to get the kids into the sport. Not that everyone's the best athletes, that everyone's into professional sports. It's important that we do sports. That's what we have to do. So, from little legs and even sports from three years to 83 years, everyone has to deal with it. You as a minister in the last few years, this is your second term, you've approached this problem as a real athlete because you've been through the entire system of sports and you can see that. And you can see that support you have from the government, because in the budget rebalance a few months ago, we got a million dinars to help the sports alliances, which is certainly good. Many sports infrastructure facilities are being completed. That's all a good message. You guys are into sports. When we talk about doping, I have to touch something that got me as excited as a sportsman, which is that the Russians are forbidden to compete as a national selection in Tokyo in 2021, as well as at the World Cup in Qatar. The whole situation with Russian athletes has some kind of chronology. For example, in 2014, German television broadcast a documentary saying that as many as 99% of Russian athletes doped, until 2015 when Russian athletes were banned from competing at the World Athletics Championship. You, Mr. Minister, and I know what it means for a sportsman to perform with his flag in a competition, and that's the positive doping that gives you a desire to win without any stimuli, because the best stimulant is when you hear your country's anthem in the contest or you bend your country's flag. When I mentioned Russian athletes, I can't even mention the criteria for American athletes, where he is, for example. The State Department guarantees that they are clean, that they are not doping. Now, these double arches are unfortunately well known to us in Serbia. We have long felt what double arches mean in both culture and sports and politics. I think that the Olympic movement may have lost what the meaning of real olympicism is and has become a polygon for instructing political malversions. It bothers me a lot as sportsmen. I'd like to present a very interesting situation that might best show what doping means in sports and how much it took, and that's the situation from 2010, when the battle between two world boxing champions, Floyd Mayweather and Manu Pakjau was canceled. First, you can see the seriousness of that problem, as I said. Two boxers were supposed to have a match in January 2010. They were both supposed to get 40 million dollars per match. The organizer himself was supposed to get $200 million. The match was canceled because the fighters couldn't agree on the way to doping control. In fact, Maveder demanded an Olympic way of control, which meant random blood and urine checks during the preparation process, while Pakja refused saying he was superstitious and that taking blood was weak and wanted to be controlled by the state commission of Nevada that only required urine analysis before and after the match. So they agreed on money and everything, but they couldn't agree on how to carry out doping control. I wanted to briefly commend you as Minister and point out the importance of sports, and on the other hand, to say how unfortunately doping may have changed the real and real picture of sports in the world. Certainly, Unique Serbia supports the work of the Ministry of Sports and Labour and the results of all our athletes and in the voting day we will vote for all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6023	Thank you. The word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6024	Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is known that some athletes have used stimulative means since the old age to date to achieve the best possible results. In today's world of sports and despite rigorous measures aimed at preventing doping in sports, doping scandals involving some of today's greatest sports stars are rocking. Doping first and foremost endangers the health of athletes, and to a good extent raises the regularity of the competition itself. In these facts lies a lot of justification for taking action to prevent doping in sport. On this plan, sanctioning which can be a sports, criminal-law or criminal-law play a significant role. The commercialisation of today's sport concludes that it is illusory to hope for the disappearance or drastic reduction of doping in sports, primarily because of the fact that manufacturers and users of doping are always a step ahead of doping controls. Therefore, sanctioning should play a secondary role, while the main and decisive fight against doping in sport should also be defined by the world anti-doping code on a preventive plan, in which education would play a major role. The plan should be directed towards coaches, athletes and medical professionals. The most important reason to consider amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports lies in the need to bring this law into line with the basic principles of the new world anti-doping code and the most important provisions that these principles personalise. We in the SDPS firmly stand behind the view that sport must be an oasis in which the promotion of protection and preservation of human health are imperative, so we will gladly support this law. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture, they aim to improve the functioning of public institutions of culture. I'll look right back at article one. For some time now, it has been a practice for the adoption of the budget for the following year before the end of the current fiscal year, which represents enough time for the founders to be left with a longer period of 30 days, i.e. 60 days to call public competitions. In this way, adequate conditions will be created for better quality preparation of complete documentation for public competitions, which is at the very end of the line of interest for interested entities and participation in them. I don't think this dynamic is bad, but it should be kept in mind that a large number of cultural events that are projected are held in the first third year. I'll set an example. Amateur theatre festival of the Zlatibor district is held in April. Then, in May, a festival of amateur theatres is held in western Serbia, which is held in Prijepolje, and then all go together to the festival of amateur theatres in Kula. All these festivals are related to each other, they are related to dates and as someone who comes from the municipality of Prepolje, one small environment, they can tell you that this festival of amateur theatres means a great deal to us, and that this is a cultural event that, during several competition evenings, a number of fans of this art gathers together. It is therefore important to support the ministry so that the festival continues to live and be even more successful. On this occasion, I would also like to commend the Ministry of Culture and Information's initiative that even smaller environments can compete for the capital of Serbia's culture. You have encouraged less environments to design projects and compete, thus raising the quality of cultural life in their local self-government. So Prijepolje with its cultural institutions, events and cultural and historical monuments has a chance to find itself as the capital of Serbia's culture. Otherwise, Prijepolje entered a tight circle in the allocation of funds to the competition "Towns in Focus", which is very important to us and we expect the results of the competition. I hope the Ministry recognized the desire and will of cultural institutions to make a shift in the field of cultural life in this environment. Competitions for co-financing of programmes within the fields of theatre, music and art work are under way. I hope that the results of the competition will also allow Prepolje as a small environment to have a rich cultural life, because the Prepoljes and how they can appreciate culture and enjoy it. We especially expect the Ministry of Art Colony "Mileseva", one of the oldest art colonies in Serbia, as well as support in the field of fostering Bosniak culture and tradition. Not to be, dear minister, that we are only expecting the support of the ministry, I want to use this opportunity to invite you and your associates to visit Prepolje, to get acquainted with the work of three successful cultural institutions such as the home of culture, museum and library "Vuk Karadzic", as well as cultural events that are traditionally held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6025	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists, do any of the authorised representatives want to speak? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. We'll continue at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6026	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask questions. The statement by the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare the answer for a maximum period of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are also applied accordingly by not allowing replication and indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file charges. I would like to welcome Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, with members of the government and move on to asking parliamentary questions. The word has the life of Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6027	The Honorable President, respected members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Unique Serbia asks the question of the Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Deputy Prime Minister of Gender Equality - why did the authorities not respond to the official note of Vračar police station regarding the statement by Ivo Gilas of 7 December 2014, in which Ivo Gilas, former wife of Dragan Gilas, made claims about the violent behaviour of Dragan Gilas towards her and members of her family? In that official note that my colleague Vojislav Vujic will share to you, it says that Dragan Djilas attacked his wife, his ex-wife and her mother, that his father, Ivo Djilas, had come down to separate them, that Dragan Gilas had knocked him on the floor and hit him with his hand or fist closed. The note says that a month earlier, Dragan Gilas threatened his ex-wife, Evey Gilas, in words - I'll cut your head off. Did the institutions not react perhaps because of a sentence found in the official note saying Dragan Gilas was coming down the stairs after the event, told someone - call the police. Why did he call the police? Did the invitation want to exert its political and economic influence and pressure on the authorities not to respond to the whole event? A unique Serbia asks, but also requires, that the investigative authorities respond according to this event, because we believe that violence against women does not go out of date as well as genocide? Now, this woman-rights fighter, and in fact a proven bully against women, is taking out Marinika Tepic, is making a press conference with a false witness and hiding faces and scrambling his voice. We thought they were hiding it so it wouldn't reveal that their activist is party, which he is. However, we have learned that this man is a criminal who has been arrested six times, convicted, who, by order of Dragan Gilas, broke into RTS, not to object to media representation, but probably to resell the seconds of the Public Service and earn millions. Such people, Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic, place their backs on the press conference on their party's second birthday. The difference between Dragan Markovic Palma and Dragan Djilas is that Dragan Markovic Palma himself went to the prosecution to seek, demand and insist on acting according to the allegations by Marinika Tepic, who someone has well learned not to file a criminal report because there is no evidence, because it is all a lie, could be responsible for false reporting. While Dragan Gilas has an official note, there is evidence, there are victims, there are witnesses, and there is no response. My question why?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6028	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6029	Thank you. I think the topic you've launched is extremely important for our society, so we understand each other right away. For this official note made on 7 December 2014 at the Vračar Police Station, I never heard of it, never saw it until it appeared in the media. To tell you the truth, I'm shocked that I've also seen Mrs. Eve Gilas' statement and the whole incident, and that the authorities haven't responded to this properly, certainly not in the right way. I think we should investigate that. As Prime Minister who is certainly not only for the region, but also for this part of Europe, has set an example of gender equality in the executive government, since today we are as a country, one of the best ranked countries in the world, by the participation of women in executive power, and we are proud of that. As Prime Minister who just last week adopted a Strategy on the Protection and Prevention of Violence against Women, the Protection of Women and the Prevention of Family Violence and Partnership Relations. Also, as Prime Minister who adopted last week the draft law on gender equality that we have referred to you, the honourable Members of the Parliament, to the Assembly for consideration and I hope that we will soon adopt it, I must also say that my government and the party from which I encourage or which I am a member has zero tolerance to violence against women, family and partner violence. What I've read is not just violence against women, this is violence in the family, here are attacked and older people, unfortunately, here is the abused woman even when she was pregnant, as she says in her statement, and it's all terrible. Why this hasn't been talked about before, I really don't know, and I'm sorry it didn't. Also, I think Mr. Gilas owes us some explanations and some information and owes our entire public an explanation of this incident, this official note, because ultimately, this must never happen. When this kind of thing is done by public figures, politicians, presidents of some parties, it's something that I suppose should serve as an example to their members, followers, sympathisers and others. I think that our entire society has to condemn this in an unequivocal way, and I think it should be examined why this was in some drawer on the Vracar, and what we as a society with these things should do, especially because it's about influential, extremely influential public figures that set standards and examples for some population in our country. Indeed, I am shocked and deeply sorry for what Mrs. Gilas had to go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6030	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6031	And I'm shocked by the contents of this official note. If the bows of faith are proven to be damaged here, these stores of Gilas produce the markings of multiple crimes. So I don't understand how this official note didn't find the epilogue in the criminal proceedings either. Anyway, we'll examine all the circumstances of this case and we'll let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6032	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6033	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Madam Minister. The whole attack on Dragan Markovic Palm is nothing more than the beginning of the political campaign between Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic, which was joined by numerous other quasi opposition politicians, such as Sanda Raskovic Ivic, who openly lied about the Honorary Consul, Professor Veraldi. Today, through his translator, Alexander Basarić, we came to a letter, and here we have the original, and we have the letter sent by Mr. Veraldi, Ambassador Goran Aleksic, in which he denied that he had been led by any girl, that he was alone in the room and that there was nothing like it. In his letter to Dragan Markovic, he even says he is a person with very strong ideas and hosts. Otherwise, by Mr. Veraldi, Biserka Jakovljevic, director of the Centre for Social Labour, serious woman, married woman, mother of three adult children, so that everything that Sanda Raskovic Ivić said is nothing more than a disgusting lie and that it is part of the dirtiest political campaign in the history of Serbian multilaterals. Of course, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić will have to prove it in court. I ask Mrs. Sandu Raskovic Ivić, who was then an ambassador to Rome, why didn't she then write an official note about the event she was talking about, which she claims was? Why didn't she report the case to the state of Serbia she works for and swears so much? Or perhaps at that moment, she may have been intoxicated by Roman squares, fountains, mondenian life of Rome, so she didn't have time to deal with the work she was paid for. All the vultures quickly threw themselves at Dragan Markovic Palm, although they knew everything was a lie, including Vuk Jeremic whose expenses during his trips simply cost Serbian citizens dearly. Imagine that in front of the media they accused Ratko Stevanovic, the mayor of Jagodina, a 78-year-old man, Peter Petrovic, who is 70 years old, of being led by girls, family people, hosts. I can't say anything but terrible. It all started with a simple question, not only of Dragan Markovic Palma, but of most of you here in the National Assembly, most MPs, the question addressed to Dragan Gilas – did he really earn 619m euros and did he pay his taxes? Just that, nothing more. Since there is no answer, my next question to the government and the minister of justice, the police, the president to you, did the state authorities start dealing with this case regarding millions of Dragan Gilas and how far did they get with this case? I think as MPs in the Assembly, we've said everything about it and that the authorities would have to react to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6034	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6035	Thank you. I can't say that it was as terrible to me as the official note because it wasn't, because nothing can be as terrible to me as this official note and what apparently Mr. Gilas was doing to his then wife and family. He really can't. But what Mrs. Raskovic Ivić has done has once again shown me how many of them or that part of the opposition don't care about the reputation of our country and the reputation of foreigners who love our country and respect it enough to be honored consuls, if on the other hand the scale of that scale says that they can possibly put a political threat to any political indifference. So, when I read that statement by Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, the right to tell you I had hoped somewhere, although I respect Mr. Markovic, that it was true, because it was amazing to me that someone could say about a foreigner, our honorary consul in that country, such a lie just to manipulate the public in the Republic of Serbia. But then I read the first denials, it was the denials of the Embassy of the Republic of Italy in Serbia, which said they had nothing to do with it, that they had nothing to do with it, and that it was absolutely not about their diplomats, and then there was the denials from the gentleman who was our honorary consul which was amazing. I will tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorary Consul is a citizen of that country, so that is the man of Italy who promoted the interests of Serbia, who was involved here by our former ambassador to Italy, involved in a political affair that must be left to the authorities to investigate and to show in fact who was doing what he was doing, who was saying and who was to blame. I really hope that the authorities will do this quickly and efficiently. But a man who had such respect for Serbia came into a position after a few years to defend himself because his name was put in that context by the former ambassador and to say -- people, that didn't happen. It's a shame for our country and for all of us, even though I didn't do it, and you didn't do it, none of the people's jobs here, none of the government members, none of the ordinary citizens. Can you imagine now what the family of this man thinks of Serbia, what Italian diplomats, Italian citizens, think when something must be denied by their embassy and by a man who was the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Serbia. It's a scandal, really. So you're throwing under the truck the reputation of your country, your country, just to accuse or falsely accuse one of your political insolence, I mean really hard to see in the Republic of Serbia again. Now, there's one more terrible thing for me, and it's an insult to all the women in Jagodina who perform any public function, or they're employed in local self-government, or they're employed in some public enterprise, or any local function. Because we had one person, also a woman, who said that all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, were eventually written, all of them, came to work, or their functions, through fun, I think they said, or whatever, but we all know what she meant, hanging out, I don't know. That's why all those women, all those women, said they were worth nothing, that they didn't have morals, that they didn't care about families, that they weren't able to do anything else, but I guess they were through fun and that so-called. Hanging out at work. Now, that's fascinating, devastating, truly devastating to me. How does each of these women feel now? So, anyway, I think it's important, it's extremely important, that this case be resolved very effectively, as well as the case of physical harassment, or the physical attack, on Mrs. Ivo Gilas and her parents that December 2014, because I think we all owe it to our society. But, however you look at it, this really is one sad episode, and the only thing that can save us right now is our institutions, which I absolutely believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6036	Thank you. The word is Mr. Starcevic, in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6037	Dear Prime Minister, I agree with you that the JS has strong faith in the institutions of this country and we support and demand and demand from the institutions of this country that, in all of these cases, it is for the fastest and most efficient possible purpose. I also agree with you that the terrible official note and the situation that you've been talking about is the terrible situation of all the women employed in the public sector of Jagodina, because we wonder how they react not only to these women, but also to their husbands, their children who go to school. Imagine that Dragan Markovic, who is also a son, whose mother-in-law listens to the news, who is also the father-in-law of two sons-in-law, who is also a grandfather of five grandchildren who are also schoolboys, who go to high school and elementary school. They're playing with human destiny. This is the most disgusting and filthy, lowest possible political campaign since there's been a multiparty system. The Pharisees of the political scene Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Vuk Jeremic, etc., in their political senselessness and impotence, are not in fact opposition to the current government, but are becoming an opposition to Serbia and Serbian citizens. They are political pests that do not know anything else, except to sue and attack the country in which they live, for some possible coming to power, complaining in European and international institutions and constantly tripping the Republic of Serbia. They forget that Serbia was left before bankruptcy, and they ignore the fact that Serbia today is a leader of economic, political in the region, that it is a factor of stability in the region. But I have said what I have said many times in this assembly, and here I am now saying: Dragan Gilas, you are broken, the people will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6038	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6039	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, is my question for the entire government, and it concerns a situation in which, as I understand it, you have adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, as well as a draft law on gender equality. These two laws, besides being in serious conflict with our Constitution, are primarily because they are opposed to Article 43. A constitution guaranteeing freedom of religion and Article 46. A constitution that guarantees freedom of opinion. First of all, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is a law that is an amendment to the 2009 Law. That's why I often resent my SNS friends to continue politics: "The European Union has no alternative", because they have a whole set of laws that actually introduce transgender ideology into our legal system. This is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Thanks to the 2009 law, we had already had a situation that scientific workers and experts who dealt with not hate speech, but by analysing certain social phenomena were discriminated against and placed in court. First of all, I think of Doctor and Professor Miso Đurkovic, the Government of Dimitrijevic, Ristivojevic of Novi Sad, I mean Milan Brdar, they were all subject to a new form of thinking and persecution. So, by continuing these laws, we are actually returning a totalitarian system to Serbia and bringing the whole country into a situation that tomorrow various NGOs will be able to launch actions against people who do not speak hate to people of various gender orientations, but only in scientific terms, in an ideal position, to criticize this concept. As for the Law on Gender Equality, it is also very problematic from the corner of our Constitution, because we have the Law on equality between men and women, not gender equality. The gender is not known in our constitutional and legal order, especially when we put it in the context of what will come, and this happened 10-15 years ago in the United States, in the European Union, where in countries such laws have been passed, then transgender ideology led to its absurdity and chaos in which these countries are now located. So you have people who say they're transgenderly capable, in the sense that they want to be people with disabilities, and then they submit to various self-injurements, and the legal framework can't react to that. Then, you have transcribing people who say that even though they're 66 they want to be 46 years old because they're working on better status. These are all the cases that happen and those countries that we look up to, that lead to chaos in one legal system. Because you know what, when you're talking about male and female sex, you're talking about objective medically established things, and when you talk about birth, it's primarily a subjective feeling, and that's what transgender ideology is based on. So my question is, are we, through this system, a set of laws, actually going back to a verbal delinquent and are we in any way introducing transgender ideology, which is essentially totalitarian and chaotic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6040	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6041	I'll tell you in a minute. So, no. I don't know where you got all the conclusions from the proposal of these two laws. I'm surprised, none of what you said I didn't read in the drafts of those laws. These laws are fully in line with our Constitution. These laws are fully in line with our society and our openness as a society. I don't think there's really a single reason to think that way about these laws. Of course, those laws will only be on the agenda of the Assembly, so I wouldn't interfere at this point in the debate. You'll have a chance, of course, to talk to the details of both bill proposals. Indeed, again, I think deeply that they are in line not only with our Constitution, which I know they are in harmony with, because ultimately all the instances within the Government of the Republic of Serbia have passed, which check that all the laws that the Government proposes are in accordance with the Constitution, but that they are deep in the spirit of the tradition of our people, which has always been open and tolerated, which I am truly deeply proud of. I haven't, I don't know, seen all this chaos in these societies, and especially not in their judicial systems, so, I don't know, I may be thinking about different countries, but I haven't seen any such chaos in justice systems. And what you're talking about about the laws, I didn't read it in our laws, or certainly not in our proposal. You as a MP, of course, will have the opportunity to make amendments to both of those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6042	Thank you. Mr Glisic has the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6043	It's about the fact that I'm the Law on Gender Equality introducing this story to transgender ideology. As a result, for example, parents who did not want to treat their underage children with names that correspond to their subjective feelings were recently arrested in Canada. So it's about a father who treated his daughter like a daughter, but she thought she was a boy. So, I'm not talking about the people who performed the surgery after medical expertise, for which various medical experts have concluded that they have a problem that needs to be solved in this way, but I'm talking about the subjective feeling of a minor child who, under the influence of transgender ideology, has decided to be considered a boy now. It can be a phase in the development of a child, it can be a relationship between a father and a daughter in a mother-daughter conversation, but the problem is that the state has interfered and that man has been arrested. So, ten to 15 years ago, they passed a law like this, which then looked like Bennigan, but they ended up in it. Then, you have another thing going on and it's already in the sports world famous, and it's something that's very dangerous for women's sex people who participate in women's sports, because now as a subjective feeling of a man who can have 200 kilos, that has a musculature that he has, that he says he feels like a woman, he enters that sport and then wins, and not only wins, but he inflicts serious physical injuries on women competitors who can't legally fight it, because he feels like a woman. Let's not talk about caricature situations, let's say women's toilets are allowed in by men who feel like women. It now looks ridiculous and looks like we don't respect this home and the seriousness of this home and the institutions I'm talking to, when I say it, I think of you because I respect you as Prime Minister, but it really isn't, it's the chaos that's about to happen to us and that's already happening there. We have a problem, I know that the political decision to go to the EU is not from this government, but it's been a continuity for 20 years, but I think it's high time we stop acting like it's the only side of the world, in the sense that it's the only civilization step that we're going to do, the moment we look at that civilization step falling apart, everything that looks like marriage and family, where these catastrophic things happen, and ultimately, it happens to steal 74 million votes in the election, so it happens that the president of that state can't talk in the media. So it's no longer a better part of the world in many things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6044	Prime Minister Brnabic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6045	I'll answer you one more time, really clear. So it may be so in Canada, it may be such a law in Canada, but it is not really a law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the National Assembly and according to the law that we have proposed, which you will have the opportunity to see and, of course, to debate it, is not something like that in the bill. I really don't know what the law is in Canada, but these examples that you state and if the law is passed, so exactly in the form in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia referred it to the Assembly, something like that won't be possible in the Republic of Serbia. You may not have read the bill carefully or read it at all at this time. Indeed not, nor is that the intensity of this law, nor are we doing it because of the European Union. Let's get back to this previous question. So, I think the issue of gender equality, equality between men and women in our society is an important issue for our society. Even though we had a Law on Gender Equality before this, that's not what happened. This is now just an additional promotion of this legislation. You know, we still have in our society cases that a woman like that. Marinika Tepic, tells all women in a Serbian town that they are all employed through "association and entertainment" and practically tells them that they are worth nothing more than that. I really think we need it because of people like Marinika Tecic, Dragan Gilas, who beats women, beats her own wife, beats her mother, I don't know how else she harasses a woman in her own party or her environment, I don't even want to know, I want the authorities to know that. You know, I think that, unfortunately, we are still a society where there is a need to improve this legislation somewhere. But this law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is equally protected by men, especially in those areas or professions where there are more women. You know, that's equality again. Again, I am proud of my country of Serbia, because I think we are progressing very well and without any legal frameworks I think we are one open, tolerated society, a lot of respect for each other. Unfortunately, we have examples like we saw in this official note. We also have examples of Marinika Tepic who accuses all women of getting to the post or work with some methods that are for me, I would never have thought of such a thing. Unfortunately, we have examples like that. So believe me, Your Honor, what you're talking about in the bill, neither this anti-disciplinary or this gender equality that the government adopted as a proposal nor sent to the Assembly, is indeed not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6046	Thank you. The word is Mr. Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6047	Just for a little while. I don't think we had a law on gender equality, we had a law on equality between men and women, that's the point. So no one has a problem with equality, equality is fluids and our society and our people. People who have fought for freedom always respect the equality of every man and know that these things respect, especially since there have been a lot of women in our historical struggle who have made a huge contribution to this fight, both culturally and on every other, and even militaryly. In any case, it's not an idea of equality, the problem is the idea of gender equality, because the insertion of the term "born" is an ideological flossula that comes to us from those countries that end up with all of this that I've been talking about. As for specific cases, I think that Mrs or Miss Tepic is also part of this idea concept, how much I followed her political work. Personally, I, as a lawyer, would never be able to deal with these issues lightly, because in any case, when such topics are opened, all the facts need first to be determined, and only then to go out with the convictions, because the consequences are catastrophic by any side that is in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6048	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6049	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Prime Ministers, my question was addressed to the Prime Minister and Minister of Environmental Protection Irene Vujovic, as regards the removal of the non-sanitary "Statvine" dump near Prepolje. As long as it has arrived in the recovery of the non-sanitary dump "Stavine" in which we are now in the phase, when can we expect that there will be a functional regional sanitary dump "Banjica" near Nova Varisha, is it sanitary dumps or cell transfers or something third, and will the "Deep" dump at Užica be able to service the municipal needs of nearby local self-governments? So these are some things that interest citizens and citizens from where I come from, so from the Sanjay municipalities and the Zlatibor County. What has been achieved in Prepolje is a generational matter and I, as a citizen of Prepolje, someone who lives in Prepolje, want to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, but also you, too, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Resor. I think it's one generation thing we all have to be proud of. I'm asking this question for the citizens, but also for the public, because I see we've been doing a lot of environmental work lately. This is proof that much better lives are being made and I will remind you that in 2009, 2010 and 2011, the main theme was whether we could pay our salaries and pensions from the budget. Today we're talking about ecology and that's something that's very good. I'm glad the citizens can make their position clear in the protests. It's proof that we live in a democratic society. The second question I ask, is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Tomislav Momirović – when will the construction of the Raška railway – Novi Pazar start and when will the design of the railway and the merger with the Belgrade-Bar railway begin? When can we expect further reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line and when can we expect reconstruction of railway stations? So railway stations are about every city's ornament. However, they have now been brought into a state of complete ruins, and I think that's something we should pay attention to. There's no economic development without highways and no railroads. One part of the Sandzak municipalities has a railway, however, it is necessary to reconstruct the railway. We'll agree that it's a shame that a big center like Novi Pazar doesn't have a railroad and that's one injustice that we urgently have to correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6050	Thank you. Minister Vujovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6051	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, first of all, I thank the Prime Minister for giving you first a review of the situation concerning "Stavine" and Nova Varoš, the transfer of stations, therefore, what is important and for pointing out again that "Stvanina" is one of the first results of the ministry and I can say that all the energy we have invested in it now we can see the results. We all know it's been a decades-long problem we're solving right now. So, "Statins" today as they look, you probably had a chance to see. Many of you who live in the area or pass by, it is already evident that the works are near the end and that is what was very important for us to do within the agreed and scheduled deadlines. So I can say that 60% of the work is done. Drain layering is in progress. Also, after that, there's greening and shaming. So, the completion of the work is scheduled for June 15th, though they assure us it will be sooner. Certainly June 15th is not far for such a large project and the recovery of the entire dump. What's your second question, and it's definitely about "Stavine" is building a transfer station in Novi Varosha. We also talked at the beginning of the year that we would transfer funds to the government, to build a transfer station in Novi Varosha, and that was done, in addition, the value of the works is 91 million dinars, and the participation of three municipalities is 20%, so Pryboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoš. I can tell you that the contract signed right after the holiday is going to take place and the duration of the work will be 150 days. This transfer of cells is of paramount importance, first of all, that will be relieved and the Priboj in which all the waste is currently being applied, and indeed thanks to everyone for understanding, above all to the citizens of Priboj, but immediately after the construction of the transfer station, in Novi Varosha, this problem will be solved. Transfer stations are also a prerequisite for building a regional centre and a recycling centre, which are the centres planned to be built through the European Bank's credit line for reconstruction and development, and at the last meeting with the IBRD, it is agreed to divide these projects into two stages. So in the first phase, it will be Kalenić, Valjevo, Duboko, Užice, Sombor and Banjica, Nova Varoš, given the readiness of the documentation, which is already being worked intensively and which is at the end, which means that these four regions can also begin their tendering at the end of this year, so in the fourth quarter. Certainly, within 150 days, as I have said, the transfer of stations will be completed, and then a tender will begin for the regional centre, specifically for Nova Varoš, and it will in many ways facilitate the situation. So, the whole part of Serbia, when it has a built-up regional station, will be controlled by waste management.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6052	You want Mr. Tandir? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6053	Thank you, Minister Vujovic. I'd just like to ask you, you mentioned three municipalities, to plan the fourth municipality, as planned from the beginning and the municipalities of Sjenica, they have some problems with their liquidity, but I hope that with the support of the Ministry of Finance, that problem will be overcome. My next question would be the minister, in the next bloc, I expect Minister Momirovic, as I have received my word, answers, I will ask further questions from Energy Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, as it is announced that it will be at the session, as regards the construction of HE Brodarevo 1st and 2nd in Lima, near Prepolje. Whether this is foreseen by a general urban plan and what the ministry's position is, given that on both sides of Lima, there is a protected area. On the one hand, we will protect the area of the Stone Mountains, and on the other side Ozren and Zadnik. The local community was not informed, 10 years ago, we had an attempt to build and it did not occur, because the local community took the view that the project envisaged was not adequate, that it would violate the absolute identity of the area, although it is important that everything the Ministry eventually plans, so that the local community would not leave room for political speculators, which in any way can abuse the subject. The next question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture. I'm curious to know how the Ministry can help cattlemen, who, as a result of the pandemic and the closure of hotels and restaurants, have not sold their throats and large and small cattle. So this problem is expressed throughout our country, but I'm talking about the problems of cattlemen, especially from the Cave and from Zlatar, the municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin, Nova Varoš, because we have one and winter and summer season, which has completely failed, the hotelers, or hotels have been closed, and restaurants and these are not the quantities that we can export to world markets. Also, Montenegro was closed last year, and these are people who supply hotels and restaurants. Now, not only have they not sold their herds, but they've left their herds, they've got to buy hay, they've got to buy cattle, and they're in a fat minus. We're talking about helping the economy, seeing what kind of package of measures we could take here in the Assembly, adopt and help our farmers. From the minister, I also expect an answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6054	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6055	Thank you, Mr. Tandir, for asking a few findings. Some I'd agree with, some I wouldn't agree with. Some of them seem a little incomplete to me. He was on his way from the railroad. That's where you said the railway stations were pretty devastated, that they weren't invested in them, that they were once a symbol and a synonym for grandioseness, for progress, for the future, that they were now quite abandoned. Unfortunately, I have to agree with you in some way. Simply, the railroad has been abandoned for decades. The railroad was killed, devastated. It would hardly have been like this until a few years ago until someone really tried or seriously ignored the railroad, eventually it came into some situation that she was in a few years ago. I would remind you that still some things have been done, and some things are currently in the construction process that will fundamentally change the railway and we will never return to the situation that it was a few years ago. We are currently building the fastest and most modern railway line in Eastern Europe. It refers to Belgrade -- Novi Sad, as part of a future Belgrade-Budapest corridor that will be a train track of 200km per hour. In half an hour, you'll be coming to Novi Sad. All railway stations will be reconstructed on that road and that's what's already done. It'll be over by the end of the year. This is really going to be one big change in the perception of the railway in Serbia, because what I'm talking about right now is something that we in the government can hardly imagine. I would remind you that on the Belgrade-Bar track you are talking about, or Belgrade-Vrbnica on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is already a reconstructed section to Valjev. You today have a truly one quality track up to 120 kilometers per hour, to Valjev which is currently, to say, the most complete, the biggest occupation there is, but the people of Valjevo no longer use transportation in that area, or every day some people who work are going on a train to Belgrade, going back, that's a completely different story, thirty six compositions have been bought in the previous period. Of course that's not enough at this point and we're in the process of getting more compositions, but I mean, some things have already been done. With our European partners, we are doing projecting, and by the end of this year we will begin the work of the railway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. You sent the president to Brussels after a difficult negotiation. He agreed, or was promised a 700m-euro grant or to be precise between 650m and 700m euros, which is the biggest grant a Western European country has received in decades. When they talk about the way and perception of Europe towards Serbia, they need to know that. No country has received as much grant as we were promised for that railroad. For example, Croatia won about 300m euros for the Peljesac bridge, Bosnia for the highway significantly less. Europe has recognised us in a way that will grant us the largest grant in the history so far for the Western Balkan countries. You said about the Raška railway – Novi Pazar. It has certainly existed in strategic directions that have existed for decades. You're well informed, that's something we're seriously thinking about. As you know, I think it's fair to repeat this, we are aware that New Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, and then, of course, Priboj and Prepolje deserve a much better traffic infrastructure than they had in the previous decades, so now it's done New Pazar, Tutin, a highway that hasn't been reconstructed for decades. The president has said it again today, and we've talked about it in the past few years, and we're determined to go to the construction of the Požega-Boljara highway. It's a highway that will completely change traffic for the people of Novi Pazar, first of all from Sjenica, and then of course for Ariel, Ivanica, Požega. Simply, what you have now is a highway that passes through a large number of inhabited places you will be able to reach Požega, Čačka, Belgrade, then Užica in an incredibly faster period of time. We've had really good quality conversations with Chinese partners in the past. They originally gave us some traffic projections with smaller projected speeds. We asked it to be a highway where it would go over 130 an hour, or 130 at this point, and that there was an option in perspective to go faster. We want the most modern highway and for the citizens of Novi Pazar, for the citizens of Sjenica, for the citizens of Ivanjica and Arilja and I hope that soon we will enter into the signing of the commercial contract, and then enter into the construction of that highway. Please try to think about what has only been done in these five years since the President of the Republic implemented fiscal consolidation. Which is the extent of the highways. How important this is for both Novi Pazar and Sjenica and all other cities. Just think of Cachak, Belgrade where it's been talking for decades. It's a reality today. We've forgotten that for decades we've gone to Chačka through the magistrate's way, people died, the crowds were unbearable, how much things change in terms of traffic communication. As far as the roads are concerned, we've already gone too far and there's no going back. Things are clear, visible, the perspective is clear and I think that every citizen of Novi Pazar as every citizen of Cacak is clearly in what direction Serbia is heading. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, we'll have to wait, but not much longer until the end of this year when people see the fast trains and the fastest trains and Eastern Europe, the most modern railways, then they'll know what we're talking about all this time, and it'll come in turn, of course, and the Raška-Novi Pazar railroad. The new Pazar is a growing city, it's very important to us, we're not leaving it, there's a bypass around the New Market that's not being built fast enough, and the president told me to pay attention to what's going on. If that happens and in the coming period, we will have to intervene as a Republic government and take steps to get into the fast construction of the New Market bypass. I don't know if you've been satisfied with this answer. Thank you, of course, for asking. Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, like all cities in the Republic of Serbia, are part of the plan "Serbia 2025", a plan that will bring this country to a much economic and social level, greater than it is today, and today's level is much higher than where it was five years ago. So please trust me and you'll see how things happen. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6056	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6057	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear People's MPs, I just want to say a few words about the apropo topic you've started, and it's about the crown problem and the problem that arises with the insufficient consumption of lamb and beef. The fact is that in the last 14. 15 months, 16, already, because of the lack of one part of the market, this primarily refers to catering facilities mostly during the last 14 months, and also to some other platforms that were important for the consumption of this red meat, we had a decline in consumption. This automatically leads to a situation where the whole story comes down and the price goes down, and that's what's causing the big problems. These aren't normal situations, they're not normal conditions. Cattle meat even dropped 70%. It's first because they didn't do hotels, restaurants, there was no joy that was most classic, so to speak, the lines that the consumption went through. That didn't bypass lamb meat either. But what has the state done in the last 15 months? She intervened three times on the market through stock reserves or through a system of additional financial support to put this sector in some normal frameworks. You will admit that the time in which we live is not so normal and who would hope that such things will happen and are caused by the crown. I'll just say a few things for the public. In a budget for incentives, almost 70% goes to livestock. It's perfectly normal, because livestock is the most sensitive part of agricultural production that suffers a longer period of time when you have to deal with it and do not immediately produce fruits, especially when it comes to beefing, first of all I think about tow and milk beefing. The situation on today is pretty solid. The price of lamb's live scales is about 260 dinars, which is how much it pleases the market, and on the other hand the price of beef, i.e. live scales when it is in... 2.05 euros, 2.10, plus a subsidy from a state that goes both ways. I don't think that's small. How did we get to that? On the one hand, the state intervened, on the other hand, we opened new export markets. Do not forget that in Karajukića Bunara, together with an investor, we have opened a ransom centre, first of all, for the lambs and from there the goods are collected and sent to the space of Lebanon, to the space of Israel and some other countries, and that is very important. We at times of crisis can solve these problems in this way. On the other hand, we're opening up some new markets, above all, the golf course market, and I think we have good potential here. On the other hand, I'll just remind you of one thing, one oatmeal of sheep is a subsidy of 7,000 dinars, for lambs is 2,000 dinars per throat. These are the most convincing subsidies that exist in the environment, bigger even in the EU. I think these are the ways this country can fight. It wasn't easy, especially in the fall last year and in the winter period. Now, the situation is much better, since I see that the measures are being announced and that they are going to start working and restaurants in a closed area, so I expect only better and better, plus the export capacity that keeps increasing, and I don't think we're going to have any more problems like that this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6058	I thank Minister Nedimovic. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6059	Dear People's MP, I'll only answer your question quickly about the Brodarevo 1 and 2 hydropower plant in Lima. It is a project that has been developed over 10 years by the Canadian company Reservoir Capital, which eventually gave up the project, is an extremely complex project, a project that has not received an ecological license, where there have also been problems and where, in fact, the Republic of Montenegro has expressed its concern about the cross-border impact that these two, not even small hydropower plants, bogeys, medium size, would have had, so each other, if I'm not mistaken, would have taken over the domestic investor. During June, last July, there were public insights. We certainly will not bring solutions without, after all, the full consent of the local population and my request once again is to really include our people at the time when the process requires them, therefore, in public insight, and from the detailed regulation plan and beyond, and most importantly when the study of environmental impact assessment is presented. So we don't know at this point at which stage this project is developing, but I would assume that even if there was a public insight and there was no particular involvement, that it would probably have to happen again, because it was at the time of the crown, so I believe that there weren't many people who could participate, but we will be in contact and we will protect all interests of course of the local community, although I am in favour of diversifying our energy sources as much as possible, because I think it contributes to our wealth, our energy stability, but as we have also said as a government in all other projects, especially energy projects, the environment is in the first place. I visited Kostolac, Block B, plants with the purification of sulfurdioxide, exhaust gases from the Termoelectrica Kostolac B the other day, to show also to remind people where and when the struggle for a healthier environment began, and that was 2014, when Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister and then, despite his weight of the flood moment and the consequences of the flood, the need for fiscal consolidation, economic reforms, then the Serbian government allocated 130 million dollars for the first plant to clean up smoke gases on one of our thermopower plants, and then the fight for environmental protection began for me. Since then, we have invested about 600m euros in these plants alone and are planning additional investments, and in the coming weeks with my team I will travel all over Serbia to visit all those environmental protection projects that have been done and completed, projects that we are working on and projects that we are just going to work on to show really in the most concrete way who started and who cares about the environment, unlike those representatives of the former authorities who respect that concern and indeed, for the environment, unfortunately, they have done absolutely nothing. So I'll be visiting your end soon, too, to see what we have to do with the dump, but also to see what we're doing with the transfer station and what else we can do for Lim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6060	Thank you. MP Samir Tandir, final comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6061	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank the ministers. I absolutely agree, as far as infrastructure investment is concerned, and when it comes to agrarian policy, we are on the same mission. We would not support the government of our party and the parliamentary group if we didn't think the same, but simply, the task of us, the MPs, is to point to problems from our end. We are proud of the high-speed railways, we are proud of the reconstruction of the railway to Valjev, but we are also interested in that second leg when it will reach Priboj and Prijepolje and that railway station in Priboj and Prijepolje is something that I watch every day and then we simply have to do it as soon as possible, as well as the railway to Novi Pazar. I am particularly proud that we have achieved this level of confidence that no secret diplomacy, no non-paipers can endanger the stability of our country and the trust and co-operation that the Bosniak and Serbian people have in both our country and the region, and I think that this is the greatest possible success that we have achieved through the formation of this government and the support this government has and the partnership relations that we have made with the strongest Serbian Progressive Party and that is something that our party's leader, Muamer Zukorlic, is working on. What's the task of all of us and what we've talked about is that in the shortest time, we bring some big investment into Sandzak space, let's see what we can do about this project and the free zones. We have to put extra pressure on our local self-government, because people in the interior, unfortunately, and I live inside, in Sandzak, don't have enough confidence, and maybe even human resources to bring you all the big stuff out, because it's just been the problems that have been pushed under the carpet for years. People just don't believe that there's a government that wants to solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6062	Thank you. I'm sorry, Minister Momirovic, you have no right under the Rules of Procedure now, since it is a final comment. In the next round, you'll have a chance. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6063	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will refer my first two questions to Prime Minister Brnabic, and it concerns vaccinations and ecology. In fact, it is also known that Serbia is among the best countries in the world when it comes to the supply of vaccines and when it comes to vaccination itself. The vaccination process in Serbia is excellently designed and it really works impeccably and there is no regrets there. It can also serve as a model for all countries in the world in which the immunization of the population is best conducted. Serbian citizens have the opportunity to choose between four types of vaccines, so they can choose both the time and place of vaccination, even if they do not register via electronic administration. However, in addition to all this, we are coming into an absurd situation, which is that there is not enough citizens' interest in vaccines and my question, Mrs. Brnabic, is how to improve citizens' response to vaccination? I must point out that my party is the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the last month of each weekend at stands all over Serbia and we promote vaccination under the code "the vaccine worries and doesn't worry" and we have come to the conclusion that the least interest among young people is in smaller places. So how can we motivate people, motivate young people to vaccinate? Is it perhaps a larger number of vaccination points in the malls, in the villages? Is this maybe some kind of more aggressive kind of campaign? Is it perhaps some privilege for the vaccines and will a certificate be introduced? That's the first question. The second question, I have time for environmentals. So it's a top theme in both the world and ours. More and more citizens in Serbia are interested in the environment, and that's good. This country has taken great steps to protect the environment. First of all, we here in the Assembly have passed significant laws - Climate Change Act and a set of laws in the field of energy, then we have doubled the budget for environmental protection, huge resources for air treatment systems have been allocated, water treatment systems are planned. My question is, when we talk about environmental protection, Prime Minister, what will the future energy mix in Serbia look like? What will be the dynamics of energy from renewable sources taking place from the thermal power plants, while taking care of public interest such as nature, land, water, air, and, on the other hand, not jeopardising security and stability in the supply of electricity, not jeopardising investment, not jeopardising economic growth? So how is it possible to find that balance and what dynamics it will all go with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6064	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6065	Thank you. As for the vaccination, I have an interval of 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours in the Republic of Serbia, a total of 2,015,280 citizens were vaccinated, at least at the first dose, which is approximately slightly above 35% of the total adult population. There were 1,462,125 citizens revaccinated, which is about 25.6% of the adult population. We also run that third category immunized, i.e. completely protected, which we count as the number of people who have been vaccinated for two weeks or five weeks in case Astra was vaccinated with a vaccine vaccine. These were 1,261,974 or 22% of the total adult population. We will soon have about 40% of the total adult population vaccinated, which is good, but there are great differences between different cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Far the most successful in vaccination is Belgrade, especially the central city municipalities. In the township of Stari Grad, at this point we have over 62% of the total vaccine population. Belgrade -- the Sava Venac municipality around 61% and Belgrade -- the Vracar municipality around 60%. So it's really much, much more than a republican average. The weakest in vaccination at this time is the Tutin municipality with only about 8% of the adult population vaccinated. After that - Novi Pazar, then Lykovac, LJig, Frog, Meroshina. That's what we're really working really hard at right now, to see both the presidents of municipalities and local leaders, powerful people how we can protect people in these places. It's also a big difference when we talk about age categories. The highest degree of vaccination is in the population between 65 and 74 years of age. In this population we are significantly above 60% of the population vaccinated, which is great because they are a endangered category. I think we're about 64%. We're good, too, over 75 years old. We're here somewhere at this point at 52%. It could be better, but 52% again, if you understand that, for example. 56%, according to all the research, means collective immunity, then that's good. We're far the worst in 18 to 35 years of age, and it takes a lot of, a lot more to do. The city of Belgrade, the government of the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken both the town of Novi Sad and some other cities in co-operation with some festivals, or as popular as influencers are now saying, are now working on a campaign to vaccinate a younger population that will start on May 15th, right after the holiday. I think that's where Egzit and Bir Fest are going to be, so we're working at this point on it. That's good. We decided yesterday at a crisis headquarters session that we were going to open Punks for mass vaccination and within the malls. The first will be TC Uste in Belgrade, and then TC Delta and we will probably open two more in the malls in Kragujevac and Nis. That's what we're working on right now, and we're mass-opening local health homes for vaccination. I would especially like to praise the Bosilegrad municipality today where they really take the medical team and go from house to house and vaccinate the citizens there, and I think that's how we're all going to have to do it, especially in some municipalities that are more dissociative, where there are inhabited places and villages away from the city center, from the city center, but that's our most important task right now. You see, we have an increasingly better, more stable epidemiological situation in the Republic of Serbia. The numbers are constantly falling both newly infected and percentage-positive compared to the tested ones. Most of it is due to vaccinations, and it is best seen in the city of Belgrade where the number of patients falls dramatically. So the vaccination works. I ask people to be serious, responsible, and to go into vaccination. At this point, about 98% of all hospitalized, which we have slightly less than 5,000, 98% not vaccinated. So people look at how numbers fall in the middle where we have good vaccinations, a large number of vaccines and what it looks like in hospitals. Ninety-eight percent hospitalized hasn't been vaccinated. There's no further. There's really no argument that people don't vaccinate. We'll monitor the situation from hour to hour, day to day, and we'll further come up with ways to communicate with citizens and bring them closer to vaccination. As far as the certificate kit is concerned, thanks to the whole process that has been completely digitized, which has really helped us to do logistic challenging work in such an efficient and good way, thanks to this IT system, we are able to have a fully electronic certificate homing. They will be completed on May 1st. Since Saturday, practically, the Republic of Serbia will have digital certificates for all its citizens who have been vaccinated and revaccinated. We worked on it, or we shared our certificates with both the World Health Organization and many countries, such as Israel or Hungary, and I think those countries are ready to accept those certificates. What will make it possible for citizens is that they can really travel very easily and that they do not have to have PCR tests, which will depend on the state to the state, but as far as digital certificates are concerned, it will live on Saturday. Once again, I would like to ask, appeal, thank you for this question, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, now especially at this moment, the younger population, to be vaccinated. We actually have a vaccine to finish this fight and come out as winners by the end of June. At this point, we have vaccines for sure for another 350,000 citizens to be vaccinated. We already have over 104 thousand additional phaser vaccines arriving on May 5th. As long as we have an announcement, over the next week, extra quantities from Kovaks. So we don't have a vaccine problem, but let's really be responsible for putting an end to this, to win and get back to normal life. I am now and truly infinitely happy because we have also received preliminary results from our economy, economic indicators in the first quarter that are much, much better than expected, than was projected. But that's because we were able to get the vaccines and effectively vaccinate our people and that for these first about two million people, we really had people who were interested and couldn't wait to receive the vaccine. If we kept going like this, we'd be putting an end to this by the end of June, we'd be back to normal business and normal economy and normal socializing, hugs, really, and all the emotional things that we miss so much as a people. As for the environment, I apologize for extending a little bit, but both topics are extremely important and extremely complex, your questions about energy mix. So, I said yesterday, what is really symptomatic of me, as you can see, in 2014, really started one systemic concern for the environment, although quiet because a lot of other things were priority and fiscal consolidation and how to get out of it quickly, how to hire people because we had enormous unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and how to repay the extremely expensive debts taken by the authorities before 2013, how to make the country credible for investors, how to fight for the issue of Kosovo and Metohija again at the tables of all international actors, and how to somehow reopen that book that was actually closed and put together somewhere an ad act. But it was working on it, and as much as there was a lack of money in the environment, it invested, and really the best indicator of it is these filters on our thermal power plants, Kostolac B, which is also finished by Nikola Tesla Block A and Block B, which are currently working. Besides this, I'll remind people, one of my next destinations will be chairs. I will remind you of the ecological disaster that took place in 2014 in the Zajaca mine, where lead was poured out, where everything was poisoned both by the country and the water and the people and which, in late 2016, was completely rehabilitated for centuries, so there is no longer this problem. It also says how much people cared about the environment before that 2014 and how much no importance was given to neither attention nor by the citizens, unfortunately, who had many different priorities for themselves again, and much different torment, and not by the authorities at the time. Today, in fact, in 2014, only six years later, this Assembly chooses the Government to protect the environment as one of the three most important priorities. So much Serbia has changed. If someone had told you then that for a government in Serbia environmental protection would be among the top three priorities, people would not believe it. So, so much has changed, and somehow seven years later, not seven years later, Serbia gets and again this Assembly in this assembly you adopt, and thank you for that, the Climate Change Act as the first system law to be adopted in our country, which it has agreed at the end of both the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environment, which is a huge problem, believe me, which in a systematic manner deals with this topic. After that, the Energy Act, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. This is the first time the Republic of Serbia has a law on renewable energy sources. In the previous law, renewable energy sources were only one part of the Energy Act, and it again speaks about how important this is to us and to thank this home for its support and for understanding how important this is for our energy transition and we are going to change the amendments to the Nature Protection Act. So both through legislative activity and through budget and through our activities, we see how much attention we give to protecting the environment. Now, as far as the energy mix is concerned, I'm going to try to be the shortest possible. What's important, our thermal power plants are still our security. So we have these coal reserves, unfortunately, lignite is not the happiest solution, but we have what we have. And they give us this so-called. "base", basic capacity, and without it, we can't even have much more renewable energy sources because you have to balance them. So in these two things, we have to be really very careful how we continue to run our energy policy. And as many people think we don't need thermal power plants, I have to say to myself again, I am one of those that goes towards green energy rather than to thermal power plants. For the responsible state, you must have these capacities as basic or base capacities. You also need to think about energy security, not to be a net importer of electricity, that you are also trying to keep the energy sector such that it is also an incentive to further develop your economy, but not to be burdened at the moment when we are at some stage really very rapid development, not to burden even the domestic budget of citizens. All of this we have to consider when we're making an energy mix, but I'm going to tell you that we're going to see even more renewable energy sources, diversify both gas sources and gas corridors. Let's go, which is very important, and we're also thinking about electricity, heat energy and transport. What I was talking about, electricity in terms of thermal energy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has really very ambitious projects, projects where you have replacement energy, where we transfer, especially in those cities, municipalities that are most polluted, such as Koserić, such as Kragujevac, such as Užice, such as Valjevo, where we close the system of central, or remote heating to lubricating and coal, we switch to gas, in some cases and bio mass. Of course, in a transport system where we're already giving subsidies to buy electric vehicles, but we're putting electric chargers on our roads, we're seeing that with "Serbian Roads" we have as much electronic toll collection as possible to reduce this wait at the toll stations to reduce pollution. So we have one comprehensive approach to energy and the environment. It's a complex question, but believe me, we're doing our best to preserve our security and stability, to be in the function of our growth and development, but to continue to protect our consumers and to really open this path to green transition. Excuse me once more for the long answer, but there were complex questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6066	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6067	Indeed, I want to thank you for your answers to both questions and other questions and to say that it encourages the fact that the number of people infected by the coronary virus is slowly dropping. It encourages the fact that the state has devised vaccination campaigns and I think it's the only way to get back to normal life and normal economic activities. Unfortunately, however, we continue to suffer the effects of the crown. Many sectors have been affected. Among the most affected is air traffic. In addition, road traffic has been hit, buses. Mr. Momirovicu, your ministry has granted subsidies to bus carriers. What kind of subsidies is it, how much money is it, and is it enough for these companies to survive and that workers who deal with this activity survive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6068	Thank you. Minister Momirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6069	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, that's right, this crown has been here too long. We all suffer the consequences of her. It's really that kind of pressure, but it's just unsustainable. Somehow, we've all been optimistic since the President, of course, and the Prime Minister and the entire government have provided medical equipment and vaccines, but we must not forget that some industries have been hit extremely hard. Among the worst are the companies related to traffic, primarily to air traffic. Today, the Prime Minister and I, with the delegation, visited Belgrade Airport, an airport currently investing in 220m euros, which is likely to be the largest airport in Southeast Europe and attended the next Air Serbia plane to New York. The airport looks fantastic and the Prime Minister gave a really moving speech. We all remembered what "Er Serbia" had done for the state of Serbia in the previous period, what was once "JAT", how much the company had failed, how "Er Serbia" had risen, how it now manages to withstand all this pressure, of course with the support of the state, and how we expect that when the crown passes, that "Er Serbia" is not only the strongest regional company, which it is now undoubtedly, but one of the stronger European companies, and it will certainly be with the support of the government, with serious management. I think the future of "Er Serbia" is amazing. Of course, "Er Serbia" is one company and it's easy to talk about it, it's focused. However, we have not forgotten that a huge number of road transport companies are also suffering incredible pressure due to the root of the crisis. Simply, traffic is compromised, transporters are compromised. We're talking about 13,000 employees, about 6,000 companies that are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. We have created a truly quality package to support these companies with 600 euros per bus over the next six months. We paid for 82% yesterday, 83% of those buses on one condition, which is to keep their workers. So, we've really worked really hard to give them quality support in these difficult circumstances when these industries are really seriously threatened, not only in Serbia, but in all of Europe, to give them quality support to preserve their substance, to save their companies, and to as "Er Serbia" when this pressure is coronal, and he's already on road traffic something we need to get used to, this won't go too fast, this won't take too long, to adapt, to continue their business and to get out when this is even stronger. So, I think it's very supportive and we really have very good feedback and I am confident that with this support, bus carriers will be able to withstand this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6070	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6071	Thank you. Just to relate to some of the things mentioned by Minister Momirovic and somehow encouraged today by a truly beautiful event that we have also received a new Air Serbia plane A330 with the character Nikola Tesla, who is now on the way to New York, to thank our "Er Serbia" for everything they have done. Two weeks ago, for those who did not know, "Er Serbia" introduced a third weekly flight to New York. I think that, with Turkish Airlines, Er Serbia was the only airline that didn't interrupt flights to the United States. She really fought under such difficult circumstances that she has the most complete capacity of all airlines on those flights. Once again, the gratitude of "Er Serbia" for transporting as many as 10,310 citizens of the Republic of Serbia on evacuation flights during the crown of the crisis, i.e. the crisis caused by the coronary virus. So, saving our citizens from closed cities, from closed countries, from closed airports. If it hadn't been for "Er Serbia", believe me, none of that would have been the case, I wouldn't have said it easily, and this is how it was difficult, but it wouldn't have been possible. Finally, our "Er Serbia" has so far carried out 56 cargo flights that brought us medical equipment, appliances, respirators, vaccines in moments when you, if you had the money, couldn't find, to rent a plane to bring you equipment and vaccines. We were just sending our "Er Serbia" with that old A330, now we have this new one. If we hadn't had a national air carrier, we really couldn't have fought the virus like this. So it's kind of painting together a much stronger, much more serious state. There's not one thing that can make a difference, but when you invest in everything and you work smartly, then it all comes back to you in the end. So, thank you very much "Er Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6072	Thank you. In the end, the word has Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6073	I thank you again for the answers both to the prime minister and to Minister Momirovic. Indeed, I would not continue to waste my time, I would solidify myself with other parliamentary groups so that even the largest parliamentary group, the SNS, could come in line and ask your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6074	Thank you. The word is Dr. Emeshe Uri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6075	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, would ask my first question to the Minister of Health, assistant Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, and so on. The post-covid syndrome that the whole world is talking about more and more. My question concerns plans, the organisation of a health system that the ministry will take to adequately respond to this seeking problem. Before that, I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia, the health ministry itself, and then the Institute of Public Health, because they have practically made it possible for the entire health system to respond quickly, adequately and in good time to this problem. I would certainly commend the government for what was least popular at the beginning of this epidemic, which is an emergency, because it has practically made it possible for us all to prepare ourselves for an ongoing epidemic and to practically make this health system ecolabulate before the problem. It would also point out, as every time in my speech, the importance of the unique health care system of the primary health care of the homes of health who took over most of the burden and as regards diagnostics only, as regards the initial treatment, home treatment of patients who were sick of the covids, as well as their reference, timely reference to the hospital, and beyond that when we began to vaccination mass, then the same system reacted spotily, quickly and adequately. As for post-covid syndrome, which the world is more and more talking about, and cases also occur with us, these are patients of our citizens who are over the crown, and in fact do not have, are no longer contagious, and have still problems, can not return to their daily, to carry out their daily duties. They have a set of problems of which are the most pronounced fatigue, malaise, muscle pain, thornyness, sometimes it's convulsions, loss of consciousness, blurred consciousness is also very important, depression after all. The world is slowly preparing the system, the health system, by forming the so-called so-called health system. post-patient hospital covidation. My question concerns how the ministry sees it in some future and whether it plans to exploit the network of health homes and to be so-called at health homes. Maybe some kind of post-covid syndrome counselling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6076	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6077	I'm glad you're already thinking about something that's waiting for us, which has already begun. You're absolutely right, we have one number of patients who have after the permones, or after a negative PCR continuation of the problems, one more severe and longer recovery of lung function above all. It's just one of the parameters that shows that they're harder to get back into some normal function and that's a serious problem for these patients. They think that when PCR is negative that it's like with some other diseases, they solve the problem and they can come back without any problems. I want to take the opportunity to tell everyone that this period of return has to be gradual, that they have to go to regular controls. We've already organized it at the clinics dealing with pulmonary diseases, but you're right that we won't be able to handle it, there's a large number of patients to receive all these clinics, but they're going to have to take over the homes of health. They're not the only problems. If I tell you that people who spent a long time on the respirator, so they recovered, that they had to learn to walk because their muscles and all other things were atrophy, I hope that the citizens of Serbia will realize how serious the crown is and that they will remember this information that the Prime Minister said, and that today's cut more than 98% of the patients in the hospital are not vaccinated. That means people were vaccinated so they wouldn't be in the hospital. The probability is 1% or slightly more than 1% to be in the hospital and all of the consequences that we're talking about, we're not talking about a lying crown, we're talking about the consequences that are coming, it's just one part that we're seeing on our lungs. The second part that's bound to the heart, the third part related to the kidneys and other organs. There's also the fourth part that's most talked about right now, and these are mental problems. It's about mental health. It's already been done by the World Health Organization. In two months, a World Health Organization strategy will be put in place to deal with those people who have this kind of problem. Once again, I appeal to everyone that it's no shame to contact both psychiatrists and psychologists to help us, or to take medications to make it easier for us, to help the organism. It will be faster and more effective to fight the organism if we contact an adequate doctor and take adequate therapy. If we don't, we're exhausting the organism and it's going to go a lot slower. So there's no shame in it. Not to say that most of the people who had the crown had serious nightmares during their sleep and after the sunken crown that it was still there for a while. It's a really diverse picture. That's just gonna be analyzed. We can avoid all that if we vaccinate. It's the only thing that's proven. According to this data, let's not make another mistake, these 1.2% of what's in the hospital, these are the people who received the first dose of the vaccine, and they relaxed and thought they were protected after the first dose. Dear citizens, it's not like that. Let the vaccine give you faster, some later antibodies, but what applies to everything, count that only after a second dose, after a few weeks, two, three, four weeks, you can relax, but not until the end, because if you enter somewhere where the virus is high you'll get the virus, only that your clinical picture will be much lighter and you won't have the consequences that you'll end up in intensive care, that you'll end up on the respirator. That's the point. Don't let us be people who, when we have something at our disposal, we don't know that we appreciate it. When we have the vaccine we need to extract half an hour, an hour to go to the nearest home of health to vaccinate. You don't even have to make an appointment anymore, if that was your problem, if you don't want to do it for some reason. Now from eight o'clock to eight o'clock in the morning. Is it possible that we don't have time to set aside half an hour, an hour to go and vaccinate and solve something, help ourselves, help our loved ones, help the state? People, there will be more and more companies who won't be able to give you sick, pay you sick if you get sick of the crown and you haven't been vaccinated. People tell you, we're going to go now, we're going to get the vaccine, we're going to go to companies and private and state and all of these bigger and smaller, so that we can meet them, not just to vaccinate, but to solve the dilemmas of those people who have why they didn't vaccinate. We had to do with the young, you know what, we can talk here all day long, the three of them get organized and let the young people get into trouble with their sterileness, that they won't have any offspring. None of these young people ask on the basis of what you're saying, give me one piece of evidence. There's no evidence in the world, no studies, no facts, nothing. But it becomes an excuse not to. Then we worked with the students of medical school, with students of pharmaceutical, dental, who live in dormitories, and now we go on, holding lectures in other colleges to respond to all the inconsistencies that they have, that the most respected experts answer to all the facts, that people are no longer in the dilemma. Simply, the young people took it for granted, with nothing. There's no problem, there's no evidence, there's nothing. Don't listen to that, people. Young and moving, to get back to normal life as soon as possible, everyone's eager to have a good time, everyone's eager for the lives they're used to, we have to have an understanding for them, all of this is possible, and everything is possible as soon as possible if we're vaccinated as soon as possible. I appeal to all of you, in conversations with young people and in the environments from which you come to organize it, to clarify yourself to people. Wherever we need to send our experts to explain, to prove, to do whatever is necessary, because it's the only way out. This is the problem we've already begun to deal with. Our experts from "Laza Lazarevic" and all other institutions, we have free phone lines where people can turn, get advice, get everything they need, and we will reorganize our health care, according to the needs that are necessary to monitor all these patients, not only about lung problems, but also with heart and muscle and with all other things that will be shown as a need to be done. Simply, the most important health of our citizens, thanks to what you say to primary and health care homes, is absolutely to all of our healthcare professionals who are immensely grateful for all of this. Then you have some irresponsible people who come, insult them, like they didn't do well, we have more dead in our house. Without any proof, without anything, they take a month at a time. You can imagine, last March, when everything happened, and now March from this year and then compare some data, and no one seriously compares the world from month to month, you can compare the data for a year. The whole world says the number's up. We don't hide one thing, we say the most openly – yes, we have so many dead, the number has increased, yes. There'll be an analysis, you'll see. It's happening all over Europe, in most of the world. But with these fans, we have people whose political strategy is, since this is a political home, rooting for a number of deaths, they think it's their chance to get back into politics, they think it's going to bring them back together again. People, don't go into health care, spread panic over your political points. You have to be so responsible. Ludi, we know you. You know us, we know you. We know what your goal is. In some other way, do not destroy what is concerned about the health of our citizens, the lives of our citizens. There must be a line behind which you can't go. Make up a policy, do something. Just imagine, you all remember that we have experienced this coronary crisis at the level of the health system that we inherited, without one built hospital, without apparatus, without equipment. No specialization was given to people. So, no doctors, no nurses, no nothing. Just try to close your eyes for a second to imagine what our battle with the crown would look like. Well, we wouldn't have a health system for a long time. So people would go, and those who work, they'd go with their heads regardless, because they couldn't answer any of the challenges, let alone the world's pandemic. Don't, people, invest in something we invest a lot, all citizens invest, don't disrespect it, don't crash it, it's never done. There must be one line below which you can't go, because none of us in this health care system are going to take home, no clinical centres, no hospitals, no magnetic resonances, no scanners, and everything we've taken. It remains for the citizens of Serbia, remains for the health system, for our young doctors, for the people we have to rely on, who are our future. I'm just asking them to understand that all of this is going to stay, just let them take care of it. Don't let us tear down something we expect to help us. As we're talking about vaccines, they're like this, they're like this, they're gone, and then we're gonna go vaccinate. Think about it in advance, come up with a strategy, and it's up to us not to pay attention to them, to focus on young people, to concentrate on people, to convince them to vaccinate as soon as possible, as possible, so that we can get out of this problem. Because you see countries and regions coming out that are faster vaccinated and that are more vaccinated. So you have the evidence, not the words. Let's just talk about evidence and those things that can be checked out, that's the only way we can get out of this situation. I'm sorry I made it too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6078	Thank you. You want to do it again? Dr. Emesha Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6079	I'm glad there's a vision in the Ministry of Health that we can solve this coming problem. We at the Institute of Public Health "Batut" always received modern treatment protocols when this pandemic began. I hope we get the same protocols to treat post-kovid syndrome. In the world, multidisciplinary units were formed in hospitals consisting of specialists. If it's going to be a counseling facility, maybe think about training doctors, getting educated, working at a post-coupling counseling facility, diabetes counselling, hypertension, lipiologists, hypertenologists, and in this way maybe we'll motivate young doctors to stay at the primary. We now have a problem with finding young future doctors, who will work for us, especially in small areas. Thank you, Minister, for your response. If I had time, I would ask another question to Minister Momirovic, which concerns practical infrastructure. As I come from Somboro, 150 kilometers away from Belgrade, I travel two and a half hours back and forth, so I would ask you what are the plans for a city that is more than 270 years ago but a royal free city, and there is a 14th century, on the three-way practically, one important crossroads that connects our country to Croatia and Hungary, and is not connected to the capital of the proper infrastructure, so I am interested – what are the plans and how fast will we be able to get to Belgrade much faster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6080	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6081	Thank you so much for this question. I would agree with what you said. Indeed, there was no adequate attention given to Sombord. I don't know how much you've been following, one of the plans and priorities related to travel infrastructure is definitely Sombor-Kikind's highway or Sombor-Kikind's fast traffic. We noticed that the construction of infrastructure is mainly from Belgrade-Novi Sad, Novi Sad-Subotica. A decision has been made, projected and is expected to take place this year to build a Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway, but somehow Sombor on the one hand and Kikind always stay in the other plan somehow. Of course, at the highest political level a decision has been made, the previous spatial plan is now in the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. We expect that, if not this year, at the beginning of next year, we will be able to go into some work, right in the part of Backo Breg towards Somboro, and in the next few years we will be able to build and connect not only Sombor and Kikinda, but also Sombor, Kikinda, Red, Srbobran, Novi Becej, Vienna, and then Kikinda, to fully connect Vojvodina. We call this highway "the smile of the Vojvodina", as a traffic station that will cross-connect Vojvodina and that will allow extremely high-quality and fast communication of the Vojvodina from all sides. Also, I have to tell you that there is another project that is part of Serbia's wider strategy regarding investment in municipal infrastructure. As you know, we've had one situation for decades to push under the carpet, one serious situation that we don't have wastewater treatment facilities, practically all of our wastewaters we're throwing into the rivers, then we're taking drinking water from those rivers, and if we can understand why it happened in the '80s, why it wasn't an actual topic, if we could understand why no one was involved in the '90s, because objectively the country was in a difficult situation, it's hard to understand why in the 2000s nothing was done on this issue. We're talking about one first of all the civilization issue, that every man must have a sewerage infrastructure and then that waste water should be purified and returned to nature and then, of course, to the ecological issue, because that water, as it is, whether it is purified or not, ends up in nature. We, unfortunately, do not have wastewater treatment plants in Belgrade either, and at this point we are building them in the Great Village and are planning several wastewater treatment plants. But in addition to Belgrade, Sombor is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, 124m euros will be invested in the construction of four wastewater treatment plants and Sombor will have no problem with wastewaters, and not only Sombor, and Subotica, and Ada, and Novi Sad and 80% of municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will have a resolved issue over the next five years. So we're not talking about some long-term project, we're only talking about five years of investment of nearly four billion euros. It's a reality. That's why it's really hard to believe, to understand when we're facing environmental attacks, environmental attacks after decades of absolute non-investment. At times when the country had one economic growth, shortly after 2000, environmental investments were zero. We have faced today, since fiscal consolidation has ended, as the economic standard has increased, since the average salaries have increased, since we started to travel infrastructure, we have come into a situation of whether to get into this issue, which is primarily ecological and civilizational, or to push it back under the carpet and let it go for decades or decades to stretch. The President of the Republic has indeed made that clear – why do we need roads, fast tracks, if we have such a bad municipal infrastructure, if we have a bad environmental issue? We will in the next five years solve not only Sombor, Subotica, Adu, but also Kragujevac, Bojnik, Bujanovac, we will practically solve this issue once and for all, Serbia will be on an ecologically much higher level than it is now and that is one thing that is phenomenal to me, which is an absolute priority, which is much more important than the roads and the fast tracks, which is clearly not seen. We'll leave this country cleaner once we finish this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6082	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6083	Dear People's MPs, not on this subject, but I will only use it to report to you an incredible case that I have not yet seen, not only in my political career, but before as I have watched and followed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are all witnesses to what we have discussed and my debates with MP Vladan Glisic, that we have discussed two laws adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposal and directed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I have just received a notification, a message for one of the main news reports on the N1, the prime minister, and they quote: "The Law on Equal Communities, deep in the spirit of the tradition of our people". So I really have to react and say when you're lying about something that all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could see, they can put back the program so they can hear again what we talked about that this law they mentioned was not a single word. Really, I have to react. That's how I reacted once when they lied about us inviting someone to the vaccination, and there was a closed vaccine point. Then they said it wasn't a lie, but I stopped someone from giving information. So, open lies like this, these aren't fake news, these are open lies. Non-professionalism, as in this country never, I mean, has never been seen. So thank you for showing every day about how professional you are, thank you for talking about yourself best, better than I could ever say about you, and now once again after that press conference, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you can now look at and see how objective, unprofessional, sorry professional and credible source of N1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6084	Doctor, Emesh Uri. Here's a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6085	I would only finally thank the minister for the comprehensive response and something even more we got in his answer, more promises and plans for the future of five years. I think it's very important, even in one small family to know where we'll be in five years, let alone in one country. I am pleased to hear that the current situation has been seriously considered and appropriate plans have been made for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6086	Thank you. Let's move on. National MP Dragan M. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6087	Dear President-in-Office, respected Prime Minister, respected ministers and dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, my question will be addressed to Minister Krkobic. Ministers, you were one of the drivers of the reconstruction of cooperatives in the country of Serbia, you were also an initiator of the formation of over 900 cooperatives, primarily in rural areas, cooperatives above all this agricultural and agricultural, achieved success, and gave an answer to how to survive small possessions, how to raise their productivity. The government of Serbia and your Ministry, over the past three years, has allocated a billion and 700 million dinars to help cooperatives, and in this year as we know 500 million dinars have been planned to help cooperatives. However, I would like to say that in the Cooperatives Act, in Article 10, next to these cooperatives, as I have stated, agricultural and agricultural, it is said that other cooperatives such as housing, consumer, crafts, health, social and other cooperatives, other activities can be formed. The formation of these cooperatives would allow the actual survival of small businesses and tradespeople on the market. First of all, I don't think that these cooperatives have been given adequate attention and my question is raised from this question, or question to you -- are you planning to allocate certain funds in the coming period to help these other cooperatives, or, above all, cooperatives formed in urban areas?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6088	Thank you. Minister Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6089	Mr. President, Mrs. Brnabic, the honourable MPs, Mr. Markovic, have already given some concrete information in your question. The question of cooperative is something that is imperative. You said very precisely that they are necessary, those who are small and who have to join together, that they could in some way be either competitively competitive or meet some of their own personal needs. So far we have dealt exclusively with agricultural farming cooperatives, and of course, the beauty of cooperatives is great. It is broad and it is, among other things, a requirement and the opening of a third sector of governance, besides the real and public sector, that third sector of social entrepreneurship. The cooperative is, in my opinion, deeply convinced, the most vulnerable organisational form for the organisation of the third sector of social entrepreneurship. There are also different cooperatives, not to mention, from social, tourist, manufacturing and all to help the weak, to help the powerless. When we talk about these other types of cooperatives, not about your question, I mean primarily social cooperatives, manufacturing, service. What do we want? The answer is very simple, today here in the Assembly we are talking about fast tracks, about rails, about clean air, but I would remind you of the basic, today is the imperative of each of us, including in Serbia, the regular and safe profit and dignity when you make that profit, that you have a full satisfaction. I must point out that we have a large number of people, especially from sensitive social groups, and I would like to mention people with disabilities, refugees and displaced persons, marginalized social groups, among which, unfortunately, such issues are raised here, we have a large number of women of a certain age and men, who are uninteresting in the labour market. We need to pay special attention to them, and that's why we provide special care so-called. Women's cooperatives. At the same time, this form of social co-operation implies that they get a start position, which will allow them to be competitive. You mentioned the number of cooperatives that were formed, over 900, and that's an expression of great trust, on the one hand, but also of necessity. We need to form them. When I say we have to, we didn't form them here, we from the Serbian Government, the Prime Minister, I, the finance minister, helped them financially. They were formed by people, living people, men and women, in Serbia's villages, in response to the challenges they face. Now we've spent half a billion, it's big money, and if you ask me, I might also say that the small money, if I look at this country's budget expenditures, and I'm ready to stand behind those views, that in the next period, and that's the answer to your question, we have to raise more, in order to start social entrepreneurship as a special kind of sector of injury, and by some calculations, it takes at least 100 million euros, and I've heard something that needs to be arranged around Somboro, that 100 million. Let's also see that ordinary little man, who's looking at us now, who may not be chasing the roads, who may not be dealing with percentages and calculations and mathematical models, but he'll look into his wallet. He wants to make money, and he doesn't want social aid. These people, persons with disabilities, deserve to be allowed to work, work, that means self-confirmation, means being a decent man. There are in Serbia, I said, a few tens of thousands, but I'm willing to say there are over 100,000. They're ready, they're smart, they're intelligent, they're worth going to work. The model for which you have asked is in front of us, I hope that in the coming year we will step hard, that we will enable them to form these types of cooperatives, whether useful, whether productive, or social, and that as a state and as a society, we will strongly help them. We're going to help them start, and then we're going to use legal solutions that involve the concept of so-called. positive discrimination. I'll tell you a few things, so they know right away. It is a reduction in VAT, it is a release from all taxes and contributions, other than contributions to PIO and health insurance, to provide a better starting position with what I would say, very necessarily our definition as a society, as a community, as a whole, to act psychologically, to say that, that product or that service that people in these social cooperatives do, in this social enterprise is their product and it is our duty as responsible individuals, as responsible corporations, to buy that product. So it's a set of measures that are ahead of us, and from us, Reverend Markovic, and all of your colleagues here in this session, because this assembly will consider the budget for next year. When that budget comes, remember these words, and say, yes, we are to take a good look at other budgetary positions and see that for these purposes we separate, I said at least 100m euros initially, because I repeat these people in Serbia, and marginalised groups deserve it, you asked the right question, you speak for them, and they wait for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6090	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6091	Thank you, Minister for your reply. I have to say that PUPS has the basic principle of its operation, which is solidarity. Since it goes on May 1st, I would like to congratulate everyone on May 1st and of course on all citizens in Serbia and those present in this house to congratulate those who celebrate Easter on the July calendar, to congratulate them on that holiday. I really want to be solid and leave time for other fellow Members to ask questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6092	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6093	I thank you, Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President at the very beginning, since at the last session of the College there was a crackdown on me that I have double standards and archaics, I ask you to keep an eye on the presidency and to respect both of us and you of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are no Sanjak municipalities, there is, I'll repeat for who knows which time, the Raski administrative district. Just so I don't have double standards and arches only when Mr. Enis Imamovic and his MP group are here, because we just heard there's a Sandzak municipality, so I'm asking you clearly to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we all signed that when we took the oath. As far as today's issue is concerned, then, firstly, I want to say that the result of the visit of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic Brussels, and the arrangements that have been made really encouraging for Serbia. I fully agree with the president who considers this visit to be one of the best, and when I say so, I do not only think about the EU and assistance and support in the area of rail infrastructure, but above all, I am thinking of mutual trust. During yesterday's debate here in parliament on the European Parliament's report, we exchanged an opinion with Mr Bilckok, who drew up the European Parliament's report, suggested that an even better co-operation was needed that we were always open and ready to avoid future interpretations, certain processes in Serbia and the various findings that the previous report resulted from amendments submitted by some MEPs. First of all, here I think of the amendments tabled by the European Parliamentarians to the European Commission's proposal for a report on Serbia for 2019 and 2020, certain findings that have caused us to feel unhappiness, because it seemed to us, no, it seemed to us, but we are fully convinced that they are not founded and not accurate and not accurate. That's what we discussed with the Europarliamentaries and pointed out with Mr. Bilchik. We also said that we agree that the perception of citizens in the EU is important. In this regard, I would like to say that there is a huge difference between, say, the European Parliament's report and the results of a visit by the president of Serbia to the EU and what has been agreed in Brussels. In that sense, I ask you, Mrs. Brnabic, to comment as Prime Minister, let's say two findings presented in the report. First, where the European Parliament is expressing concern over alleged investigative journalism that the government is manipulating statistics on Kovid-19 for political and electoral purposes and the second one concerning health care, I must mention health care, because they are Serbian heroes today, where it is said, realises that Serbia's health system suffers from lack of resources and drains out of expertise resulting in lack of medical equipment, medical expertise and laboratory testing facilities during the Kovida-19 pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6094	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6095	Thank you. First of all, I would say that when they talk about investigative journalism, they don't talk about this kind of investigative journalism, whose example we've just seen, because of the bad relationships and the loss of signal between Belgrade and Luxembourg, they get all the wrong information about what I've been saying, but good, and that's life, and that's Serbia's political scene. These aren't the media, these are political activists, what to do, we have to fight it. We talked several times about the European Parliament resolution. There really are some actually wrong things. You only listed some of those things. So, when someone in the Resolution adopted by the European Parliament says that we have a lack of medical equipment, and we are during the crown of the virus, or the crisis caused by the coronary virus, we have sent these medical equipment, including EU members to help them because they were in a more difficult situation than we are, and at that point we were able to help them without talking about how much we helped the region, and finally Pristina with PSR tests, then there is really no argument that you can disprove that claim. You can only read it, repeat it, and then make that sentence or that one line or member in that Resolution talk enough about the objectivity and resolution itself. I cannot hide my disappointment as to why this is so, especially because I honestly believe that unfortunately in this European Parliament for this resolution, for example, the MEPs from Italy, the countries we sent medical equipment to, and they voted in favour of Serbia being in danger because there is no medical equipment. But, okay. Sometimes you have reports that are so unobstructive, that when they go to such an extreme that they are somehow open lies that you can easily show and easily prove, they also make our work easier because there is a part of what we have talked about in every assembly, including in the European Parliament MPs who disagree with some policy, at this point with President Alexander Vukic's policy or the ruling coalition, or with the politics and activities of the Government of Serbia, and then we have these inexplicable and incorrect members in the context of a resolution. Again, I hope that this will not be repeated in the future, first of all because I think it is not in the European spirit. I respect the European spirit, I appreciate the European spirit, I sincerely want Serbia to the European Union and I think that it is our place and I am committed to us becoming an EU member, I believe in European values. I also know that this sentence from that European Parliament report, that is, the European Parliament resolution, is not that European value. When it is said that the government is manipulating, doubting, or there is a possibility that the government is manipulating data, I would say again that it is truly an incredible accusation at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of our services that are fighting the crown of the virus. I'll tell you why. First because you can't know the exact numbers until the whole fight is over, until the pandemic is over, until you look at all these statistics, until you do a review of those numbers and then you go out with the final numbers. Some member states of the European Union and some other countries around the world, extremely strong, significant, advanced countries have worked and audited both during the pandemic itself and changed the numbers and the infected and deceased over 24 hours for thousands of people. They say, OK, we had 3,000 deceased, sorry, actually, we had 9,000 deceased, so no one charged them with manipulation. So we'll certainly be as responsible as we've been fighting this fight and the whole process, and when this is over, we'll do that review, and I think we'll have something to be proud of, as we're proud of today. We have done our best, and I think that in every case we have achieved in many areas far better results than many other EU countries and around the world, and yet it has been really hard work and hard work and great gratitude not only to the health sector, but to all those who participated in this. So, I don't know what they would say if we did something that one UK did, for example, which is that one day they just say, we stop publishing the numbers of the deceased? I don't know how they'd react if the Republic of Serbia did? We didn't want to do that. We have always tried to give citizens accurate, timely information as much as possible in the given conditions of the pandemic as is unrecorded by the Spanish fever. So, it says enough about that resolution, but, again, there are some things that we really need to pay attention to, which we must take into account and every such document, whatever part of it, subjective and biased, we are really taking with the attention it deserves and our commitment to be a member of the European Union, but I hope, again, that this will be somehow for them to learn not to go to such extremes as it went into this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6096	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6097	Thank you, President. We fully agree with you, and we have asked this question precisely for the sake of the public and one responsible and serious relationship with the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the entire health profession during the pandemic period. Of course, on the one hand, we have made clear to European Parliamentarians the determination, commitment and commitment of Serbia on the path of European integration and we have made it clear that instead of saying that the good news that the European Council and the European Commission will not open new negotiating chapters for Serbia in the previous year, we are always proposing an open and constructive dialogue with representatives of the European Parliament. The next question is addressed to the Ministry of Education. Mr. Ruzic, you recently discussed with the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vucic that the state makes up unique textbooks for Serbian language and literature, history and geography for primary and secondary school. In this regard, it is agreed that your ministry prepares to amend two laws in order to achieve this objective and create legal and regulatory assumptions. The question is, how would the public get to know each other again, so I want to ask the question of the Minister – when can we expect the launch of the initiative on unique identity textbooks, both in terms of the announced amendments to the law and in terms of writing and printing these textbooks, have the activities of the Ministry already started and when the first textbooks are expected?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6098	The word is made by Minister Ruzic, or the first vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6099	Thank you, Your Honor. Members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Milicevic asked a very important and current question from the aspect of the legislative framework and, of course, the Law on textbooks made clear that it regulated and regulated the preparation and approval and selection, publishing, as well as the monitoring of textbooks and other teaching tools for primary and secondary school. As regards publishing, or publisher, it may be a public undertaking, an entrepreneur or any other legal person registered for publishing activity. Apropo of what the President of the Republic Mr. Alexander Vukic initiated as an idea, and in terms of publishing national textbooks or so on. I think it's a good idea that we worked and formed the Working Group and prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on textbooks that would treat this issue in a way that Serbian language and literature, history and geography, so the textbooks from these subjects are printed by the public publisher, in this case the Institute for textbooks and teaching tools in some future period, of course not deafening what our legislative framework has defined so far, and as regards the liberalisation of the textbook market, which was introduced at a small door in 2003. Later interventions and new laws are practically clearly defined, but I would say that certainly one such idea and the unification of these textbooks, where these textbooks would certainly be intended for our children who learn Serbian in the diaspora, but above all in BiH or Republika Srpska, where we would even all textbooks. I think it's not just an identity issue, but a question of national interest, and on that background, the President of the Republic has initiated this idea. As I was saying, the amendment and addition of this law are ready. There are some fine nuances left, certainly and consultations with those who are practically interested in publishing on the market, and I think we will soon come out with this bill and that it will be held at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then I hope in this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6100	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6101	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I thank you again, Prime Minister, for your response. Very short. At the very beginning, the Prime Minister, you spoke of violent and violent behavior and what I want to say is that the lack of political power and lack of political influence leads to that most primitive behavior. It's not politics and it's not the essence of the existence of politics. It is far from politics and far from the threshold of that political tolerance and political vocabulary and the way politicians, responsible people in Serbia should and must behave. We all need to fight together, and this must not be the norm of social behavior in Serbia. It seems that in Serbia there is still that part of the quasi of the political opposition elite that has not realized that by generating some political affairs, that politics, by politics, you will not reach cheap political points. We belong to a political option which clearly says Serbia is a regulated legal state in which the institutions of the system function. Leave the competent authorities, the competent institutions, the system institutions to do their jobs, and we expect the Money Laundering Authority, we expect the competent authorities and the competent institutions to come out very quickly with accurate and clear information about everything the finance minister has been talking about, and what the daily presses have been encouraged by facts and clear data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6102	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6103	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is one of the rare moments in parliamentary life in Serbia when a representative of the largest parliamentary group asks a question. As much as my memory serves, that's the third time in five years. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, all of us, speaking in this respected home, have our own style and approach, both of us MPs and you government representatives. For example, some of us sit, some of us stand, and it is a matter of personal choice. I'm standing for the first time, and I'm standing first of all out of respect for the topic I'm about to talk about right now. I stand above all out of respect for the president of the state and this government and Serbia, out of respect for everything they have done together for our people in the region in recent years. First of all, I mean what was done in Republika Srpska, but nothing less important and what was done in Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia and all over the region. I stand also on behalf of all MPs of the SNS Group in gratitude, on behalf of all our people in the region who certainly see what the President and this Government is doing for them, but I stand on behalf of all those who were still under Vlatko Vukovic during Lazar, standing side by side and defending Serbia, on behalf of all those in the Nevesin rifle, on behalf of all those people from Mojkovec who defended Serbia and the Serbian army and the Serbian state, on behalf of all those who suffered from Jasenovac to Prebilovac, on behalf of all those who gave their lives for this country 90 years, and all hoping that Serbia would be able to help themselves and all those who feel their own. Serbia and its president and government have changed history. Perhaps, President, you are not even aware of how you did it, but if you were to pass through BiH in the past centuries in every municipality you would find one building, one time, one dam built either by Turkey or Austria or, possibly, Germany. What Serbia was building, you couldn't see. In just a few years, every municipality in Republika Srpska has received at least one such building, if not more. It changed history very clearly and very clearly, but very positive. That's what you, the government, did, was the president of the state, first of all, but every citizen of Serbia who financed these projects in an indirect or direct way. What was, of course, everyone sees and there's little time for me to talk about every single project today, but I'm interested in what's going to be. In recent days during a visit to Banja Luka, the president of the state announced assistance for four municipalities in Republika Srpska and the Federation. Help Dubica, Kostajnica, Dravar and Nevessinj. My question is, when are they going to go into realisation and help you? When will the construction of an airport in Trebinj begin which, believe me, is much more than a traffic connection with Belgrade? It is a serious identity link between the people, the south of Republika Srpska, if you will, and the north of Montenegro with Belgrade, with the queen of Serbia and every man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6104	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6105	Thank you, honourable Members of Parliament, for your help and for the support that you personally provided to the Government of the Republic of Serbia when we discussed what it is necessary to do, what priorities and what we should do and how. Much has been done and I am proud to have participated, proud also to have been Prime Minister when President Aleksandr Vukic and BiH Presidency President Milorad Dodik's initiative established a new celebration of the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag, which we have now celebrated for two years, as a reminder of the date when the Thessaloniki Front was breached in 1918. It is symbolic, I think, the best way to start answering this question, about all the projects, but all these projects are part of something bigger, of some unity between not only Serbia and Republika Srpska, but of the Serbian people wherever they live in the region or around the world, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia, anywhere in the world. I'm proud of everything we've done. I'll tell you that I've really had an emotional experience every time I go to Republika Srpska and open up some of those projects that we've worked together, funded by the Republic of Serbia, whether there's some kindergarten that bears the name of Serbia or some home of health, a bridge or something else. So, all that is important for the quality of life of citizens in Republika Srpska, not only in Republika Srpska, but in the Serbian people and throughout BiH and in other municipalities where we could help. I sincerely hope, right to tell you, that at the end of July or August, we will open the Bridge "Bratoljub", so the LJubovija Bridge – Bratunac, which we ended up on our side in 2017 and invested a significant amount of money and then Republika Srpska for pre-accession traffic, but we waited for the opening of the border crossing. That's about a year ago off and now it's working on it, but it's going to mean so much to people on both sides of that bridge, so I hope that big venture finally ends. I will also tell you, perhaps exclusively now, that an agreement has been reached that on 17 May we have a joint session of two governments -- the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska. We've been taking a break, unfortunately, for over a year because of the coronal virus, but now that the situation has calmed down a little bit, we'll go to Banja Luka on 17 May for a joint session of two governments and re-launch the dynamics of many of these projects, especially these strategic projects, which you listed, Trebinje Airport. On May 17th, I am proud to say, we are setting up a cornerstone for the Buk White hydropower plant, and it is a strategic project that we care very much about, on which we have worked very hard to fund the Republic of Serbia. The highway to Bijeljina. So, we are already on our way to work side in the Republic of Serbia, Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, but the Republic of Serbia will also finance a portion to Bijeljina, a complete route to Bijeljina, that highway. We've got a pipeline. I don't know if I mentioned Trebinje Airport, you did, but another extremely important strategic project. I hope we start building next year. That's where we set aside significant means of expropriation. It is an airport that will be owned by 100% of the Republic of Serbia, but it will mean a lot, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but for the whole of BiH. We also discussed an important project in the area of agricultural infrastructure. It is an automatic anti-urban protection that will also defend Republika Srpska's territory, but which will help us in many ways in this area so that we can break these city clouds there, so we will have less need to act on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, President Vukic and President Dodik have launched another important topic, which is the opening of border and industrial zones. This is one of the important topics for the next joint session of governments, and then concrete projects and support of these four municipalities, which you mentioned: Dubica, Kostanica, Drvar and Nevesinje. So we're back there on May 17th, and we're talking about exactly what we can do. Here, May 17th is the day we finally move into the realisation of the Buck White joint hydropower plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6106	Thank you. Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6107	The Prime Minister has already responded quite a bit, I'll just have a few technical things. Public procurement for the selection of contractors for the production of project-technical documentation has been set up. We have allocated about 240m euros for the issue of expropriation, we should go into expropriation in the fall. I'm counting on us to get a building permit by the end of the year, and as the president said, I think next year we can go into construction. I'd like to inform you here about one more question that's not directly related to the airport, but it's basically very much related to this whole project. We have started communication with representatives of the BiH state at the central level. It's about air sky control in the territory covered by the airport, the future airport in Trebinj. What's this about? We do not want the Republic of Serbia to finance an airport that will cost between 80m and 100m euros, while air traffic control has a third party. So, not BiH, not the Republic of Serbia, but the third party, in this case the Republic of Croatia. We want to support BiH, that it controls the sky over its country. If it can't do this for a variety of reasons, we are ready to have our SMATS regulatory body, which is not only a national body, but a regional body, as SMATS do, owns SMATS is the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro relatively owned by Serbia 93%, Montenegro 7%. So we opened a complex issue that is politically and strategically, and we also plan to solve it in the next year, certainly before our airport is built to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia's assets in Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6108	Thank you. MP Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6109	Thank you, Mr. President. "Peace is our future." Those are the words that the president of the state said the other day in Banja Luka, and I think they were the most significant things he said in Banja Luka. It is important of course how people live, it is important infrastructure projects, everyday life, but to have peace and to develop in peace that is what is most important. It sounded very good and optimistic for every man in both Republika Srpska and Serbia, including the Balkans, because only in terms of peace can we do these things that you and the president are doing today in both Republika Srpska and in every part of the region where our people live. How many governments and presidents today work for our people in the region if it's just me or if my colleagues in the SNS say that, it might be understood as subjective. However, as the historic contribution of Serbia to the development and survival of our people in the region today, particularly the political leaders of our people in the region, whether they come from the local government or the opposition there. And that's what every man of ours says, of course, and that's what's certainly objective. Of course, it is important to note that for the first time, and we have seen this in the budgets that we have adopted here, for the first time there are clearly projects in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia is financing, and are located outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia or on its border. One of the most significant, you have already mentioned in part, and you have answered that question is the construction of the hydroenergy potential of Gornja Drina, where Serbia participates with 50% and you have already said on 17 March that laying the cornerstone. However, the political support enjoyed today by our people in the region is also important in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, where this may be the most important today. It is important to cultivate a culture of memory, to build a "Downing Gradina" memorial complex where our country wants every child who goes on a field trip during his schooling to visit such a site, to learn what happened in the history of our people, to learn that it is necessary never to repeat itself, and certainly to preserve peace and not to spread hatred towards anyone. Of course, keeping a memory of everything that's happened so it won't happen again. I'd like to ask you, Madam Prime Minister, that part of you to comment a little bit, and that is certainly the last question for today, respecting certainly the rules of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6110	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6111	I agree with you that peace is the most important thing for us right now and that almost nothing can compromise that peace. We need peace for further development, for stability, for strengthening our domestic investors, for bringing additional foreign investors and for expanding their investment here. We're doing fine. We're on our way. It didn't fall from the sky, it's the result of brave and hard work and we can't stop. And because of that in every place, at all times our only message is peace. Peace is needed throughout the Balkans and our policy always and fully follows those words. We could also see that now that no one in the region except the Republic of Serbia had vaccines, selflessly, we were sharing the vaccines we have with our friends, partners in the region, regardless of perhaps some of our political differences, different opinions on certain things, nearer or further past. The only thing that mattered was that as much as possible and as much as possible before our entire region and all the people living in it were safe and safe. That is why the donation of vaccines and BiH, of course to Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia and we will continue. In addition, almost President Vukic and I discussed a project to build a science and technology park in Sarajevo. To tell you the truth, I'm ready and I would very much like us to be working with other peoples as well. I wish that with Pristina when they introduced 100% taxes, putting ethnic and national signs of groceries and goods, we talked about how we can digitize schools together, for example in Pristina, how we can build together some scientific and technological park, how we can do something that will mean a different future for all people living in those areas. Unfortunately, we didn't have a talker on that side for that, but we're going to keep preaching, spreading peace and co-operation policy, mutual understanding, because it's the only way we're going forward. To move forward is the only possible option for us, because we want our people to stay here, live here, build their families here, build their careers, build on our future, and that's the only way forward for the Republic of Serbia, I honestly believe in the whole region. As much as someone may have a political motive to destabilise the region to justify its, above all, economic failures, the Republic of Serbia is in the interests of peace, stability, dialogue, understanding and co-operation, and so we will continue to talk and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6112	Thank you. The word is, in the end, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6113	Finally, I'll take a chance, my colleagues told me I said about laying the foundation stone on March 17th. Of course, it's about the lapus, I meant on May 17th. Well, there are a lot of things that we here, and about this topic, the distinguished Prime Minister, can talk about today. The projects are measured for hundreds, with millions of euros. There's a lot of it and it seems to me that one of these formats is really small and it would even take a whole session to talk about these things, because a lot of it has been done over the past few years. The important thing is that you have already said yourself, it is important that we maintain peace, that we maintain co-operation with all those who live with our peoples in the environment, because there is no rich and strong Serbia, no rich and strong Serbian people, no rich and strong citizens of Serbia if their neighbours do not live in peace and prosperity. This government and this president certainly understand that. You can't be a rich and successful man if your neighbors fail. If you are like this, you will give your hand and help all those who live around you. That's the path that the government is doing today, that's the path that the president of the state is doing today, and everyone you know is enjoying the support of this Parliament, especially us SNS MPs. Finally, since I am the last for today, and also the last before these great holidays, I will take the opportunity to congratulate Serbia on the Easter holidays, to congratulate the Easter holidays on all those whom they celebrate, especially in Serbia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro, but also in all countries of the region. Serbia, happy holiday. Our people in the region, happy holiday to you, and thank you very much for everything you've done with the president for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6114	Thank you. Since we have six minutes left, the word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Please, just one lap. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6115	Of course, I'll be brief. Nearly 50% of women sit in this congregation. Almost 50% of the ministers are in the government. I would return to the beginning of our debate and refer the matter to the prime minister, but also to the Minister of Justice. We forgot the following circumstances. Two years ago, Dragan Gilas forced his ex-wife, which is a terrible, long-term violence, to agree with the BETA agency that she had lied to the police earlier. That's terrible. So, he blackmailed his ex-wife to give him, apparently, some discharge so that he wouldn't wash off his previous sins, and we know that of these sins, domestic violence can't wash him off either Sava or Danube. So, he blackmailed his victim macholy, like Mephisto, and he forced her into trouble not only with her, since giving false testimony to the police was a felony, but she didn't just make a statement, but her parents did. But we all know that she's his ex-wife and that her parents gave the truth to the police. But we see, as far as the unscrupulousness of Dragan Gilas goes, in his own size, a person in order to get forgiveness from sins that he can't get, he makes his sacrifice practically, impossible not to blackmail her, something he blackmailed her, comes to his ex-wife and says, "If you want me to keep paying you your alimony, you'll send a statement to BETI." That happened on 16 October 2019. I will end up with this being the only violence, which is of course unforgivable, which Dragan Gilas committed, but back 15 years as he has been on the political scene since 2005, he has participated in a dozen violent events. We remember how he threatened a police officer by firing him and cursing him for five years, so he attacked Alexander Mirkovic in front of the cameras in the City Assembly. I was present in 2008, when he cursed a fellow councilman at a public session in front of all the cameras and without consequences. Remember how he supported Veselinovic, who called for the prime minister's rape. It was supported by Gilas in the City Assembly. Let's remember how he cursed the students from the group who came to his protest. Well, let's remember that he led the attack on RTS, when the offended journalists, when RTS was demoted. Let's remember that he led the attack on the presidency building. Let's just remember that in the Terrace, after that he threatened the police again that they'd be out of a job. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6116	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6117	I must say, since it is already two minutes to seven and the previous MP congratulated the Easter holidays of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Easter, there is, at the door, I would like to sort of end up in this optimistic tone and ask one more competent authorities to deal with thugs, bullies, arrogant people, like Mr Gilas, and to keep all our citizens, all of our people, to wish those who celebrate, to wish peace, happiness and prosperity, and to continue to do our job and to push ourselves forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-29-0.u6118	Thank you. Please remain in your seats. Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question anymore, that is, since it is 19.00 p.m. now, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues. I thank the government's representatives, headed by Prime Minister Brnabic at his presence, and I just want to give you a few more notices. Today, a public hearing was held on constitutional changes organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, headed by Jelena Zaric, with the presence of the minister of justice, and will continue. I repeat this every day, and I will repeat it every day so that people can distinguish between important and irrelevant, because these are the things that are most important to the state, and they're conveying various misinformation, as the prime minister today said about what she didn't stress at all, and I'm saying that because it's something that everyone sees what we're doing here. We may not think they're following us or watching us, but you've also seen from these reports that for breaking the Codex, it's not like that. The second thing, a very successful meeting was held yesterday with representatives of different political parties. I thank all who are here in Parliament, who have come here. There were 26 political parties. These are parties that wanted to talk without the participation of foreigners. I also thank President Vukic, who came and participated in the meeting as President of the Republic. The meeting was very correct. Since the agreement is that these things are not spoken publicly, they will only be spoken when the agreement is fully reached. Just to point out that the high awareness shown seems to me to be of all the political actors who participated in the separation of national and national priorities from other issues that we can think of differently, but also try to agree on in a nice, cultural and politically decent way. I think we had a very successful meeting. It is agreed to create working groups to deal with specific topics and prepare the next plenary meeting on concrete topics. Since I have to chair this inter-party dialogue, based on these earlier agreements, we agreed that Aleksandar Martinovic, as president of the SNS parliamentary club, and Dejan Djurdjevic, who is head of the Working Party for Co-operation with ODIR, or OSCE, would also be on the side of opposition parties. I think maybe after a long time, it was a very important political meeting, with all the political options. It is agreed not only to be ad hoc meetings dedicated to elections, but to regular meetings, in order to encourage and strengthen mutual trust and political stability in Serbia and to be held every six months. I think we've made a significant step and after Easter we'll continue this work. I just want to end up here by adding that, apropo of what the prime minister was talking about, about some statements today and from a few days ago, about the question of women, it's interesting only to me that the Trustee for the Protection of Equality found it appropriate to comment on Dragan Markovic, not Marinika Tepic, who said that women in Jagodina are employed on the basis of association. So I want to encourage all state authorities and political entities to treat everyone equally. That means whoever's guilty doesn't have to defend anyone, but when you have to convict someone, you have to have the political courage to say publicly that it's not right, as the prime minister said today, and that, I mean, is the biggest insult to all the women who are there in Jagodina that are characterized. In the end, as is the order, let me tell you that we are continuing our meeting after the holiday, that means May 5th and 6th. On May 6th, you already know the agenda, and you know that I have already scheduled a session for May 11th and that you are counting on us to be in a permanent session by the end of the regular session, May 29th, including, of course, what the Serbian Government is proposing and delivering to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wish everyone happy May Day and, of course, one of our greatest Christian holidays. Christ's resurrection. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this time 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the meetings of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Dr. Vesna Ivković and Jelisaveta Veljković. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the law from point. From the 5th to the 7th agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management; Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavčević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs; Prof. Dr. Marijana Dukić Mijatović and Prof. Dr. Dr. Ivica Radović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development; Zoran Milosevic, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment, Borar and Social Affairs; Dr. Aleksandar Jović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Nebojša Milosevljević, Director of Plant Protection at the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management of Agriculture and Waterway. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Quebec; Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on Scientific and Technological Co-operation and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Ministers, do you want a word or not? Here you go, Daria.
