ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Marijan Risticevic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, for the ninth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly in 2021, I found the next Dn e n i d 1 Work report for 2020, which was submitted by the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 2. Regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2020, submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Equality; 3. Regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2020, submitted by the Citizens' Protector, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 4. Report on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection for 2020, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Article 4(1)(b) and (c) of CRR The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint single search be carried out on all points of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 130, for – 124, six MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. Consensually. Items 1 and 238. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Dragan Sikimić, Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Zoran Pasalić, Protector of Citizens, Brankica Janković, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Milan Marinović, Commissioner for Information and Protection of Personality Data, Mr Sanja Unković, Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Information, Jelena Stojanović, Deputy Director of the Civil Protection and Dispute Protection Agency, Ivana Cvetković, Assistant Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption in the Foreign Affairs and Strategic Development Sector, Verka Atanasković, Assistant Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Dispute Affairs, Mirjana Kecman, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and Tatjan Prijic and Daniel Šegan, more advisors of the Agency for the Protection of Equality. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on all points of the agenda. Who wants a word from the proposer's representative? There are also representatives of committees and representatives of independent regulatory bodies. The word is Mr. Bačevac, chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11958	I would like to say a few words on the conclusions of the Committee on the Review of the Regular Annual Reports of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and the Citizens' Protector for 2020, as the President-in-Office, the Honorable People's MPs and the People's MPs, as a representative of the Proposer or Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. These reports were discussed at a session held on 22 December and set out proposals for conclusions containing recommendations, above all to improve the areas of human and minority rights to which these reports relate. Independent state bodies, achieving their responsibilities as control and corrective mechanisms, aim to protect and contribute to the protection of the rights of all our citizens, as well as to strengthen the responsibility and efficiency of the public administration. The reports of the independent state authorities and their consideration in the National Assembly are indeed an important mechanism, as they draw the attention of the parliament, but also of the public of our state, to the complaints of the citizens and give us guidance on where we should strengthen that control function that we have as a Assembly. Therefore, the conclusions reached by the Assembly on these reports are very important for further improving the functioning of the state bodies that parliament oversees and controls. Also, co-operation between the National Assembly and independent state authorities and strengthening their position is not only a goal in the EU accession process, but it is an extremely important issue for strengthening state institutions, democratic institutions in our country. In that sense, the government supported and the National Assembly adopted a new legal framework for their work and action. We have, in a legislative sense, had an extremely large activity this year. As you know, we have passed a new Law on the Protector of Citizens, an extremely modern, extremely good one which really strengthens this institution in every field, but also the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Free Access to Information, as well as the Law, of public importance, on gender equality. At the same time, the government, or restoring ministries, are working to improve the strategic framework when it comes to the protection of human rights. A strategy for prevention of children from violence, a strategy for preventing and combating gender-based violence against women and domestic violence and the Strategy for Gender Equality has been adopted to date. A revision of the strategy relating to improving the position of Roma and Roma women is expected soon, as is the adoption of a new action plan for the implementation of this strategy. I think we can say, and this comes from a report from international organisations, that the legal framework is substantially in line with European law and international standards. What remains as our common task is to ensure the effective application of these laws which, once again, are very good and consistent with European norms. Finally, as for the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, co-operation with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as the Protector of Citizens has always been an important segment of our committee's work. We're active in that field. I must also commend the representatives, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens. We always do work with a strong intensity, and all in the interest of protecting all rights and freedoms of our citizens. I therefore believe that today's debate in the National Assembly will show the need or willingness for all state authorities, including the National Assembly, and its working bodies to continue to improve human and minority rights and freedoms, so I believe that the National Assembly in the voting day will adopt proposals for the conclusions of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, to consider the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as the Citizens' Protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11959	Thank you. Just to give you the information that, according to our work plan, we should finish discussing these points of the agenda in the first part of our work today. This means about 14 hours, and to discuss in the afternoon the details of the previous session and then sometime after 17 hours, we approach the vote about 17:30. I just want to remind you that we are finishing a regular session today. That's what the work would have done today. The second thing, since these proposings and representatives of independent regulatory bodies and committee presidents are, let's take the lead, let's finish with the board presidents. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and control of public spending, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11960	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of institutions that are in the power of the Assembly's work, today's session will in fact be a session that we want to sum up together this year, but also the previous year based on your work each and every one of us in our area. What the Finance Committee has been up to is the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption in the part relating to the spending of public funds and that part of monitoring all legal solutions that directly affect the spending of public funds and budgets. At the 58th session of the Committee, held on 10 December, in accordance with Article 39(1). The law on the prevention of corruption and our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Agency is required to submit a report by 31 March for the previous year. What we were very interested in was this area of material finance business, especially since it was 2020. It's a year of pandemic time and it's a year and holding elections, I'll remind you, when we talk about parliamentary and local elections, which, of course, carried with it certain obligations of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of course, she also wore the obligation to apply a new law that began, in fact, to apply, especially in its own specifics that I think represent a new part of jurisdiction. Especially that two-degree thing that you had to do was make your own commitment to the Council election, and especially this part that concerns the election itself. As a result of the functioning of not only your institutions, but also the institution at all at the time of the pandemic tells us that many activities have been reduced and that this planned budget, which was from 312 million 878 dinars, has been audited to 292 million 599 dinars, and is actually realised at 94.48%. That, then, was the total execution of 276 million 436 thousand dinars. When we talk about software activities, they have three of the most important things that are actually in that part of the budget and realised. It's prevention of corruption and control, which is about 266 million, which is 94% of this plan, or budget. Then, donations to the civil sector are a million and 440, which is about 8%. The parliamentary elections that were the greatest item and obligation, it is 24 million 895 thousand dinars. The projected funds for parliamentary elections have been realised at close to 95%. The agency, by the way, had to turn in its business in 2020 to the realization of technical capabilities when it comes to IT equipment. First, because it is also committed to the Action Plan under Chapter 23 to implement and form conditions for the national criminal intelligence system. These are certain types of registers, data keeping in line, of course, with the Development Strategy. When it comes to the IT sector itself and the digitisation of the entire state system, the Agency cannot be excluded from it either. So she practically did get new equipment that should actually represent technical safety of functioning on these issues. What has to be said is that funding of course the Agency itself goes through certain penalties committed by misdemeanor courts. Thus, in 2020, misdemeanor courts under the Corruption Prevention Act had a certain type of collection, but most of them related to political activities. So the most important thing was the court in Belgrade, then a little less in Valjevo, Užica, Novi Sad and Subotica. The revenues of these fees amounted to 2.5 million, two million 531 thousand, and the part relating to part of the education for lobbyists should be said that 65 students completed that training and the Agency's income was direct to 2925,000 dinars. What is important for today's conditions, we talked about 2020, but on the Committee we were very interested in what is going on with the activities of the Agency itself, because we have an announcement of the upcoming referendum. All the conditions have been created to implement both the referendum campaign and transparency in the process itself and the process that when we speak at all about laws that are interesting, I think for civil society, because we have received in writing questions from the Transparency of Serbia, which is one of the NGOs in the National Convention that is interested in certain legal solutions when it comes to the Law on the financing of political activities and that is what we have received, the decadent answers that all the recommendations of ODIR are accepted 100%, that as regards even the prescribed infringement measures relating to the infringements in the activities themselves are defined much more precisely and the part that is very interesting to us, which is when it comes to groups of citizens who go to the elections. Their process of work has now been further defined, especially since we had bad examples here in the congregation. I remind you that certain groups of citizens entered the Assembly as Members of Parliament, and then here they acted as complete individuals and those who were the first on the list of those groups of citizens in this financial sense made their own personal contribution to that group of citizens' financial resources from the budget. The state had no mechanisms to prevent it in a certain way, except that it could control through tax authorities and reports. So it's a good thing that many things are defined in detail now by law and what was most important for us, it's a public debate when it comes to the laws on financing political activities, certain complements and public hearings. The part ended on December 14th, they sent to the finance ministry for consideration and is now awaiting the finance ministry to give its specific opinion and its solutions. When it comes to the addition of the Law on lobbying and that part of the register, it was also one of the issues of civil society, and there the Agency came up with its proposals and part of the risks related to the very part of corruption in public procurement. We know that otherwise Transparency as an NGO is also monitoring the work of the Finance Committee and the laws that are from that area, it is about to focus on public procurement. We also believe that this part of the legal solutions, given that there is an office, the Commission for the Protection of Vendors in Public Procurement Procedures, the Committee, external audit, internal audit, we think that the Agency also has its part, that many of these mechanisms have been developed. Now, of course, there are always better solutions for that, but we want to see these results, after all, that are given in new solutions, and we think that so far this is all very well done. I think the Agency's work has now received significant reinforcements through a second degree, through a larger one, which makes certain decisions, a completely modern way of functioning as far as the Agency is concerned, with what, I'm going to tell you that, probably all colleagues here will agree, somehow always the greatest focus on MPs. We don't have a problem with that, but ultimately, we want other officials of this type, such as local officials, executive officials, that lower rank, always in the same light and rank as MPs, because ultimately, the greater transparency in society when it comes to preventing corruption, we think it brings progress to society. I think we agree here with the Agency that simply greater control with greater coverage of all the factors in society brings real progress to society. So we adopted a proposal for a conclusion that we adopted the report for 2020 of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and we believe that we call on the MPs of course to also accept the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11961	Thank you to the Finance Committee. The word has an authorised representative of the Committee for Justice, State Administration and local self-government, Djordje Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11962	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the independent bodies, the Justice Committee adopted a conclusion that supports the reports that were in front of us at the Committee's session. We have carefully read all the reports and what is good to point out, is that there has been an increase in the volume of work in almost all independent bodies. We have data that the Anti-Corruption Agency has processed a large number of demands, that officials have addressed themselves to a much greater extent than before, almost 60% more consent has been sought. Therefore, this shows that the need for everything to be done in the legal frameworks has been raised and that more functions are required for the Agency's consent and the Agency has always come out, in almost 80% of cases with positive conclusions. Also, the Citizens' Protector had a significantly higher number of addresses, 67% more than in 2019. This is an indication that citizens have and how awareness of the need and the way in which they can also be instructed to protect their rights. It's something that's certainly positive, and I'm sure in the coming years, it's going to increase the number of people who talk. The trustee for the protection of equality has also addressed 3,000 citizens in 2019. 89% of performances solved. The media was also very well followed. Therefore, it shows, again, that our citizens have a growing awareness of the need to protect their rights in this way. All the independent bodies that are here today before us, the founder of the National Assembly, submit reports to the National Assembly, in this way in co-operation, together with the National Assembly, we exercise all those rights when it comes to the control of the executive authority. It's something that should happen today anyway. However, that was not the case until nine years ago. We are witnessing that in 2012, the practical work of independent bodies was absolutely negligible, because if it hadn't been for the Anti-Corruption Agency, it would certainly have had something to say about the obvious cases of violations of the law when, for example, the former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, reported the 74 thousand euros of income he had when he entered politics, so after coming out of politics he came out weighing hundreds of millions of euros. The agency's not responding. This was an indicator of how the state functioned then and how independent bodies were directly controlled by the former regime. That's not the case today. We are talking about all these reports here, and we see that many SNS officials are being written against whenever we have a problem, the Anti-Corruption Agency, writes, regardless of the party's book, applications. That's how it's supposed to be. We wanted to create such a state and our citizens have exactly the intensities to be the state in which they will stay and want to live. So that the law is applied equally to everything, regardless of the party's book. We certainly demonstrated it not only when it comes to the work of independent bodies, today and how, when anyone breaks the law in our country, they get sanctioned. We had dozens of criminal charges, arrests of our officials, prominent officials in the previous period, and in this way the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, shows what state we want to build. That, I say, wasn't the case and that's something we can freely say was very bad in the previous period. They didn't pay attention to the work of independent bodies. You've seen almost a transcript of how the former regime's representatives spoke, so the police shouldn't have been on the street to legitimize them without threatening a police officer to be removed. Cops get fired whenever they look at them in the street. It was a manners until 2012. It's all today and how it's changed. I'm going to use the time I have as a proposing representative to take a brief look at the previous calendar year. In the last year, the National Assembly adopted over 200 acts. We are here and how we have made a significant contribution to the development of our country, we have adopted many positive legal solutions that have allowed our country to develop faster. I would point out the simplification of the investment procedures in our country. We have adopted many of those positive things when it comes to digitising public administration, the register of public procedures, simplified all the procedures that investors had in mind when they were talking to our state authorities about what needs to be changed. We also adopted guarantee schemes that we have made a significant contribution to further maintaining the current liquidity. Our country today stands financially stable, we record a record growth rate of 7.5%, GDP growth. All of this is, I say, and how the contribution of the National Assembly, given that many legal solutions have been adopted, and that is what is important here to point out. No one today, who is objective, can deny that in Serbia today is a completely different situation than before 2012. Today Serbia is a completely different place to live. Wherever you look, any aspect of social life, you're going to see a completely different picture than that of the abandoned, sparring country that was here by 2012. We all remember, it wasn't that long ago, we remember that we didn't have enough money to keep the current problems, to invest in the traffic that we found, which we had here, let alone build new ones. All 30km of highways were built at a time when representatives of the former regime, who today tend to come back to the full state register, built 30km, and we already have 400km of completed highways in full profile. Next year, we want to build, or already, machines, while I'm saying this, they're working on other corridors, other directions. Next year we will build over a thousand kilometers of highways and President Aleksandar Vukic will discuss it in detail tonight at 1800 hours when we will present exactly what exactly we want to invest and what will be planned for next year. We also remember the destroyed army, the destroyed health care, how the state led to only ten years ago, and we remember how everything they destroyed simply, how they managed to destroy our economy, themselves personally enriched. It's something that can never happen again to our country. Today when we look at, I say, any part of Serbia, we can see a completely different picture than that period that unfortunately was behind us. In a visit to Raška and Zlatibor County from which I come, President Aleksandar Vukic said in the previous two days what we want to do next year. Two hundred million euros, respected Serbian citizens, will be invested in only the two districts next year. So much has not been invested in our districts in the past, I feel free to say, 70 years. We'll have a completely reconstructed traffic station, all the local roads, the president spoke about it in detail yesterday, which will be planned to reconstruct next year. Besides, we're doing a piece to Požega. About a few hours ago, I passed Chačka, the asphalt is already in place, it will be by January, or by 7 January, by Christmas, there will be a complete share of Preljina to Pakovra and that is Serbia as we have built today. On all sides you can see machines, you can see rapid growth, rapid development. I don't remember the last 10 years, before 2012, being done absolutely, there was absolutely no investment from the state level. It's completely changed today. Today we have an announcement that next year, it is certainly important news for the citizens of Užica and Novi Pazar, 80 million will be invested in the Health Center of Užica and 70 million in the Health Center of Novi Pazar. It's definitely things that completely change the face of our country and we're proud of it. This is something to talk about, because it wasn't that long ago when nothing was invested in our country, it didn't invest anything. The next year, in 2022, there will be a year that will contribute even more to what we are talking about today. That year, we'll be able to see a different picture completely. We'll have 10 new corridors, 10 new highways completed, and certainly that's what citizens expect of us. That's our policy, we stand for the development of our country. As we talk about visions, as we talk about programmes, as we talk about how we want to build our country, on the other hand you see that our opposition here, which has no way to animate its electoral body, reaches for those most primitive insults, primarily President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, so no wonder that the tycoon weekly "Time" two days ago declared Goran Markovic a person of the year. He was likely running for the title by announcing that President Aleksandar Vukic would be shot as he said he was shot at Ceausescu. Now, that's how this part of the opposition spectrum in Serbia works today. In the most primitive ways, insult the mother, father, child of Alexander Vukic, and you will be sure that the personality of the year they want, let me say, to present to the citizens of Serbia. It's their program. Instead of talking and competing who will present a better programme for our country's development, who will announce more investment, to deal with what is really the interest of the citizens of our country, we are dealing here in which all the way the president will be shot and how the opposition sees it as the only way to come into power. We have to disappoint them. This isn't 1945. No one in Serbia is going to shoot anyone. Not Wolf Jeremic here, like his grandfather Hamdi Pozderac in 1945, will send anyone to Goli Island, no one will end up in pits. Those rematch stories are absolutely declassified. We say go to the elections, beat us in the elections, if you beat us you will come to power because the SNS brought the people in 2012. A people who wanted to break the continuity of a robbery group that came to power after 2000, after the Petoctobar coup, who destroyed everything they had reached. Today, when the people no longer allow these experts to even challenge the censorship, they reach for these most primitive methods. I say once again, it is certainly a reflection of their impotence and we will in the coming years try to present to the citizens what the programmes are, what visions are, and of course we will defend the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're not gonna let anyone change power here past the election. In the elections, it comes to power, elections are being held and left power. We will, if the people say we should leave power, leave, but it has proved in the past nine years that the people have been giving growing and greater support to President Alexander Vukic and SNS's policies. Therefore, we will continue to represent and defend this people's will. Only the people can say who's going to be asking about the state here, who's going to run the state, and they're not going to be doing it by foreign embassies or anyone on the side. This is where the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia are asked. Therefore, I wish all citizens happy Christmas and New Year's holidays. In the following year, we need to achieve all the goals outlined. I guess I won't be answering on this subject again, so once again, we'll be working and next year, to make this country an even nicer, even more decent place to live. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11963	I also thank the Justice Committee. Is there anyone else who might want a word? No, I don't. ) If no one is answering, we move on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. He is the first president of the MP Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party, MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11964	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, citizens and citizens, today we have very important reports on the agenda. The proof of the existence of your institutions or institutions that you represent is proof that we live in a democratic society, a democratic system, which, of course, improves from day to day and proves that the political elite has decided to have institutions that control the government. It's something that's very good and important. All the reports we are talking about today are very important institutions and they mean a lot in the life of an ordinary citizen. I think they mean a lot to the authorities, no matter who is in today or in the future, because the existence of such institutions, independent regulatory bodies, adds to one legitimacy. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, it is a very important institution. The fight against crime and corruption is one of the main tasks of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is something that has led the party to justice and reconciliation as the strongest Bosniak party and supports the government of the Republic of Serbia. Clearly, we have visible results when it comes to fighting corruption. But it's something that's a story without end. Simply, from the beginning of humanity, from the first man to the first woman to the day of today's corruption is something that is present and modern democracy, the cradles of modern democracy, such as the United States, we have seen that former President Trump face corruption charges from day to day. So, we are no exception to that, but your institution's existence is very important, so that citizens and citizens can be sure that the political elites that run this country run this society, that they are controlled, that their work is monitored, whether these political entities are individuals in power or in opposition. What bothers me in principle and what I think we need to change in our culture and conduct and in that public discourse and some mentality and habits, is to generalize things. You know, if a moral, human, responsible man is involved in any business, including politics, that job is human. If someone who doesn't have strong moral principles, moral beliefs and values, and deals with any work, then he's a teacher, a doctor, a cop, that job won't be human, but not because of generalization of that job, as we often have a case when it comes to politics and politicians, so something is generalized. It's something simple that bothers me. Simply, when moral, responsible people deal with both politics and education and medicine, this job is human, honest and responsible. We said that corruption is a global problem, and that's something we're going to meet in the future. It is very important to fight this monster and therefore the existence of the Anti-Corruption Agency is important. Among other things, the international community's top representatives in every contact point out, both in Europe and when they come here to us, that fighting corruption is one of the priorities. As for the Guardian of Citizens, I'm glad we have this report here today, and I think it's a very important institution. I think you've been doing a very important and responsible job over the last year. It is an institution that exists for a citizen to have his protector in front of the system, someone who protects his rights if any of the people representing the system dares to violate the right of the citizen. I just want to remind you, I think it's very easy to go over some things from a closer past or closer to history. I'm glad that in your pattern of conduct we don't notice what could be seen in your predecessor, that he was more involved in marketing and in his positioning in society and in his popularity, not in the fundamental struggle for citizens' rights. The protection of citizens is an important institution for all citizens, especially representatives of minority communities. I am a representative of the Bosniak people, according to the latest census of one third of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, are representatives of minority communities. It is also very important to the existence of your institutions as an additional mechanism and protection, as well as the trust that citizens have with the state when they know there are institutions, such as the Protector of Citizens. I will remind, dear colleagues, your representatives of independent regulatory bodies, as well as citizens and citizens, that, for example in 2010, elections for the Bosniak national council were held and when the list of the Bosniak cultural community, Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, won, these elections, by the then government, the political elite, were suspended and the work was suspended. Now, in such a sign of a democratic system, we've functioned, and today we have no idea what democracy is, what is the rule of law. What would I tell you and all the representatives of the regulatory bodies, as a question, I think last year we were talking about decentralisation of your institutions, I don't know how far they got on that plan? Did something work out? I really appeal to you, but also to all the other authorities, as far as I'm concerned, my parliamentary groups and I mean all MPs, that you will have partners to fight together, that we have these regional offices, which will make your work more visible and efficient. I think it's in the interest of the ruling majority, in the interest of your institutions, but primarily in the interest of citizens and citizens, which is why, of course, we all do all this. As for the Trustee of Equality, also one year full of challenges. I also want to commend your work. A very important institution. I've spoken here several times, when we talked about the independent regulatory body for electronic media REM, that for me and I think about most of the decent people in this country, the unacceptable discourse we have in public. So, labeling people, threats, please, you say, certain people, claim when they win the election, I'll cut someone, whip them. What are we talking about here? It is very important that your institutions take a position, as it is said, not by grandmother, not by uncles, even if someone from my party says so, I will condemn it. Please, we can't let people who are political champions, who think of themselves as some kind of leaders, be able to compete and compete in ideas, in programs, offer various platforms, but threaten, don't God kill anyone, label family members, our children, our relatives are not obliged to suffer because their parents do public work. You know, I wouldn't want my son or any of our children to be the target, and of course, for that reason I'm acting and talking about this because his father is doing some public work, in this case, politics. If you have something to do with my policy or anyone's policy, you face attitudes, criticise politics, not people. I think that's where you react very often, but I think it's even more important to hear your attitude and voice more often. What I want to ask you, too, is, you've often talked about violence in reality programs. That violence, as we can see, has not stopped, but I want to ask you, what are you going to do about violence on the Internet? We see that a lot of young people, unfortunately, even raises their hands to themselves. So, we have brutal campaigns against certain people, YouTubes, I don't know what we're going to call them, or simply, we have this peer violence in schools, which is being passed on to social networks, so I'm wondering what you're going to do about it and what you're doing. As for the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, I am pleased to talk about your report, and I am glad that we live in society, that we speak in parliament where there is no taboo of political issues. Simply, everything that interests citizens and citizens what the representatives of the government, representatives of institutions, representatives of public enterprises, citizens in accordance with the law have the right to know. What I specifically want to ask you is, I am asked to ask a question, what is happening to the case of citizen Amela Kurbegovic, who is leading a dispute against local self-government in Prepolje? They're his data or some competent departments there, that his personal data was unauthorized to give to others. Thank you. In voting day, our parliamentary group will support all reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11965	Thank you. The representatives of the institutions whose reports we are discussing came forward. The word is by the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Dragan Sikimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11966	Dear Chairman, Mr Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extraordinary honor for me to address you and present a report on the work of the Corruption Prevention Agency for 2020. The year the report refers to has marked the epidemiological challenges unprecedented, resulting in the construction of integrity and consistent application of corruption prevention mechanisms. This has been a particularly important year for us, and since the Law on the Prevention of Corruption began on September 1st. We welcome the adoption of this law by adopting new necessary sublegal acts, new employment, professional training of employees, as well as comprehensive institutional and technical adjustments to achieve an even higher degree of efficiency and efficiency in work. I would also take advantage of this opportunity to point out that the support received from the competent state institutions in the light of the creation of a basis for strengthening the financial, staff and technical capacity of the Agency, which was one of the recommendations of the Agency's annual work report, but also of the international community, has become even more important, given that we made significant joint efforts last year to adapt to new circumstances, and to ensure the continuity of the appropriate implementation of activities and projects, and thus our preventive control and supervisory powers. Although we will conclude this in the new annual report for 2021, it is also important to mention that the need for an authentic interpretation of the provisions regarding the performance of other work or the work of public functions requiring full-time work, or permanent work, is resolved by the recent adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. These amendments have also been more precisely defined in certain provisions, to which the Agency also indicated after one year of application of the new law, all done in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice. I would also point out that the implementation of the 2020 budget was 94.48% of the appropriations, which has already been reported in more detail by the Committee of the National Assembly for Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. In addition to the annual report on the work of the National Assembly, we also submitted the first report on the implementation of the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23, sub-chapter – Combating Corruption, and under the new Anti-Corruption Act, which is entrusted to us with monitoring the implementation of strategic documents. In 2020 they marked elections for MPs, MPs in the AP Vojvodina and committee members in the largest number of local self-government units. When the Agency carried out the control of the spending of the election campaign, with the control of the regular financing of political entities. In particular, the agency controlled 67 reports on election campaign costs and 22 annual political entities' financial reports for 2019. 55 procedures have been initiated on suspicion of breach of the Law on the financing of political activities, 35 of which refer to the election campaign, 28 alerts were issued, seven of which were issued on the basis of reports filed against political entities, five of them and in connection with the election campaign, and 21 of the warning measures were given on official duty based on the control of submitted reports by political entities. A report has also been filed to the D.A. on suspicion that the person responsible in the political entity has committed a criminal offence. The procedure before the D.A.'s office is under way. Due to violations of the Law on the financing of political activities, the Agency has filed a total of 255 requests for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. Based on the judicial rulings, nine decisions on the loss of the right to obtain funds from public sources intended to finance regular work in the following year have been made. The agency hired 120 observers to monitor the promotional and pre-election activities of political entities to control the costs of the election campaign. Amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, the then Act on the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Anti-Corruption Law, have been amended as a normative framework for the conduct of the Agency in the case of use of public resources, both from political entities, or political parties, from the coalition of groups of citizens and from public officials. The Agency is obliged to act within a very short period of five days from the receipt of the application, i.e. from the initiation of the formal procedure, which is the obligation to which it has responded in good time and effectively. According to each application, the Agency acted by taking on the official duty and much wider than the allegations made in the application itself. In addition to the reports already mentioned, the Agency has acted on the same basis in 50 cases against public officials and has brought four measures of public publication of resolution recommendations and seven measures of warning. In the area of conflict of interest, 875 public officials' demands for consent were resolved, which is 58.23% more than in 2019. 1,510 procedures for resolving conflicts of interest have also been completed, which is 13.11% higher than in 2019. In the course of 2020, in line with the Annual Plan, the report on the assets and revenues of public officials, as well as through extraordinary procedures, was carried out to check the report of 262 public officials. The Agency has issued 224 measures for breach of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, i.e. the Anti-Corruption Act, and has submitted 29 requests to initiate the infringement procedure. The competent prosecutors have received 13 criminal charges and reports on grounds of suspicion that officials, in order to conceal the property, have not provided the Agency or provided false information on the property, i.e. on the grounds of suspicion that they have committed any other criminal act for which prosecution is committed under official duty. It has also been successfully continued with activities related to the new jurisdiction entrusted to the Agency by lobbying. The training of the candidates for lobbyists conducted by the Agency during 2020 has been successful by 65 candidates, 25 of whom are enrolled in the Register of lobbyists, as well as two legal entities engaged in lobbying. When it comes to strengthening personal institutional integrity, a system of support for public sector institutions has been developed at all levels of government to develop integrity plans, 42 integration plans for all types of institutions that are obliged to draw up a plan, as well as a guidelines for the development and implementation of integrity plans for the third cycle of its development. The programme of training in the area of preventing corruption and strengthening integrity, the Guide for implementation of the training programme, as well as the Guide for their application, has also been developed. The Agency has implemented an upgrade of the single information system, i.e. all application modules of the system, new web forms of forms, a report on the assets and revenues of public officials, a notice of entry and termination of public function, a registration of gifts, a notice of participation in the procurement process, privatisation or in another procedure, the outcome of which is the conclusion of the contract with the public authority, making it easier to fulfil the obligations of public officials and public authorities, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act, while at the same time enabling the Agency to work more efficiently. A comprehensive improvement of IT infrastructure has been implemented so that it can respond to requirements, such as connection to the network of state authorities, network services of other authorities and the National Criminal Intelligence System (NKOS). In the domain of international co-operation, the Agency notes significant successes, which you have had the opportunity to inform yourself from the Annual Report. On this occasion, I would point out that in 2018 we were the founders of the Global Network of Corruption Prevention Institutions, then two years in a row of vice presidents, and in late 2020 we were elected President of the Network for 2021. The network is currently gathering 31 members, with one observer and five partner institutions. Finally, I would point out that preventing corruption is not and cannot be successful without co-operation with all actors at national and international level, to which we are particularly committed. In addition to excellent co-operation with the National Assembly, I would like to highlight the extremely successful and effective co-operation with the Ministry of Interior, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of European Integration, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, the Republic Geodetic Office, the Agency for Economic Registers, the State Audit Institute, the special departments for the control of corruption, senior public prosecutors and senior courts, as well as other competent state bodies, independent bodies and civil society organisations and media. We have significantly improved co-operation with criminal courts and developed a manual on the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of the offence. We are extremely grateful for the support provided by international partners in 2020: the European Union, USAID - Project for Responsible Authority, the OSCE Mission in Serbia, the US Ministry of Justice, the International Foundation for Election Systems, and among the projects launched are projects supported by the Council of Europe and the Swedish International Development Agency, then the World Bank, as well as the Regional Anti-Corruption Initiative, the UN Office for Drugs and Crime with the support of the Austrian Development Agency. In the end, I would add that we have done everything possible to ensure that under the circumstances that have affected both the Republic of Serbia and the whole world we continue to enforce the law of the prescribed jurisdiction in an effective and effective way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11967	Thank you. The word is Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11968	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, you are presented with the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors for 2020. That year was a sign of the Kovida-19 epidemic in which we had unusual challenges for the protection of human rights, which, I may say, we were able to deal with. It is an honor and a pleasure to present to you the results of the work of the only national human rights protection institution I am managing, because you MPs, who are representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are the only ones who can control the work of the Civil Protection Institution. I am particularly emphasising this on the reasons for many ideas that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is being checked and controlled, and the law and the Constitution only stipulates that it can be done by the National Assembly. I primarily think of what the daily speech calls the NGO sector, those who think that they are in a position to control the Protector of Citizens, which, I have repeatedly pointed out publicly and now use this opportunity to say it in this home, absolutely, absolutely incompatible with the function of the Protector of Citizens and with the Constitution and the law on certain restrictions and rights of the institution of the Protector of Citizens. In the last year, the protection of citizens at the time of the pandemic that covered the whole world, and unfortunately our country, too, was literally forced to work under completely, completely extraordinary circumstances. She demanded protection measures both in certain segments and in times that we couldn't predict how long it would take. For this reason, all of its capacities were focused on emergency and direct action towards the citizens by the citizens of Protector institutions. What I can say is that for the reason that we did so in 2020, when we had 67% of the more than the previous year, Serbian citizens have given us some trust, which I will talk about a little later. The largest number of complaints concerned the exercise of the rights of members of sensitive groups, children, young women, especially women who are victims of domestic violence, chronic patients, persons with disabilities and old persons deprived of LGBT populations, members of national minorities, above all, Roma. During almost two months of state of emergency, we increased surveillance on the ground, extended our working hours to all seven days a week, and introduced five new phone lines, not that the citizens could turn at an interval of eight to 22 hours. We have carried out field controls to check the conditions in which citizens are located, especially sensitive groups, children, persons with disabilities, Roma, migrants, as well as persons deprived of freedom. The effort shown by the Civil Protection Institution has affected the rise of trust in the institution in which I run it, which is confirmed by two separate surveys of public opinion. The first to be done immediately after the end of the emergency situation in May 2020 showed that citizens had the highest confidence in the Civil Protection Institution, while the second survey in December of the same year showed that the Citizens' Protector was the first institution in which citizens would address themselves. In 2020, 18,165 citizens turned to the public, which is 67% higher, as I said from the previous year, we received more than 5,000 complaints the same year, which is an increase of about 54% compared to 2019. The majority of complaints were related to the work of the executive authorities, more specifically the ministries nearly 21%. In the report year, we completed 80% of the cases, representing an increase of about 12% compared to 2019 and referred about 15% more recommendations than a year earlier. Citizens in 2020, as well as the previous two, addressed the Citizens' Protector most for the protection of economic and property rights, 30% indicating the unfavourable economic position of citizens, but the shortcomings in the work of the competent authorities in this area. The rights related to the principles of good administration and social cultural rights have also been highly ranked. In 2020, I continued the practice of International Co-operation with the Ombudsmans from the countries and regions of Europe and the Euro-Asian Alliance of the Ombudsman, which we mainly communicated with because of the epidemiological situation through video conferences, but what I particularly appreciate is that this communication has not stopped, has not even been reduced in time, let me say, the expansions of the Covid virus – 19 and the conclusions that we have made, which are linked to the ombudsman networks of both Europe and beyond. I think that in common platforms we gave good recommendations to the institutions, which we are obliged to control and that they have been re-focused on a better and faster opportunity for citizens to exercise their rights. I would point out only an example of the possibility of citizens coming from Western Europe to the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of the epidemic, was constrained by mandatory quarantines of the minority in each country and that there was no co-operation, primarily bilateral co-operation with the Ombudsman of other countries, so that it would be far more difficult to allow them to come to the Republic of Serbia faster and easier. Given that the instability of the epidemiological situation, I would like to point out the need to improve the work of all competent authorities in order to exercise the rights of citizens, especially under unusual circumstances, as Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will continue to respond to all the failures of the competent authorities, advise citizens and submit initiatives to amend the applicable regulations. Our efforts to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the exercise of their rights are not only recognised by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but by the subcommittee on the recredit of the global alliance of national human rights institutions GAVRI, a network of all ombudusmans in the world, and the highest network that practically operates in the UN, Geneva, which gives right to the holder of A status, which we have retained and re-credited, to speak to the UN when it comes to the issue of human rights. It wasn't easy, because that recredit lasted a year, which isn't common, is not a place where I would really bother you with the procedure that the Civil Protection Institution had to go through to get re-accredited, but we're really happy, because it once again showed that the Civil Protection Institution was doing its job properly. The report on the work of the Citizens' Protector institutions also refers for the reporting period to what we have started, and the maltenes since the beginning of my mandate, although this was due to be completed in 2016, which is the creation of a new law on the protection of citizens, which has been completed, as you know, has been completed, has been voted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year, which is fully in line with the Venice principles. The new Law on the Protector of Citizens adopted on November 3rd, this year, recognises the Protector of Citizens as an institution that has knowledge and capacity to exercise additional competences. Since you're familiar with these extra powers, I really wouldn't be burdening your time. What is also important is that the Citizens' Protector became a national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking, and also performs tasks and a national independent mechanism, along with monitoring the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. What I just said, and this is the Citizens' Protector, who became a national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking, is very important for some activities that are currently on the agenda and which are very active in protecting citizens. Because of these activities he has carried out and are done to detail, he can defend everything he has given in his report. In the next period, we plan to focus the experience gained in the emerging situation on helping citizens to achieve guaranteed rights, as well as on finding system solutions for different situations and challenges that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia face. In the context of what I last said, I would take this opportunity, because the honourable MP Samir Tandir has referred, which is a matter of trust, but I think it refers to the institution of the Protector of Citizens, or two questions, so I will be free to comment, or to give some kind of an answer. As far as the first question is concerned, which is the decentralisation of the U.S. Civil Protection Institution, and the Citizens' Protector, as you know, have their offices in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Indeed, it would not be a problem if these offices were opened in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. What has shown experience on the ground is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia have confidence in the institution of the Citizens' Protectors and in the function I perform, which has shown that every time we move outside of Belgrade, and that was very often in the pre-contamination period, he has little to say, slowed down, which does not mean that the same dynamics will not continue next year, that it is, in fact, a real effect when, in direct contact between the Citizens' Protectors and citizens who complain on any basis, if necessary in the local environment, in local self-government if there are elements then and far, far from at a higher level. The second question, MP Tandir titled it violence on the Internet. We have such a situation now that the Internet has become a polygon, and I really apologize to this appreciated home for using that expression, for various experiences, without any measure, without any restrictions, often in anonymous frames, although it can always be determined who it is and where it sent a certain comment on the Internet. To this extent, it was a wave that what was once a judge in the Criminal Court included in the scope of a violation against public order and peace, which infuriates other persons, virtually disrupts public order and peace by making analogy with the fact that if someone offends you on the street, if someone curses you on the street, if he tells you something ugly, it will be sanctioned, and you have such a function on social networks or on the Internet, to cut short, to absolutely remain in one domain that no one has ever controlled, nor has such a step sanctioned. The citizen's protector is a member of the government's working group on the protection of journalists. With a large number of attacks on journalists through social networks, the Citizens' Protector delivered to the government's Working Group two weeks ago the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Order and Peace, precisely in order to regulate the behaviour on social networks, primarily violence and threats. This draft, drawn up by the Protector of Citizens, aims to protect both journalists and all citizens from threats, from insults and violence. We have witnessed media writing that violence on the Internet has contributed to a tragedy in which one life of a young woman has been extinguished. That's why I think it's important that in the coming year, in detail we arrange this unsettled sphere and protect every citizen from threats, insults and violence on the Internet. I apologize for the extensiveness, but I felt that the question of a respected MP was also directed towards the institution of the Protector of Citizens. Thank you for your patience. I'm at your disposal for all your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11969	Thank you. The word is the Trustee for the Protection of Equality Brankica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11970	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs and MPs, you have been given the Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2020, which marked several good events that had a direct effect on the work of the institution. First of all, it characterised the ongoing health crisis caused by the Kovida19 virus, which led to intensive work and active action to prevent and protect citizens from discrimination being of particular importance. As is known last year, parliamentary and local elections were held. The constitution of the National Assembly in the new assembly has affected the process of electing the Commissioners to be implemented after a six-month break since the end of the previous term, so that the institutions were unable to function fully during the six-month period. Desiring to present the situation and challenges more vividly during 2020, but to point out unequivocally in ways to overcome certain still current problems, the report has a slightly different form than in previous years, because we have just focused on establishing a balance between the protection of human rights, respect for human rights and the minimisation of the various social and economic consequences that this crisis has caused, which is what all other state authorities and most of the government of the Republic of Serbia have been focusing on. Over 3,000 citizens and citizens addressed the trustee during 2020, mainly with an emergency support application to assist in the exercise of rights and, or services due to the epidemiological crisis, which is understandable. In view of the need for urgent action, we have responded most frequently to the recommendations of measures to achieve equality of initiatives, warnings, statements or problem-solving directly by telephone, as the conduct of procedures in such a situation would be completely without purpose for citizens and citizens who expressed the need for emergency assistance or support. In terms of standard complaints and cases which we have conducted in regular situations, the Trustee acted in 1,188 cases, of which 674 are subject to complaints within the meaning of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. In this respect, a small number of opinions on the violation of the Law on the prohibition of discrimination have also been adopted. In addition to opinions in individual procedures, 476 recommendations have been made. The trend of follow-up to recommendations has continued. In the previous year, 89% of the recommendations were implemented. There have been 12 initiatives to amend the rules, 12 opinions on draft laws and other acts, 12 public warnings, 23 statements, as well as two criminal charges for causing hatred and intolerance to members of the Roma national minority. Prior to the introduction of the state of emergency, the Commissioner addressed to the local self-government units recommendations related to improving gender equality and ensuring greater participation of women in political public decision-making, as well as greater participation of young people in the work of local self-government units. Some of the effects of these recommendations are seen in the congregations of cities and municipalities immediately before the elections. Following the adoption of the Emergency Declaration Decision, the Trustee intensified the monitoring of the situation, pointed to various problems and proposed concrete solutions to their overcoming. Three hundred twelve recommendations on measures and 12 initiatives were addressed to improve the position of population groups, which were at greater risk of discrimination and more vulnerable due to the pandemic. Examples work, I'll name a few. The recommendations concerned the provision of adequate and timely information and information regarding crisis events and ways to overcome it in accessible formats for our people with disabilities, above all, those with sensory damage, the regular provision of home assistance services to all users and the provision of the necessary permits for the movement of persons providing this assistance, the need for social protection services and assistance programmes to cover all persons who are in a state of need of recommendation and initiative for broader coverage, economic aid measures and others. Also, during the crisis, the specific needs of different social groups that are at increased risk of discrimination, the need to give a timely response to the situation, the need to possess as precise data as possible about the population as possible so that some groups of citizens are not left out of certain measures, the need to establish co-operation and involve as many representatives of vulnerable groups as possible in creating a response to the crisis, the need to encourage volunteerism and social responsibility, to specify the provisions of certain regulations such as rules on working from home, security and health at work and others. Our practice has confirmed the need for continuous provision of services, especially from the social and health care system during the crisis for all users, of course and all citizens, but still the development of all services in the community and accommodation services in the required scope, as well as the palitative care in the last days of life. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which were referred to us by a number of complaints or other types of citizens, we believe that they were timely and gave appropriate results and preserved a large number of jobs and helped a large number of our citizens, but it has proved necessary, in line with the requirements of the profession and the daily analysis of the situation, to plan and change the measures and adapt them to real needs, especially more vulnerable categories of the population and to leave enough time for citizens to inform and apply them. When it comes to measures of economic support for the population and the economy, it turns out that better target and focus were needed on those citizens who were particularly affected, such as families with more children, the poorest, those who were jobless or lost, in fact without any income, instead of equal support for all our citizens. Also, it turns out that more accurate information on the population is needed in order to achieve better and more efficient results, so, indeed, after the end of this crisis, this pandemic, it should indeed be possible that all together, of course, in different formats. We approach a detailed analysis of the measures and their implementation in order to welcome future similar crises more ready as a society and provide an even more adequate and even better answer, because it is all a chance that this will not be the last crisis of this kind in the future. When it comes to complaints from citizens and citizens, the largest number of people is that of discrimination, age, nationality or ethnic origin, gender, disability, followed by marital and family status or any other personal property, such as property, etc. I don't want to count it all. You have, of course, everything in detail in the report. When it comes to social relations, the most complaints are filed in proceedings before public authorities, and secondly in the employment or work process, then in the provision of public services or in the use of facilities and at the end of education and education. The territorial deployment of the complainants, there was a slightly greater equation than in earlier years. The largest number of complaints came from Belgrade, from the Belgrade region, and at least from the Shumadija region, 15.4% in the total number of complaints, and for the first time since the institution was established is a health situation, which is expected somewhere, taking into account the current health crisis, it was first mentioned in complaints from citizens as the most common basis of discrimination, and in the second place an age. The most complaints were filed in the field of labour and employment, and there were problems of deployment to appropriate jobs, problems of work from home, isolation due to potential contagion, insufficient number and burden of employees, and certain groups of residents were at an additional risk of difficult access to healthcare, such as persons with disabilities, persons living with HIV, children of chronic patients, cancer patients, patients treated with dialysis, suffering from rare diseases and others. Security of access to regular health services and therapies, reviews and psychological support during the crisis, including accessible healthcare facilities, as well as clear and effective procedures for providing health care services in crises are just some of the challenges arising from the current crisis. When it comes to children, it is most often pointed out that the lack of personal escort service is an important support service in the field of education, but also problems in monitoring online teaching, and young people have identified the problem of employment and protection of labour rights, financial security, quality of education and the negative impact of the pandemic on education. I have singled out only two areas with the most common grounds of discrimination that citizens are instructed to agree to stick to for about ten minutes, so I will now only take advantage of the opportunity to respond to the MP, Mr Samir Tandir, to the possible opening of regional offices. We have an open regional office in Novi Pazar because we thought it was an environment that deserves us to be as close to the citizens as possible, taking into account the multinational and multicultural composition of the population, but we use every opportunity to be out of Belgrade as possible to citizens at different events. Of course, we didn't get a chance to do it in the last year, but we continued it this year and we'll continue in the next year. As for certainly one of the biggest challenges when it comes to inadmissible speech on social networks, above all inappropriate speech, an aggressive tone of insults of which some are discrimination, and threats to violence. On December 9th of this year, we presented a special report on discrimination against children in which a very significant part of the report has just been devoted to discrimination and violence on social networks. I believe that there will be opportunities to consider either in the plenary or soon on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, chaired by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but why not in another format, because in the report we presented a detailed and general comment of the 25 UN Committees on the Rights of the Child, where we have just pointed out what the challenges are in front of us when it comes to children and social networks, because at the beginning of the comment, a little girl says that whenever she is sad or has a problem, she goes online because there is always some content that gives her comfort. I also started this last week at the invitation of the Government Council for the Rights of the Child to present a report there, and we have just pointed out this kind of problem, and we have proposed to the Council for the Rights of the Child that one special session of this Government's body is held on this topic and the President of the Child Rights Council, Minister Dmitrovic has accepted and at the next session we will talk about what we could all do together as a state and society, with some of the measures already being carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, support for parents regarding the safety of children on the internet is organised on a special phone established by the Ministry of Telecommunications, but we regularly hold meetings with journalists, REM representatives, as well as all others who participate and can influence problem solving and understanding phenomena. We hold different meetings and activities just to influence the prevention of this extremely dangerous social phenomenon, and in 2018 we have already made a recommendation to the Internet portals to take all necessary measures to prevent the publication of content and comments of users on the internet portal and profiles on social networks, as well as to remove those comments that have already been published, making such content and comments available to the public, which can, by their content, promote hatred or violence against the face or group of persons because of their personal characteristics or cause fear or hostile, humiliating and offensive environment. A number of portals are indeed and are already applying this recommendation, but there is no dilemma that there is much room to improve the situation for both prevention and inadmissible speech of threats and violence on Internet portals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11971	Thank you. The word has a trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data, Milan Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11972	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, the honourable MPs, the Honorable chairman, the distinguished representatives of independent state bodies, at the very beginning, I would like to express great respect and gratitude to you, citizens, because in this high house you are considering the annual reports of independent state bodies this time for 2020. This act of yours has been a continuation of good practice in the last three years, and we owe you a special thanks for inviting us to attend this session this time and allowing us to, as we address you and briefly, present our reports to you and to give you, but also to all citizens in Serbia, the necessary clarifications or answers to all the questions you are interested in. I welcome your position and invite you to continue with good practice in the future and continue to consider our reports and invite us to the sessions that you are holding for the occasion. As regards the very report on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection for 2020, i.e. the human rights situation in the fields of the Commissioner, which is the right to free access to information of public importance and the right to the protection of personal data for 2020, I can stress that the result of the report for 2020 is largely due to the fact that Kovid's pandemic - 19, as well as the measures that have been taken by the competent authorities, and before all the Governments of the Republic of Serbia, in order to combat this disease, and especially during the declared state of emergency. The measures most affected the protection and enforcement of those human rights protected by the Trustee were: the adoption of a regulation on the calculation of deadlines in general and special administrative procedures, on the basis of which the deadlines for the administration's authority's conduct ceased to run until the end of the emergency situation, then the adoption of a Decision on distance work, i.e. on work from home, the introduction of a special regime for the functioning of health institutions and the introduction of teaching at a distance and temporary suspension of school work, the ban on public gathering and other measures. These measures affected the work of the Commissioner by an absurd situation. Namely, every year, at the beginning of the year, the Trustee makes a plan for inspections to be carried out in the area of monitoring respect for the protection of personal data among all data handlers in Serbia and data processors in Serbia. Ironically, for 2020 we were planning to oversee the work of health institutions and the work of educational institutions. The health institutions of course couldn't, because they were almost all in the system and the schools weren't working, so we had to reassemble practically into walking and change our planned plan, actually planned the extent of control. However, despite all these measures, I must point out that none of the two human rights protected by the Trustee has been abolished, nor suspended under the given circumstances, but only limited to the extent necessary, which has not been particularly characteristic for all countries in the world, and also in Europe. This abnormal situation of some called "new normality" has also imposed on the trustee and his service the need to adapt to new circumstances and organise our work in the most optimal way possible, making sure that as the primary goal of protecting the health of the population and thus employees in the Service of the Trustees. Through a number of recommendations and statements, the Commissioner pointed to two equally important facts. One, that maximum protection of data on health, which are particularly sensitive data from citizens, but also other data on the personality of citizens, and two, that free access to information of public importance has special importance and weight in the given situation. As for the statistical numbers themselves in the report, it is noticeable that the number of cases received and solved is lower by about a third than in 2018 and 2019, which is, of course, due to the Kovid - 19 disease situation. But again, the number of solved cases exceeded the number of received, which shows that at a higher rate cases from previous years have been solved. So in the area of free access to information of public importance, we received 5,201 items and solved 5.470. In the area of protection of personal data 2,952 items were received and 2,974 solved. 1,065 cases were received in both areas and 1,053, which was somewhat less resolved than was received. But all in all, a total of 9,218 items were received and solved 9,497. By the way, the Trustee's report was posted on the Trustee's website on the link "The Commissioner.rs" and everyone interested can look at it since March last year. As for statistics on areas of rights protected by the Commissioner, a total of 3.286 complaints were received in the area of free access to information of public importance. The trustee resolved 3,584 complaints, and a large number of them, the half-dominated majority, 53.23% were filed for the silence of the administration or silence of the administration, i.e. the absence of any response to the request for free access to information of public importance. The complaints were largely established, even 83.59% of the total number of complaints resolved. Of the 1,086 solutions the trustee has made to the applicants' complaints, authorities have acted in 74.13%, so in three-quarters of the cases. The characteristic of 2020 is that the number of complaints from journalists has increased, precisely because of the Kovid situation - 19. In the usual situation, the number of journalists' complaints ranged around 9%, but in 2020 there were 27.6%. The largest number of complaints were filed against the republican state and other bodies and organisations, and within them against the ministries and authorities in their composition, and then a number of complaints were recorded both in the areas of justice and public enterprises, while the number of complaints were reduced by local self-government authorities, by the republican authorities, by organisations and by the regional authorities. The degree of confirmed decisions of the Trustee since the trustee exists is over 92% of the decisions of the competent courts, i.e. the Administrative Court. In the area of protection of personal data, the Trustee received 2,952 items and ended the conduct of 2,974. Most of this was the control or inspection procedures carried out by the Trustee in this area and 205 control procedures were carried out, 200 of which are under the new Personal Data Protection Act, which has been applied since 22 August 2019. The most common reason for launching the surveillance process is the security of personal data in more than 30% of cases. During 2020, 139 complaints in the field of protection of personal data were made to the trustee, and the most common reasons for the complaint were the non-treatment of data handlers at the request of the applicant, i.e. persons whose data are processed in 71 cases, i.e. the refusal or rejection of claims by the handlers in 35 cases and the partial handling of 32 cases. Infringement of the rights for which complaints were most frequently lodged is the right to access data, the right to delete personality data, the right to correction and the addition of their data. Also, the Commissioner paid great attention to training, especially in the field of protection of personal data and as the brightest example, I can highlight the trustee's agreement with the Faculty of Security of the University of Belgrade, in which co-operation took place the first short study programme to obtain the contact of the personal data protection manager and the programme continued in this year for the general good. What are the problems in achieving these two rights that the Commissioner protects? One is the normative framework. We then proposed to amend the Law on free access to information of public importance. I am pleased to conclude that you, the National Assembly, have adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance, that they have entered into force and started to apply since 16 February 2022. You'll see it's for the greater good of all citizens. We managed to do something that was of interest to some MPs when I talked about it, which is to prevent a good view of abuse of the right to access information of public importance. Then, we were given the right to order a misdemeanor order, to issue a criminal order and to file a motion to initiate a misdemeanor case, as well as to prescribe and impose administrative sanctions for the non-execution of the trustee's solution. Now something to answer Mr Samir Tandir's question about decentralisation. Amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance have just given the Trustee the opportunity to educate offices outside of his Belgrade headquarters. As soon as the law begins to apply since February, I will, be confident, educate the offices at the beginning of the district headquarters, i.e. the region, in Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, and we will see for ourselves. In any case, it will mean a lot to the citizens, especially the citizens who live there. The assessment of the situation in the areas of exercise of rights in the jurisdiction of the Commissioner for 2020 cannot be said that it was satisfactory in the area of access to information, but thanks to the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance, you will see that this situation will gradually improve. I thank you once again for passing this law, because you have taken a huge step that has been waiting for years, not to say a decade. As far as personal data protection is concerned, there are a number of problems. They've been caused by, too, the normative defects. We have a law on the protection of personal data that is new, but which is difficult to apply. I am grateful to the government of the Republic of Serbia, who responded to my initiative, and the work of the Working Group is under way to adopt a personal data protection strategy, whose business is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice and the Trustee, to create an effective and enforceable personal data protection strategy for the period 2022 to 2030. I'm sure it'll be done by the end of the first half of next year. It is also necessary to amend the Personal Data Protection Act, but also to pass some of the laws that we lack, such as the Biometric Data Processing Act, the Data Processing Act through video surveillance and the like. Finally, I owe my gratitude to the Committee for adopting a proposal for a conclusion on the adoption of the Report of the Commissioners for 2020. I must conclude that last year, when you reached your conclusion on the review of the Report of the Commissioners, you, quote, said this: "The National Assembly supports the Government to step up activities on appropriate normative changes, especially amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Public Information and to improve the strategic framework in the area of protection of personal data". That's what I just said. Practically, the government listened to you, she did it, and you can see how great we function when we commit ourselves to some burning problem. Please just keep going. I express my hope that with a very good practice of considering the report of independent bodies, so does the Trustee, and the formation of such effective conclusions will continue in the future. I just want to answer two more questions, they are not addressed to me, but as my colleague Pasalic said, it is also about the authority of the Commissioner, who has been told by the MP Tandir. There's one thing about violence on the Internet. Of course, it's not the trustee's jurisdiction, but it is the trustee's jurisdiction to worry about how the personal data of all citizens, and especially minors and children, are getting on the Internet, how they're being abused. It's usually the first step that leads to violence. To this end, we will do everything possible to train the young population to protect their rights, the right to protect their personal data, and in the event of their violations, how to contact the Commissioner. Finally, I would like to answer to Ambassador Tandira for a specific question he has asked. He's not here? Okay, then if he shows up later. In the end, because I don't know if I'm going to get a chance to talk after, to wish all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a happy and successful New 2022, good health and, hopefully, a return to normal life, in fact, an old, ordinary normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11973	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, Dr Muamer Bačevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11974	Dear representatives of independent bodies, thank you for your exhaustive reasons, but I would ask you to listen to other MPs as well. However, it is the parliament where you draw your legitimacy, to say the least. We do have time, but we are generally cut short today, but I think we will be able to talk about the most important things, since as four institutions, you've really done a lot of work to raise the level of democracy in this country and, above all, the rights of citizens to know what they can do, to know what their rights are and to achieve those rights and freedoms. Mankind is living today in a specific situation at the time of the pandemic, you all said, a pandemic to which humanity is not only affected, but is partly caused by a carefree relationship to the environment that has been given to us and to the main resource that we have and which is given to us by God. And in this state of pandemic or crisis, this is a crisis, a major global crisis that affects the economy, you've all pointed out, they're most affected, let's say, the most sensitive groups. That's what the Trustee of Equality says a lot. Its report states, and in most of your reports, that the right to health, to a health response, to obtain health care, as guaranteed by the state, is a subject that is dominant in your reports. I am very pleased that the Trustee of Equality is seeking, stressing that there must always be a balance in health response, in the protection of health and preservation of human and minority rights. All your institutions have worked very hard on it and they are the tas that makes that balance. I must commend you on that field. However, I must especially point out the trustee of equality that is extremely active in the public, not only in this field, but in condemning all the negativity that arises in our society. Very boldly, with a lot of integrity, it represents that institution in the way it defines this law. It's a sign of the pluralism of this country. This is a sign that in this country these institutions play a 100% role. Criticizing extreme right-wing attitudes, for example Leviathan, taking up national minorities, or reacting in all situations, a little less, and there's a problem, you'll hear some colleagues, political parties protecting, but if. To protect us citizens and their human and minority rights, and of course to pay attention to all other levels. In any case, much has been done by this parliament this year and when we talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency. You know we've passed an extremely good law. Of course, it can be further improved, but we've taken a big step to determine the origin of the property. It's a law that needs to show who and how and what he's politically motivated to do and who worked, who was his motive in his policy of action, who acquired enormous property, how. I couldn't get it. I live off my salary. How could I have, I don't know, a 100,000-euro jeep, etc.? It is something to insist on and what this government insists on, and it has clearly shown in this assembly. There are no protecteds, and politicians should be first on the scales, most of all those who talk about morals the most. The ones who most have to go behind them are hiding the burglaries. I am pleased that this government is showing continued this fight against corruption course. This is a big step. I won't owe much. I'm just going to draw one more thing. I, the most, so it turns out now, that the Trustee of Equality highlighted something that marked my end. You say in one place that volunteerism, aiding, altruism must be the center of action and be even more significant, more subdued. I've been looking for a new volunteer law here, so on it. The new Pazar is a paradigm at the time of the epidemic of how many volunteers worked, day and night, in three shifts, and helped us doctors and how much they meant to us, of course, many human people. Humanity shined in that area in this difficult time of the epidemic. Our diaspora has shown something rarely seen and helped, not only Sandzak, but also the King, Kragujevac and Užice. That brotherly love, that support, that care for each other, that's something we need most. So here, your institutions have central importance for people, our citizens, to feel equal. That's important, not only for minorities, it's important for all citizens that they are equal in both doctors and in court. That's something, I must say, and here's the president, in my neighborhood, in one multiethnic neighborhood, that in every way, he's going to try and focus all his strength to keep all citizens even by his benefits and by his obligations. To avoid further debt, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, as a convinced Social Democrats, I announce that probably, of course, my parliamentary group will, and I believe my coalition, give you and your institutions absolute support in your further work. We will support your integrity, do what this Assembly and the law obliges you to do, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, for the more advanced ends of this country, for the more advanced Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11975	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11976	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests, I think today's session shows the breadth of the National Assembly, where through reports of the Trustee for Equality, the Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information, we can see how far we have progressed as a society in segments of equality and protection of the rights of all our citizens. First of all, I would like to refer to the Report of the Trustee on Equality and in front of the JS Parliamentary Group, because it is made up of several segments through which you have detailed all the challenges and all the problems our citizens face when we talk about equality and many of the projects you have participated in and carried out by your Office. First, I'd like to start with your open communication with local self-government. This is very important because exactly the problems of equality arise in the environments in which we live, and that is where we need to eliminate them. You have sent a series of recommendations for achieving equality to many cities and municipalities. Following the activities of many local self-governments, it is evident that they have seriously approached your proposals. I hope that concrete results of these recommendations will be seen in the next period. Since I am an emissary coming from the region of Raska, more specifically from the city of Kralje, you sent two recommendations to the city of Kralje in 2020. I want to mention them because that's exactly where you can see that cooperation between your office and your local self-government. One concerned the involvement of personal escorts for children who needed the service, as we were approached by parents of children who could not do the service. Otherwise, the city of Kraljevo provides personal escort service for 28 children, and the real need is much greater, approximately always nine, ten children are on hold. But this problem arises because the Ministry of Education abolished the teaching assistant and if, for example, that service returned there would be no waiting list and there would be no discrimination among those children. By the way, in 2018, when the Center for Local Services was established, the city of Kraljevo provided 11 million dinars for the operation of the Centre, and today the budget is 31 million dinars. He has a desire to provide his children equally with the services of personal escorts, but it also requires the help of a resolute ministry and of course you as Commissioners for Equality, which would point to this problem, not only for the King, but I think in many other cities across Serbia. Another recommendation referred to offensive graphites directed against the Roma community and were located near a primary school, i.e. “Jovo Kursula” OS. The complainants considered that the disputed graphite called for racial discrimination and had a negative impact on all layers of society. The city responded immediately to your recommendation and removed the graphs through communal inspection. These are just two good examples of co-operation with local self-government. I believe that, through your long-standing work as Commissioner for Gender Equality and in other local self-governments, you have come across such quick and effective answers, because just as I said, equality, that is, the phenomenon of discrimination occurs in the environments in which we live and that is where we need to eliminate them primarily. It certainly shouldn't stop there. There's still a lot of work ahead of us, especially when we're talking about local levels and applying strategic policies from the republic to the locals. We also passed a long-awaited Law on Gender Equality in May this year. It may still be early to assess how much he has really improved the position of citizens in real life, especially women. I can say that I am not an advocate of women getting a job just because she is a woman, but because by her work, by her knowledge, by giving up, she deserves it, and it must not be taken away or denied just because she is a woman, because the position of women is the basis for a modern society, or one country. I think Serbia is exactly the kind of country. In addition, it says that Serbia is the only non-EU country that has an Equality Index and that makes Serbia 22nd in the common list of European countries. It is also encouraging that the Global Report on Gender Equality pointed to the narrowing of the birth gap and the reduction of gender inequality. That data differs from country to country. For example, Iceland is a country that has managed to remove even 86% of the difference between women and men. For me, it is surprising that countries like Nicaragua and Rwanda fall into countries that have best applied gender equality and have better performances for many developed and more modern countries. By reading your report, I also see that, as with other institutions, the biggest challenge was and is still going on during the pandemic period, and therefore your 11th Regular Report for the Protection of Equality seems different. As I initially commended, you have presented in one understandable way all the problems we face, but you have done a lot of analysis and research at EU and international organisations level. In numbers, the report appears to have addressed more than 3,000 citizens to the Office in 2020. This was done in 1,188 cases, of which up to 684 are under appeal under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and on the basis of the state of health and the age. When I mentioned discrimination against the elderly, i.e. according to age, the UN Global Report noted that one of the three people in Europe was a victim of ajjjism, or discrimination of the old, so Serbia, as well as one of the countries with the world's oldest average population, is not an exception when it comes to this negative trend. Even more than half of the older people in Serbia feel discriminated against, especially when they contact state institutions, seek information or services in all aspects of life. Discrimination based on years is not only present, but belongs to five of the most common reasons for the complaint to arrive at the Office of the Trustee for Equality. Discrimination of the elderly is manifested in almost all areas, especially those with disabilities, who face challenges in the use of public areas. I think the pandemic of the coronary virus has left terrible consequences for the lives of many old people, not only of us, but also of the world, who threw them into even more isolation, especially when we talk about older people living in homes for the old. The question is, how do you reduce these numbers? I think we need as a society to treat this kind of discrimination more seriously. You, Mrs. Jankovic, said that ejdzim in this century could become what racism was in the last century. By thinking of our oldest citizens, we think of ourselves, because years pass by so quickly, and we will come in those years when we will feel, and I would not like it, which means discrimination based on age. Like I said, the pandemic has affected all spheres of life. I was particularly affected by the UN Agency's report on women who say the pandemic of the coronary virus could erase a quarter of the century achieved in progress in gender equality. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, as many as 77% of women have declared that their job size has been increased, and more than half of them have experienced harassment or uninvolved behavior at work in the past year and a half. A survey of the views of 5,000 women from 10 countries has shown that gender equality receded during the pandemic, undermining the year of slow but stable progress. As for Serbia and during 2020, women are in a more unfavourable position than men in all areas of social life, and the latest data suggests that women are both more numerous and more educated than men, and they are still harder to hire, less relaxed, less paid than men. You have, through your report, cited all the examples and problems women in Serbia face, and I would like to commend you for contributing greatly to the work of the parliamentary network to ensure that gender equality is a topic in which all institutions will be involved. You have always supported and responded to the call of the Women's Parliamentary Network, you have participated in all our actions and activities. We were able to raise awareness together that a woman is an equal part of our society. What we have to work on together as a woman and I as a woman is female solidarity and the sooner we realize that a woman is not a wolf, but I think that we will reach out to our friends, our brothers, our employers much faster and more clearly, that we are equal to them. Unfortunately, many of us have been confronted through our work with misunderstandings precisely in women and sometimes at times when we need to encourage women somehow slips the message that women should not be afraid of men in politics or in other jobs, but rather women. It's a good thing it's a small and inconspicuous percentage because only together can we make equality part of everyday life. The part in your report that drew my attention concerns discrimination based on nationality and unfortunately increased complaints on this basis. The problems they face are inadequate conditions for life, education, employment and the state working to improve these conditions and make their participation in everyday life as visible and as much as possible, but as a parent, I have to say that I am disappointed to know that in some primary education schools, which are required by law for all children of Serbia, regardless of what nationality or religiousity, happened that parents want to write their children just because they attend children of the Roma national minority and instead of being parents, to encourage those children to be educated and to become their own people, individual parents to send such an inhumane and above all an inhuman message. No matter how much the project has been done and this is about children of Roma nationality attending school regularly, it is important that society itself accepts them and sends them a clear message that they are equal in everything, especially when we talk about children. I also want to commend the introduction of concepts – segregation, and it refers to the ban on the separation of people based on racial, religious and national belongings. I hope the law affects what he couldn't do with common sense. One of the perhaps main problems relating to the achievement of the equality of certain social groups, here I think of persons with disabilities and persons who are having difficulty moving is their inequality which is reflected in the inaccessibility of public facilities and in your report, Mrs Jankovic, you pointed to this kind of inequality, and I have to as someone who comes from sports and who spent his whole life in sports to say and point to this discrimination. I think she might even be the most pronounced here. We know how much sport affects not only physical strength, but also psychological and just sports. I always look forward to the participation of our athletes in the Paralympic Games because we know how much effort and work is needed to participate not only in the competition itself, and that is why their results are even more valuable and more important and the Ministry of Sports is working on the equality of all athletes and the same are rewarded medals of athletes won at the Olympic Games as well as at the Paralympic and I really liked the promo post in which our celebrated stoner, paralympic Borislava Pekic promotes equality, because as I said, sport may be the area in which it is perhaps the most visible precisely this inequality. It is also necessary to work on equality when it comes to school sports, to enable, or to work on, having equal access to sports from the first school days to children no matter what environment they live in, whether it is urban or rural. He thinks it also affects the building of their personality and that it helps through life tomorrow and all that life carries is easier because they have built a healthy competitive spirit. As a society, we have to work to make people with disabilities feel equal and equal members of the community, and I think we are mature enough, but when I read the report, I have a fear that we still have a lot of work to do to raise awareness of the population and improve the situation of people with disabilities. Their will to be equal members of the community should be an incentive for us to work on a society with equal chances for everyone. I hope that your next report, and seeing how Serbia is working to improve the situation and reduce discrimination, that report will be much more relevant, as regards progress in equality and above all the rule of law. Serbia is trying to do that. A unique Serbia as a political party always supports every effort to ensure that our citizens feel equal and that they are guaranteed all rights. As for the Citizens' Protector's report, your report marked a pandemic that unfortunately changed the lives of all of us, but the fact that as many as 67% of citizens have spoken more to your office since 2019 says that citizens have become aware of their rights and that in cases where those rights are violated they can also address the Citizens' Protector. I would also like to commend that the Office of the Protector of the Citizens has strengthened its surveillance on the ground, especially the accent has been placed on the control of particularly sensitive groups of children, persons with disabilities, Roma and migrants. You continued to cooperate with colleagues from the region and Europe, and I have an example for you that comes from the city of the Kings. In 2020, you once addressed the city of Kralje, acting on the complaint of the users of the SYRP programme. The housing programme and the permanent integration of refugees in Serbia, as the users of this programme are not allowed to resolve their housing issue permanently by not providing for the option of buying apartments. Such procedures by refugees from the SIRP programme have led to an unfavourable position in relation to other refugees whose programmes to provide housing or purchases of rural households and the city has formed a Task Force and shown its willingness to apply some new quality solutions and to permanently resolve the issue of users of this programme, and this is for every commendation and response to you as the Protector of Citizens, and of course local self-government, which, as soon as recommended, formed the Working Group and is working to resolve this programme. Otherwise, the programme is still in seven Serbian cities and was a programme sponsored by the Italian Embassy. I'd also take advantage of the presence, although I didn't plan to, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. At one of the previous sessions with Ministerial Justice I spoke on the subject, there is nothing you can do about it, but it is simply a good topic to think about, that the Sport Act forbids public officials to be in alliances, or boards of unions, clubs, etc. and I agree with that, but I think there may be an exception somewhere, because unfortunately all sports are not even treated equally in Serbia, but simply some sports are planetarily popular and there are a lot of money, and some sports may be suppressed somewhere on the side, so I wanted to tell you that in sports where there is no financial compensation, where they are exclusively out of the goodwill of former athletes, and now some successful people who are engaged in public functions are forbidden to participate in the work of such alliances because they are public officials, regardless of which the dinars are not getting compensation for it and whatever those sports have no money, but out of pure love, and good messages to other athletes to play sports and good messages to children and youth to deal with sports, they are disabled to make their contribution. It certainly can't prevent that non-participation in the work of the alliance of any of us from sending us a message that children should be engaged in sports and that sport is an integral part of life, but perhaps, I say, to find some formula and the minister of justice agreed that it is a good topic and that an exception should be made for sports where it is done without any compensation, without any financial compensation, but out of pure goodwill and a desire to promote sport. In short, I just wanted to take advantage of your presence and tell you that. During the previous period, it is very important for JS that regardless of the situation, it worked to achieve children's rights. Mr Pasalic's report shows that the number of cases discussed is twice as high as in 2019, while the number of recommendations addressed in the area of child rights increased by 50% compared to 2019, and I, in my speeches, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Pasalic, indicated that our social protection institutions lack workers, you also noticed that, of course, the ministry recognized this need, and that more workers in the social protection system are employed. All three reports are content and aim to inform us and contribute together and work together to make Serbia a country of equal opportunities for all. Unique Serbia welcomes the adoption of regular reports and the Citizens' Protectors and the Trustee for Equality and the Commissioner for Public Information, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency, as we can, through discussion and open discussion, remove or reduce any irregularities. From my speech, you could conclude that the JS MP group, in voting day, will support reports from all bodies on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11977	Thank you. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11978	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Orlic. Honored representatives of the promoters, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies or institutions, allow me to, before I refer to the very reports that are on the agenda today, since this is probably the last time we have a chance to address this year, since during the second part of the session we will have a discussion on the details, in which we will probably, as a parliamentary group, not participate, because we will certainly support the proposed laws. Let me just say something in a few sentences about the year behind us, when it comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the regular meeting of the National Assembly ends today. With pride on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to say that there is a very successful year behind us when it comes to the work of Parliament. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has shown in the past year that the symbol of both democracy and efficiency and transparency and the public are in the work and that in the right sense, the voice of the people, is the place where opinions and different attitudes are faced in a democratic way, and with one clear goal, to come up with legislative proposals that will be in the best interest of citizens. I think that in the previous year, parliament has worked in the best interests of citizens and has given the right answers, provided answers to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest body of the legislative authority. So, in this year, we have brought a series of sets of laws of national importance, but what I would specifically single out, and I would say, in some ways, marked this parliamentary year, certainly is, above all, inter-party dialogue, an inter-party dialogue within which, at the initiative of the President of the National Assembly of Serbia, in agreement with the President of the State, inter-party dialogue led on both sides, showing a high degree of democracy, an opportunity for us to hear suggestions and suggestions from all political parties. Then, before us is the Law on Referendum, the People's Initiative, constitutional changes, the adoption of an ethical code, the adoption of a law on the use of Serbian language in public life, the protection of the preservation of Cyrillic letter and the introduction of an anthem release at the beginning of the school year. In addition to all measures to improve the standard of living of citizens, it is very important, it is the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, strengthening national identity, especially in these turbulent times, when Serbia and the Serbian people face different pressures. So, in some ways, I think that we have managed to implement this year, as the highest body of the legislative authority, everything contained in the European Commission report, and it concerns the concrete work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We adopted 174 acts on a regular basis and a very small number of acts, as necessary by an emergency procedure, which had complete justification. As for today's session, this is the second time we have the opportunity to discuss the work of independent bodies in this Parliament. In addition, recently here in the tide we adopted, as has already been said, the Law on the Ombudsman, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. Also, the Assembly has selected five new members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Council, as well as the Commissioner for Equality, all with one clear goal, which is the obligation of all of us MPs, to strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies or independent institutions. Democracy is strengthened by strengthening independent institutions. In the exercise of the control function, therefore, the National Assembly is overseeing the work of independent bodies, and I would like to stress that the National Assembly is making good co-operation with all independent institutions. The institution of the Protector of the Citizens has, of course, an important place and a role in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear what it is according to the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Citizen's Protector is an independent state body that protects citizens' rights, controls the work of the government's authority, the competent body for the legal protection of property rights, the interest of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations. This authority shall also have the right to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the laws and other regulations and general acts. Consideration of the report on the work of this independent body contributes to the improvement of the work of the national authorities in all segments. Some of the relevant data from the citizens' report in 2020 are what you were mostly talking about in the opening presentation. However, it looks forward to the report that a general assessment of the human rights situation in the Republic of Serbia in 2020 has been significantly improved. I can safely say that the arrival of Mr Pasalic at the head of this institution has taken a huge step forward in the work of this institution. I had the pleasure of cooperating primarily on the international agenda in the previous session. I think that's how the path is routed that should continue in the next period of time. Let's remind the Commissioner's jurisdiction takes place on two levels. One refers to the protection of the right to free access to information of public importance, in accordance with the Law on free access to information of public importance, while the other concerns the protection of personal data and supervision of the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act. What follows the work of this independent body so far is unfortunately a negative sign and a context that is due to the way this body works in the previous period, which is corrected. So the new trustee entered this place that wasn't pleasant. It requires a lot of transparent work and the results of this work to improve the image of this independent body. The full visibility of the role and work of the Trustees in 2020 was achieved precisely through the media. It was realized through Internet presentations, portals, open data, social networks and the like. For example, in 2020, the Trustee received 9218 items, of which even 5201 referred to free access to information, 2952 to protection of personality data, and 1065 to both areas of the work of the Trustee. So, in the year, the trustee ended proceedings in 9497 cases, which is commendable. When I talk about a report by the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2020, this institution is operating under the new Corruption Prevention Act, which has been applied since 1 September 2020. This law strengthens the anti-corruption role of the Agency, i.e. a strengthened mechanism for the control of conflicts of interest of public officials, giving consent to perform other public functions, of course if functions do not constitute a conflict of interest. I think it is also clear when it comes to the Agency's work and when it comes to co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have one zero degree of tolerance when it comes to fighting corruption and we hope that it will continue in the next period of time. To avoid too much debt since we have a short period of time and to allow other colleagues and colleagues to speak, I will finally say that the SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support all the proposed reports in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11979	The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vučić - For our children, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11980	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of independent bodies, today we are talking about a whole series of very interesting and very important topics for our country, starting with the fight against corruption, respect and empowerment of human rights, minority rights, the entire human rights corps covered by the Trustee for Equality and the Civilian Protector himself, as well as the Commissioner for the Protection of Data on the People's Personality, which all represents and belongs to a single corpus of basic human rights and civilizational fluids of society in which we live today. All of what I was just talking about, this entire human rights corps is very important for our party, it is very important for our country, not only because we have an obligation when it comes to our European integration, when it comes to achieving our country's strategic goal, which is a full membership of Serbia in the European Union, but in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of raising all aspects when it comes to their rights, improving our country's democratic capacities, which I believe we have done a lot in the past few years, especially when it comes to what it is in fact and the first term of our President Alexander Vukic, as Prime Minister in 2014, which is to define a clear strategy to fight corruption and organised crime. It has been defined for the first time in the history of our country's zero tolerance for corruption and one unfavourable struggle against that monster that we consider to be definitely the cancer of our society, and we believe that in the course of these seven years we have done much, and of course together with the Corruption Prevention Agency, much to be done, since this is seen, that the results are visible to our citizens, and that means that all of what we have criticised about the work of the former regime that ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2012, and it concerns the huge amounts of money that have been poured out through corruption and corruption activities of our officials and people who have managed public policies in our country, we have just done what is opposite, we have just cut down everything that was possible when it comes to reduce corruption from the smallest agency, the least public utility to major state companies, institutions, institutions and all the state authorities in the state administration. The results are visible through not only economic reforms and economic growth, where we are champions in Europe, since cumulative growth in the past two years is 7.5%, which we all need and we must be proud of, but building highways, investing in health care, investing in the education system, in science, in information technologies, investing in one socially responsible state, social protection, and, of course, investing in the protection of human, minority rights, something that came from this aspect of our country's functioning and a completely new narrative of one, a completely new doctrine of our President Vukic who knew, who had a vision and who, as a first priority, defined the fight against corruption as something that would in any case define further development and make preconditions for the further development of our country. Of course, I'm not downplaying the importance of respect for human, minority rights, which I'm going to talk about a little bit later, but I want you, as someone who is of course serious and active in politics, to point out something that is happening in our country. It is particularly concerned that it is one continuity of a brutal campaign led primarily against the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, against his family, but of course a campaign that is led against primarily those prominent members of the SNS just because they belong to the SNS, only because they make public their views on which, of course, we all have the right, right and free speech is something, I hope, for which all of us on the political scene, and also the people who work in independent institutions and lead them, we advocate and what we need to represent "Condio son qua non" the functioning of any democratic state. Now, you have a situation in the 21st century in a country that is democratic, where pluralism, parliamentary democracy, is a situation that none, but none of the independent bodies, of the NGOs, of all those drilling into their chests to take care of human rights, of human freedoms, of minority rights, in preventing the threat of political rights, no one has reported on one shameful campaign. It is very important to me to say, it is very important to me because of my colleagues sitting here, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, against our colleague primarily from the SNS, deputy head of the parliamentary club, mother of two children, one top intellectual, fighter for their country, for the interests of their country, and it has shown many times in the previous period, but of course its results will also be judged by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of Panchev, citizens of New Belgrade, citizens of all municipalities here in Belgrade. But how do you interpret that people who participate in political life in Serbia, people who run individual political parties, whatever the size, we're not getting into it now, is it possible that no one has answered about one of these so-called. The leader of these political parties calls Mrs. Christmas, believe me, it's embarrassing for me to say that in this high and respected home – a gangster, and that another public envoy, a worker, that supporter and so on. The boycott opposition is talking about her in the worst context, the most embarrassing, most brutal words and that no one except us from the SNS is answering to say – people, this is enough, this needs to be interrupted, this should in some way stop processing and finally do something about it. Now look at the other tweet. The same political leader, called Mladjan Djordjevic, who wears the FSB badge of the Russian secret service, which is bought at the market, says - listen to Brnab, and tell that boss of yours, the punks from Chipulić, Vukic, will not be "Rio Tinta", nor the excavation of lithium in our Serbia, because you will not be in power, and the money you will take back from what you stole from the people. There, it is the attitude of political actors, it is the attitude of the opposition to the President of the Republic, according to legitimate representatives, people who received votes of more than 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections held on 21 June 2020. You answer my question - is that normal? Is it normal for you and the people who work with you not to be in all the media and to let your opinion into the air, just your opinion on it? It doesn't matter, let this be the right thing to do, let this be the best, let this be the most cultural, let this be, as you say, the most politically correct, but say something about it, that we know. Some of my colleagues have so much romanticized the role of independent institutions in our society, we respect that and we respect that, but we need to talk openly about the anomalies and everything that has shaken our society today, because we are exposed here to a brutal campaign of an aggressive minority. And it doesn't matter what minorities are, we're talking about respecting human minority rights in our country right now, and I think we've achieved a lot in the previous period, especially in terms of minority rights. Look today at our country's relations with the Hungarian national minority. Look at our co-operation with our colleagues who come and represent parties representing the Hungarian national minority, the Bosniak national minority, any other. Look at President Vukic, who spent three days ago, thinks the first president, the first man in history to visit Sjenica and Tutin and Novi Pazar in such a high state office. He didn't have a hard time talking to the most ordinary people whose life is really, what we need to talk about, which is our job, to improve the quality of their lives. Not to talk about it from this warm National Assembly and our warm cabinets, but to go there like he did and talk about the problems of infrastructure, the problems of electricity supply, the problems of heating, the problems that, of course, have been accumulated for decades. Of course, we understand that everyone now expects that Vukic will solve it in a year, something that the predecessors did not solve, but they had no intention, nor thought of solving the problems of ordinary citizens, as Vukic does. So, what did Vukic experience and what did his family experience? Here, look at "Informer" says – we're looking into what is actually behind the affair "The Commissioner". I have to ask you, Mr. Marinovic, I think I'm a rather educated man, I've been in politics for a long time, but I personally absolutely don't understand what was doing surveillance, inspectors, what is it called? Here, I've been here for 10 years, I've had the opportunity to work with many people from all independent institutions, regulatory bodies, I've been a member of many committees here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't understand what he's doing, what he's doing in a winery on Vozdovac, given that he's been watching and doing co-worker, who, of course, we've all been here for a long time, we're all here in politics, Emina Kovacevic, who was a prominent political activist, was even on the Social Democratic Party list of Boris Tadic, whose mother is also working with you, with the Commissioner for Data Protection and Personal Information, which is obviously not an accident. Their activity is supposed to be to find some big news and a big affair about Danil Vukic, because I guess that boy who is 21 years old shouldn't live, shouldn't work, shouldn't live in this city and in this country, just because he's the son of President Alexander Vukic and that Alexander Vukic bothers all those who would again, and none of you have answered, to wish for a Romanian script, this one now who would shoot the president and warn him about it, Goran Markovic, on the Libyan script. That's what the president of the Democratic Party Executive Board says, imagine the shame, but never mind, let it be from any other party, which says that Vukic and his son Danilo and his family will end up as Gaddafi, and we all know how Gaddafi ended up. No one mentions it, and no one here is saying, at least to open the debate, to come here to Parliament and say, "people, let's make some round table, some public listening, what's happening to us, what are we doing, how are you going to react?" We don't get involved in this, but don't think we're gonna keep our mouths shut, we're gonna keep our mouths shut about being held against Wolf, against his family, against all of us. I don't want Sandra Christmas to be a target to anyone when she gets out on the street, because that's what's written calling that when she goes out on the street, when she goes to coffee with her two daughters, when she takes them to college or anywhere, that's a call that she's marked, that she's only bad because she belongs to the Serbian Progressive Party. We blame them only because Vucic has and this party has plebiscite support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because apparently they only think about how some foreigners or what they say through that, Ukrainian, Macedonian, Libyan, these are very, very innovative, no one here is going to suggest something about infrastructure, new investments, jobs, but think about scenarios and how they will deal with someone. Today it's Sandra Christmas, tomorrow it's Martinovic, the day after tomorrow Jovanovic, Aleksandra Tomic. Each and every one of us is waiting here in Parliament. We are not afraid of that, of course, we are not here in politics or represent our policy because we are afraid. That's why we have to be brave. If you want to implement reforms, if you want to strengthen the army, if you want to be patriots, if you want to protect vital and national interest, if you want to say at all forums and in the international community that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and that we will fight for our people, for our cultural, historical and religious heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, of course we should have courage and we in the Serbian Progressive Party have it. But don't expect anyone to expect us to keep quiet and to create such an atmosphere that they talked about four or five years ago, but that we're slowly coming from Sunday to Sunday, day to day, when they say they'll be chasing us in the streets, chasing us through the halls and cities all over Serbia, just because we're conducting an independent, independent, patriotic policy and following the policies of our President Alexander Vukic. In all this time, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are dealing with concrete things, we are taking care of pensioners, senior citizens, we are trying, and there Alexander Vukic has managed to raise pensions maximum, to raise salaries in the state sector, to create a good and quality business environment in our country. It's a fight for human rights. It's our fight. That's our key answer, because there's no culture, no social protection, so there's no human rights, if you understand me well, if there's poverty in the country, if we're all equal in poverty, if we rule in the country of egalitarianism. No, we just want to make a competitive environment, an ambience that, of course, means equal chances, an environment that, as we hope today, will adopt majority, without a single vote against, because it requires this idea, from January 1st of the following year, to strengthen and strengthen the assistance to our families, to strengthen our demographic policy, and in fact, in a few years, to reach what Vukić has defined in his vision, and that's how to make us more. It's the only way we can protect our country, we can boost the economy, and we can get to our main goal, which is to keep young people in this country. We don't deal with demagogues, we offer them jobs, we offer them existence, we offer them choices, we offer them opportunities in various areas. It is the policy of the SNS, it is the policy of Alexander Vucic, which we will continue to do, hopefully, all of us together and courageously defend, as long as we have this much support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is currently, as far as we can see, completely, completely unsupervised and of course we are always open to one correct, healthy conversation and of course constructive exchange of arguments when something is bad and when it is ugly and, of course, when it is good. All of this, of course, is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of our country, but we have to point out everything bad that's going on, because we can't let it spill over and create a situation that's, say, entitled to the United States at the end of the Trampo administration, that someone should be embarrassed there in larger cities to say that he's Republican, because he's immediately marked as someone who doesn't belong to the majority of that society, we don't want to get into that trap. Especially since we represent one large, vast majority of Serbian citizens, who only, nothing, very simply, want a job, want stability, want a good and quality future for our children. That is why we will, in this sense, strongly support our president and our party's policy which we have established and defined for the next period in our assembly in October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11981	Thank you. The word is made by Vice-President Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11982	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency and independent regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will base myself on two reports in my presentation, as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group. I am pleased that today we can discuss the conclusions of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality to consider how 11. Regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as 14. A regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for the past year. I am pleased that today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms that in 2019, when we put on the agenda after four years to discuss the annual reports of the Citizens' Protector and Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, that that year was not an incident or that it was not an accident then, it was an act of taking responsibility for this highest representative and legislative body, and with the aim of raising public awareness of both the importance of non-discrimination and the importance of equality, as well as the goal of really strengthening independent and independent human rights institutions, which our parliamentary group certainly finds extremely significant. A review of the regular reports of the Protectors and the Trustees is one of the commitments made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 titled "Belgrade principles on the relationship between national institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights and parliaments". The document specifically states that parliaments should receive, review and respond to the reports of independent institutions, as well as ask for information on relevant bodies on how much they have considered and responded to the recommendations of independent institutions. "Belgrade principles", therefore, establish mutual responsibility. In particular, the obligation of human rights institutions to propose amendments and amendments to laws is stressed to bring domestic legislation in line with international and national human rights standards. I am pleased to say that the report shows that both the Commissioner and the Protector have actively participated in the legislative process. Last year, the Commissioner addressed 12 opinions on the draft acts and 12 initiatives to amend the rules, and Protector of eight opinions on the regulation process and nine legislative initiatives. One of the recommendations of the European Commission report, which, as we know, was published on 19 October this year, is that the National Assembly, apart from considering regular annual reports of independent bodies, should also support the work of independent bodies in a more systematic manner, through regular monitoring of the implementation of their recommendations, in which we still have something to do. So we're still pioneers. What distinguishes the reports of the Commissioner and Protector for 2020 from all previous reports is the fact that the assessment of respect for human rights and protection against discrimination is given for the first time in the context of the state of emergency and the global pandemic caused by Kovidom-19. Under the conditions of emergency, the protection of one human right, the right to life, required a balance between the protection of public health, respect for other human and minority rights and the minimisation of the consequences, as far as possible, which unfortunately caused this health crisis in all social, age, gender groups and all segments of life and work. The key issue to which both these reports correspond is how to achieve respect for democratic principles and principles of good administration, the rule of law and protection and the promotion of human and minority rights from a perspective of protecting the right to life and public health. The answer in both reports is in two key words which, as I mentioned earlier, are equality and non-discrimination. Respect for the principle of non-discrimination is the basis of all policies and only by respecting the right to equality and to prohibit discrimination can we talk about the smooth exercise of human rights. However, in exceptional circumstances, both institutions responded by additional engagement and the results were not missing. Over 3,000 citizens spoke to the trustee, 476 recommendations were made, and a trend of follow-up was continued, with 89% of cases being handled. The commitment to protecting citizens' rights has resulted in an increase in trust in the work of the Citizens' Protectors and a resulting increase in their conversion by more than 67% compared to the previous year. However, this time we haven't talked about this subject, but I think it is important to stress that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians considers it important to work on a legislative framework guaranteeing the social and legal safety of farmers of old age. In that sense, our parliamentary group will be committed to considering proposals from the Citizens' Protector that the definition of farmers' insurance should contain real parameters, therefore, income, calculated earnings, area and type of country, productivity, that it is necessary to specify which persons are considered insurance companies, as well as other issues relevant to this type of insurance, because we know that a large number of citizens in Vojvodina live from agriculture. As I mentioned, the entire past year has unfortunately passed in the pandemic, which we still face. In light of this health pandemic, it is not unexpected that the largest number of complaints about discrimination has just been filed on the basis of the state of health and old age, and for the first time since the institution of the Trustee for the protection of equality of health in complaints has been recorded as the most frequent basis of the introduction in more than 15% of the total number of complaints filed by the Commissioner. As in previous years, this base is rarely listed in combination with some other personal property, and that is, of course, mostly with disability, age, etc. The most complaints on the basis of the health situation have been filed in the field of work and employment. Since the establishment of both institutions, therefore both the Commissioner and the Protector of Citizens, the area of work and employment has been at the top of the number of complaints filed, and the largest number of almost 30% of complaints received to the Protector of a total of 5,056 relate to violations of economic and property rights, and then to the principle of good administration and sociocultural rights. Just the time of the crisis mentioned repeatedly confirmed the credibility of the sentence that, in order to achieve equality, it is simply necessary or fundamentally full application of the anti-discrimination legal framework by all public authorities. The problem we all face in our society is how to overcome the prejudices that vulnerable groups, women, people with disabilities, members of national minorities are treated as immature, infantile and incompetent to life and work. Just the time of the crisis has also confirmed that the anti-discrimination framework, for example, the role of national councils of national minorities in achieving and protecting not only individual but collective rights of members of national minorities to self-government in certain areas, that this is not just a modern phrase and how important these bodies are, in fact, national councils of national minorities. That members of national minorities are further exposed to discrimination in crisis periods also confirms that the trustee received 114 complaints on grounds of discrimination based on nationality and ethnic origin in 2020, which is a double number compared to several previous years, even if we look at four years. In 2016, it was 60, 2017, also, in 2018 it was about 59 and 2019, while the number of 114 is double the size. Institutions and organisations whose citizens mostly complained to the Protector in the area of the rights of national minorities are first of all ministries, in just over 26% of cases, local self-government, in almost 15% of cases, institutions and other public services 15% of cases and the national councils of national minorities themselves, though at a much lower percentage, about 2.5%. For us and for our party, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, as a minority party, the Hungarian national minority party of particular importance is also the fact that during the course of the state of emergency, the Ombudsman himself was in constant contact with representatives of national councils to inform himself about the achievement of individual and collective rights of members of national minorities. During the state of emergency, the Ombudsman did not receive complaints from members of national minorities about the denial of the right to inform in their native language or about the realization of teaching in the languages of national minorities. In particular, regarding the realization of teaching in the languages of national minorities, the Ombudsman has been informed that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is in co-operation with the national councils of the national minorities Radio-Television of Vojvodina and other or local or regional televisions. Last year, on March 30, 2020, a record and broadcast of online teaching began in eight languages of national minorities: Albanian, Bosnian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Hungarian, Romanian, Russian and Slovak. The importance of broadcasting teaching in the languages of national minorities is also the fact that in the AP Vojvodina, of the total number of compulsory primary schools in 254 schools, so in 73% of schools, only one language is taught, while at 91 schools are held in two languages, of which in the Serbian and Hungarian languages 63 primary schools, in two primary schools the classes are performed in three languages: Serbian, Hungarian and Romanian, at the school in Plandište and at the school in Beli Blat in Zrenjanin Municipality are performed in: Serbian, Hungarian and Slovak languages. Also, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government sent a letter to all units of local self-government indicating that adopted measures and published statements related to the pandemic or to combating Kovid 19 must be made available to all citizens and published in the languages of national minorities in the official use of those units of local self-government. The recommendation, which was also mentioned in the previous report, that measures should be taken to enable the composition of state authorities, local self-government authorities and other public authorities to respond to the national composition of the population, to increase the number of employees of national minorities and their education and training for the performance of jobs, is repeated in this year's or last report. As is the same recommendation from year to year, either appears in reports that the European Commission on the Republic of Serbia, as well as numerous reports by the Council of Europe and other international organisations. It is important to point out that this year's report represents a significant step forward in terms of compliance with international methodology, as well as standards for monitoring discrimination. Well, such a statistical demonstration of the activities of the Protector, and in particular the Trustee for the Protection of Equality through detailed systematisation and classification of data in areas, personal properties, regions from which complaints were filed and the outcome of the same complaints, follows the recommendations of a number of international organisations that have pointed out for years the need to classify quantitative data on different grounds of discrimination. To what extent the area of anti-discrimination of equality, equal opportunities, speaks complexly and the fact that at this point we can count at least 26 areas of life that are regulated by 26 sectoral laws, which contain anti-discrimination provisions. The role of the Protector of Citizens is mentioned in nearly 20 strategies and action plans. The additional quality of this year's report, more specifically the report on the year 2020, is a detailed review of numerous reports and analyses of international and domestic institutions and organisations, a different methodological approach, followed by examples of good practice, and in particular European Court of Human Rights practices, which is also extremely important and what we welcome. We can say that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in the Second Decade of Labour has put the reporting scale high. Somewhere before the end of my address, I have to look at another topic that is partly related to all reports, as well as to the daily life and pandemic that has hit us, which is that unfortunately, the measures for the control of the Kovid 19 epidemic have also affected the rise of domestic violence and partnership. Although information on the application of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, during the emergency situation, could suggest that the number of reported cases of measures taken to protect and support victims of domestic violence is irrelevant. However, the Citizens' Protector also stressed that information from other sources pointed to an increase in violence during the state of emergency. By the beginning of December 2021, 18 women were killed in domestic violence, it is not comforting that last 2020 in domestic violence, that 26 women were killed, because in Serbia according to media sources, at least 353 women were killed since 2010, which means every ten days, one woman was killed. In 1995 the campaign – Let's restore the power of women, was part of a global action, 16 days of activists against violence against women. Today, 26 years later, I think it's time for the slogan – let's return the day, not only to women, but to all the invisible and discriminated, those whose rights are marked on November 25th, International Day of Combating Violence against Women, December 1st, World Day against AIDS, December 3rd, International Day of Persons with Disabilities, December 6th, when the anniversary of the Montreal Massacre is marked and December 10th, International Day of Human Rights. It is the responsibility of all of us, the MPs, to do everything to ensure that the right to dignity and days and nights is part of the right to life, and that is the mission of the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11983	Thank you. A word, i.e. two minutes of replica, but not at your presentation of Elvira's MPs, but at the presentation of the predecessors. It's a gentleman's word, Marinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11984	Thank you. I'm really going to try to be brief. I thank the honourable MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, for asking this question, because, as I said in the opening statement, this is an ideal opportunity to give an answer and clarification, not only to the MPs of the people, but to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as far as they are concerned, and not only about the reports we present today. I think this is the ideal point to put a point on the so-called point here. An affair of a trustee that never actually existed. First, I'll just point out some facts. The Commissioner under the Law on the Protection of Personality Data has the right to exercise control over the application of this law and has the right to carry out inspection, there have been different interpretations, to make this clear, in accordance with this law, the application of that law, as well as the application of the Inspection Control Act. By carrying out this surveillance, and not only under the new law of 2019, which has been applicable since 2019, but also under the previous 2009 law, the Trustee can supervise not only in the authorities, not only in the public authorities, but in companies, banks, insurance companies and all those who process personality data, who are data controllers of personality data and data processors. Every year, as I said by presenting the report, we're building an inspection plan for that year. As we did last year for health institutions and educational institutions, so this year, in the sphere of state authorities and authorities, we developed a plan of inspection of all ministries, and this was implemented, all cities and individual municipalities, on the one hand, and in the private sphere, business spheres, companies, banks and so on, we made a plan to monitor all those involved in the online sale of food, drinks, shoes, clothing, furniture, sports equipment and the like. So it came to this and to control that winery, and for that purpose we sent over a thousand control lists to all those involved in these sales, to control the said winery, but not because it is a winery, but because it deals with online sales. She was in that circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11985	You've run out of lines for two minutes. Thank you. Replica, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11986	Thank you for trying to answer what my question is and what I've thought about many times and I haven't understood it, nor do I understand it today. But I'm asking one logical question -- how many wineries did you even visit during that plan of yours? We don't talk about what you're in charge of or you're not in charge. But you know how, everything can be taken under your authority and what you have as your diapazon work and what the law has given you is absolutely not controversial. In addition to, say, 250 or 300,000 economic operators in the Republic of Serbia, besides thousands of business entities, or organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, you are going to the field surveillance of the winery, I also know where the winery is on Voždovac, sending, I don't know if you have them inspectors and what they really are. As far as I know, the people who were in that so-called. The supervisory board shall have the jobs of advisers or senior advisors or junior advisors, not being any inspectors. Mina Kovacevic is not an inspector, she is a senior advisor to the Commissioner, at least that's what your institution's website says. And you just left with five or six inspectors, like it's some company that has thousands of employees, I don't even know how much space, cattle with some stuff that sells directly or on-line and just a winery that has 15 squares in it, it's interesting to the trustee. If it's a model for you and if it's a representative sample, I doubt it myself. I can't say that it's your fault, far from it, but I'm talking about there being a certain political background that's seen as being on the palm of the people who are operating and who are employed there, who are being targeted. And I think this is a bigger blow to Danil Vukic than what's written in the paper -- and he took a picture with this, took a picture with that. I guess the man's entitled to work, he's the son of the president of the state, the man works for pay. And you've just found, your associates have just found that moment to control the business of a winery that has two or three employees, 15 square meters of space, it's someone interesting in Serbia to control it! It's not. To be honest, to be honest with each other, it's interesting Danilo Vukic, it's all about finding something for the Wolf, whether it's with the son, whether it's with the militia, whether it's with the brother. That's how they sewed the French and restaurant chains, butt chains, I don't know what those people have anymore. I'm a member of this party, I've been in politics for a long time, I've never seen a man in my life, not know what he's got. I've never seen a man live and directly. I am almost convinced and no one can convince me that this is not orchestrated and that it is not the continuation of the campaign against Alexander Vukic and that he is the main target of the campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11987	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11988	Thank you. Honored chairman, distinguished representatives of independent bodies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia. On the agenda of today's session there are several reports of independent bodies, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group, the Three "P", in the voting day, will support these reports and vote for it. Today we are seeing each other for the last time in this calendar year, and it is a good thing that we will still be able to consider this year's work reports for 2020, important bodies dealing with issues of protection and promotion by the Constitution of guaranteed human rights. At the same time, while with a certain delay due to the extensive work we did in the autumn regular session, we show that we really care about these institutions, and the results of their work, which should point to certain problems in the functioning of the legal system in society at all. The Anti-Corruption Agency said in its report that in 2020 there was an increase in the number of requests to resolve conflicts of interest between officials and by a third compared to 2019. Is it really the fruit of a gradual increase in the awareness of function holders that they must seek this agreement as stated in the conclusion or was caused by something else, remains to be seen, but this trend should be welcomed and hoped to continue in the next period. Of the requirements that have been handled in the vast majority, about 85% of these consents have been given by the agency. What is not, it is good that last year the agency had to make 189 solutions to determine the violation of the law, in 68 of which were public warning measures or more difficult. Also, this report shows that of the 248 political entities who had an obligation to submit an annual financial report for 2019, this only made them 111, and within this number of 113 political parties, that was 68. If an individual can be considered a possible justified circumstance that due to an epidemic of crowns or oversight, he has not filed a personal report on property and incomes in time, I do not think it can be the case when it comes to organised political parties. The very fact that these reports have been filed by less than half of the entities required to do so tells us that in the next period we should consider the effects of the existing law on political parties, and to prescribe more sanctions for the responsible persons and the parties themselves, as well as the possibility of eradicating from the Register for non-fulfilment of these obligations. In 2020, the Agency also had a lot of work to do in monitoring the regular parliamentary and local elections and a great effort was made for all officials and employees to complete all activities in connection with the electoral procedures in time and time. With this in mind, what we are constantly drawing attention to in all reports is that the Agency is not yet staffed up to a full number of employees scheduled for systematicisation, i.e. that the percentage is only about 60%. I think that this issue in co-operation with the other competent authorities of the Government and this Assembly should finally be resolved, because by hiring a larger number of personnel, there should be far more control, and this would have a significant impact on the prevention of all kinds of irregular actions by individuals and political entities. In their reports and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens, among other things, found that in 2020 our older citizens were particularly difficult because of the pandemic of the Crown, which made them have to stay at their homes, which nevertheless reflected repeatedly in their mental and physical health and other life problems - the lack of family and gerontodomic visits, visits to health institutions, etc. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in his Report stated that the majority of complaints addressed by citizens refer to the public authorities in the employment process and that fewer are addressed in the areas of health care and public service provision. Dear Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, Mrs Jankovic, you are familiar with the complaint from Nis about the discrimination of members of the municipal council in the two municipality of Nis, which has been denied the right to compensation for the work achieved as other members of the Council. I ask you for information – how is it that the competent services of these municipalities do not respect the Labour Act and other laws that regulate these topics and precisely those older citizens who are in certain functions discriminate? Similar reports were also given by the Citizen's Protector, adding as well as the perceived problems and neglect of the elderly within the family, the availability of their property without consent and the difficulty in exercising the right to other people's care and assistance. Both institutions have given a series of suggestions and suggestions on how to overcome this situation, but they are mostly declarative and general character. But such ones also remind us that as a society and as a state, we need to pay greater attention to the position of our oldest population and how much easier it is for them to have daily life in the third century. Finally, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection in his Report is perhaps the darkest assessment of the situation in its respective area of reference to colleagues. Although the number of submissions made to this authority is in a certain decline compared to some earlier years, the data worry that the references in which applicants address the Trustee in a very large number of cases have been established and that these complaints are in the largest number of cases submitted because they do not receive any answers to the relevant requests by the competent authority for the provision of such information, but that the maximum number of such proceedings is suspended because the information is given when it is known about the address of the applicant to the Trustee. It is particularly bad that a huge number of state authorities and institutions, nearly two-thirds of the total number, still does not deliver by law mandatory annual reports to the Commissioner on the number of requests and cases sent to that body from this area, but also does not publish its official informers on its websites. Although they are not named, the report shows that among those who do not comply with these obligations there are even individual ministries and other state bodies and organisations at the republican level. As with the Anti-Corruption Agency and here, it should be filled in by systematicisation of the intended jobs, which would probably help to address the requests and requests more quickly, as well as to make the authorities more secure in providing the requested information, to which they are required by law. Finally, I would add that all four institutions in 2020 achieved positive financial indicators and eventually spent less money than what was allocated to them by the republican budget and should therefore be particularly commended. Their reports will be supported and voted on by the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P". Also, the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia, PUPS -- "Tri P" will support the other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote for. Dear friends, respected citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of independent bodies, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11989	Thank you. The word has Sandra Christmas's folk emissary. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11990	Thank you, Chairman. I refer to the breach of Rules 132 of the Rules of Procedure. You had the duty to point out to our guests who report today that the order at this session implies that you sit behind your seat and listen to whoever is authorized representative, in this case Mr. Hadji Milorad Stosic, and not to chat, I suppose, on any basis with the chairman. Please remind our participants of today's debate in the future that the reports concern their work. Unless it matters to them and if they don't respect the Rules of Procedure, they should at least respect the citizens who are following this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11991	Thank you. I think the MPs could clearly hear who the colleague you mentioned was talking to. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11993	Great. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11994	Thank you, Chairman. Dear presidents of independent bodies, I'd like to welcome you all one more time, and I'd like to say just a few things specifically concerning all of us here. The colleagues before me who spoke brought out a lot of things about your work. Let's say, first thing, the Anti-Corruption Agency, I think you're doing your job the way it's supposed to be done. The right thing is that in the next period you continue to work at such a pace, with what would be good for anyone who deals with politics, who deals with certain public functions, here I am here seven years back, and before that I was president of the municipality, I am ready to check every moment of my property, all my relatives, the nearest and the further ones, and to see how it can work, to work for the people, and normally, not to get rich. That's what I can say for myself, and that's what our president, Mr. Vukitch, is saying. This applies to other colleagues who have received the trust of the people, whether they are committees, whether they are presidents of the municipalities, whether they are council members, directors, MPs, ministers or something else. I'll back you up once more because what you're doing is doing the way you should be doing it. The report you filed is extremely high-quality. As for the rest of your colleagues who are here with us, I would like to mention the same about the Guardian of Citizens, about that report of yours. What you say is what we said when I was on the Child Rights Committee. I've more potentiated the problem of our citizens living in border areas, in rural areas where the conditions of life are not the same for all these citizens, for those of our children. Children in the country live very differently, live healthy lives, that is, good. Healthy nature, healthy food, all that exists, but that child in the country wants to have the same conditions of life, to have everything that a child has in the city, and that way it can develop, to grow. They're our children. They're smart kids, whether they're in the village or not, but those kids in the village would like to have the same opportunities, behave the same way, that they can learn and live in the same way as children in the city. What I'm saying is, I'm speaking from the workplace because for many years I've been a veterinary worker, an SUV, visiting our villages. I've been visiting our people and I've seen how to live, and then I've been working as the president of the municipality and I've been very active. I wanted to try in the community where I live and where I work to equalize those living conditions where we went one piece at a time. We've allocated funds to build these roads, everything we need. We also helped marriage communities, newborn children, unemployed families. There was more separation. Fifty percent of the doubles were for women, for those children living in rural areas, and then I also had applications from the then Protector of Gender Equality. I've had reports of why we now allocate more resources to those people who live in villages and less for those who live in the city. I'm talking about Srlig. It's an urban place, but it's still an urban place, so I had an application there at the time. That was 2010/2011. I still think that more funds should be allocated to anyone living in the rural area, for women in the country, for children in the country, for marriage communities in the country, because now, as of January 1, 2022, we will allocate 300,000 funds for each newborn child, with the potential for me later, when we discuss the amendments, there are differences for those children born in rural areas, because there we have to give them more attention, because as we have seen the demographic picture of our Serbia, all of us are less and less. Our centres, such as Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, are filling up, but therefore empty these border areas, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Bolovac and a large number of such places in both southeastern Serbia and other parts of Serbia. So, in such areas, we need to find opportunities and give greater support, and people who run certain corridors in the future government will certainly take care of it. This is what I'm talking about from experience, because, believe me, in Srlig, it's not the same person who lives in the rural area who lives in the city area. It's not the same for those people in Srlig himself because we have certain needs that we have now to provide, but it's something we're certainly going to do in 2022. One more important thing, I've talked about this many times, about our women in the country, these women in the country, we need to give more attention through all those sights that have the same women in the city. That woman in the country works from morning till tomorrow. That woman in the country protects her family, protects her children, goes to the field, works in the house every day. We have, for the first time, now this current government, given our president's insistence, given the possibility of having certain benefits and that woman living in the country tomorrow when she has children and that's something that hasn't happened so far, but we can work on it more, because we certainly need to give these women in the country the opportunity to make certain benefits, certain subsidies, certain things that the state of Serbia helps through certain visions within the family, within the framework of investments of the economy, crafts, cooperatives and everything else. Once again, these are important things and I will always insist on it because I feel the need to say it, because my mother is the person who's been in the field her whole life. No work experience. My father was a cop, he's retired now, so by the way, my father's got a good pension, so he's helping my mother, and so are we. There's a large number of such mothers and sisters. Women don't have health insurance, they don't have a chance... On the other hand, our agricultural producers don't want to give up their assets, those 50 acres of land he owns...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11995	Please bring the end. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11996	I'm done. The 50 acres that this man has in the village, he will never give it up in order to use social aid. Once again, distinguished representatives of all these bodies and agencies, I will support these reports, but on the other hand, see that those things that matter to our women, to our children in the country, to mountainous areas, to put an accent on that part and to put more support there. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11997	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11998	I am not voting for these reports, not because I have something concrete against these reports, but because I am against the concept of independent regulatory bodies, as I am against the concept of independent media and independent justice. When you put it this way, it looks a little ghastly, but I'll try to explain the whole concept briefly. In 1968, Mr. Robert Butler defined the term "Ajjjism" as a kind of discrimination against an elderly person. The term when our Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens, Ms Jankovic, defined it, said, among other things, that ejacism could be a kind of modern-day racism. It's very important to know the root of racism itself, the modern root of racism itself, and then the ideas of ajdhism, and then we'll connect to seeing how we've come to the fact that independent regulatory bodies are also problematic. Here, simply put, racism as the idea that a closed social community in encounter with foreigners sees them as unknown, and thus less valuable, is an archetype root of racism. A much more dangerous root of racism is what happened in modern times regarding Dutch and British slave merchants who massacred the African continent, exported them to America for their plantations and then had to explain to their society how that some human being could be taken to his blood, sweat, and life for that extra profit and be enriched so that they made their social success, not in some great genius. Such societies had to invent a story about modern racism, explain how people in Africa are lower values and, of course, all those who do not belong to their civilization circle of the political west. You see, they actually did it not because they thought they were morally superior, but they had to justify that kind of subjugation of man and his dignity for extra profit. In the same way today in a world where totalitarian capitalism of the Western globalist type requires us all to become human resources, it experiences people who have come to a certain age as a surplus, as a ballast, as someone who no longer serves anything in the profit-making process. That's what the idea of ajjism comes out of. This brings out the kind of modern racism that will take place in the future. What does that have to do with independent regulatory bodies? Well, if you look at when they appeared in our political system, they appeared after 5 October 2000, when we started Euro-Atlantic integration. Today we say it's just European integration, but I think there's plenty of atlantic. So, to the political West, to the idea that, simply, everything is subordinated to profit. All societies in their history are divided into those who serve the “golden bull, ” that is, profits and those who serve man. We define ourselves in our Euro-Atlantic integrations to go to societies that make us all profit and then ajjism is normal, then other forms of racism that are not talked about, which is primarily anti-Slovenian racism, racism towards new countries that appear, such as China, racism towards Asia. These are all things that are acceptable to them. They won't say them openly, but in their ranks they show it. Independent regulatory bodies have come forward as an attempt to remove from our national apparatus the story of protecting civil and human rights, to create so-called. independent bodies that will control our country so that it doesn't accidentally sin against our citizens. However, as it will now decide in a referendum on 16 January whether to allow judges to choose themselves, to be subject to the foreign influence of domestic power centres that are alienated from their people, so are independent regulatory bodies in their operation, when you look at it, often subject to pressure from so-called. independent media, so-called pressure. NGOs, which are according to our government alone, which actually belong to foreign governments and are funded by foreign governments and therefore I, in the same way that I believe there are no independent media, but there are only media that are dependent on their society and their people, and they respect the rules of objectivity and journalistic professions and those others who do not respect those rules, so I also think that the judiciary must be dependent on its people, which does not mean that it is dependent on political parties, and it must not be independent of its people and that it depends on those centres of power that invented this idea that they could destroy the sovereignty of the peoples who opposed them. That's how I think independent regulatory bodies should also return to the Serbian state apparatus, be there for more control, and therefore you do not come into the situation that you have to defend against media signs controlled by either the ruling party or foreign power centres. I have nothing against you personally, I have nothing against your reports, I just think it's high time to clear up with ideas that came into Serbia after 5 October 2000, and today they're giving us a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u11999	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, December 29th, 2021, starting at 17.30pm as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the 9th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I'm now setting a break, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-29-1.u12000	This is the next session. The first item of the agenda – The report on work for 2020, which was submitted by the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 15 December 2021. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, on 15 December 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 173, against – one, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. The second item of the agenda - I am putting to the vote the Opinion on the Review of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 22 December 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 174, against – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. The third item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the draft conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 22 December 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 174, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I now put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 23 December 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 174, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Fourth item of the agenda – I am voting on the Opinion on the Opinion on the Review of the Report on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 23 December 2021. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 173, against – one, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Sandra Christmas, at a session on 29 December 2021, at 13 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 132. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 176 MPs, for – 41, against – two, did not vote – 133. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the ninth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, since today is the end of the regular session, this concludes the Second Regular Session of this year. I invite you to listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) I thank and conclude both this session and the regular session. Since this is our last session this year, I want to congratulate you both on New Year's and Christmas holidays. The secretary general invites you to a cocktail.
