ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8272	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8273	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions concerning the current situation, related to traffic security, traffic participation, normally, to perform all those actions where the vehicle must be provided and ready to participate in traffic. Otherwise, 10 days ago, the Technical Review Regulation was amended, which defines certain actions within the technical review work, where because of this new regulation, the unpreparedness of people and owners of these technical checks, a large number of vehicle owners who highlight registration come into the situation that they need to carry out a technical examination, and they can't come into order, can't do a technical examination precisely because we have over 2.5 million vehicles in Serbia, where we have over 1,500 of these technical checks, and now perhaps 500 of these technical checks are in operation that work and are active. Other technical examinations are not consistent, they did not provide these machines that carry out these technical checks, and therefore comes into the situation that a large number of our drivers, our citizens who have vehicles cannot perform a technical examination, their registration comes out, and normally these people have problems. In particular, let's say we have about 50 of these technical checks in Nisavsky County, and now only 10 of them. There's a lot of traffic, a lot of anxiety, and when a man comes in, when he logs in for a technical checkup, it's due to an appointment, it's all recorded now, normally, all of this is to make it safer in traffic, so there's no problem, but on the other side of the vehicle that's going into the technical inspection, there's 17 shops, they're doing their controllers, there's the first one going into the technical inspection, all of it's recording the camera, there's no water for the wipers where the water is pouring, that controller gets that driver back, and he's got to fix that mistake in 72 hours. That's part of it. Maybe there's a situation where the back of the door is scratched, and the same vehicle has to come back and that driver and the owner of that vehicle can't do a technical examination until it's done. All of this probably has something to do with it, but I think it's important for all of us that the right hives, the controls and everything that protects the safety of that vehicle tomorrow. All these little mistakes, whether the last wiper doesn't work well or the broom on the wiper is something worse, all this is now causing a problem for those of our vehicle owners who need to do a technical checkup. They're coming back, and it's getting crowded again. In 72 hours, that owner of the technical examination should re-apply to that driver, or the owner of that vehicle, to carry out a technical examination if there is a place. If there is no room and goes 72 hours, that owner of the vehicle and the driver to whom the technical examination is done must re-pay the technical examination. Now the increased cost of technical checks, from 4,500 now goes up to 7,200 dinars, which is a pretty big blow for our drivers, for our car owners, because we are all aware that the situation is even more difficult in southeast Serbia, and the essence of all of us is to ensure that traffic is as secure as possible, but that this is not done in such a way that without some irrelevant things, a man returns, time is wasting. Otherwise, the minimum technical examination work for one vehicle is 30 minutes. Now that it's done, when it's all recorded, these shops last a lot longer, and that's why they're doing a small number of vehicles. Right now, a large number of our vehicle owners are waiting to do a technical checkup because the full technical review... The owner and these workers went on vacation because there are some disagreements, some inexplicable things, so they went on technical vacation checks, and now our car owners can't do it, they can't put the vehicle into operation, and a lot of them are living, they're professional drivers. I think it is necessary for the competent Ministry of Traffic, the Ministry of Traffic, the Agency for the Safety of Traffic, that certain things, those concerning pro-forma, paperwork, certain small things like scratching the door or that the broom on the last wiper is not good, to ensure that these people can fix it and that they do not return to doing technical checks and make costs. One of the important things for us dealing with agriculture is that a large number of municipalities, such as the municipality of Svrljig, the municipality of Bela Palanka, the municipality of Gajin Han, the municipality of Meroshin, have problems that they cannot do technical checks on tractors because the technical checks that exist in those territories do not have the opportunity to perform a technical examination on tractors. We're all witnessing that a large number of our people, farmers...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8274	Milia, it's got to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8275	Here, I'm finishing up, it would be good to allow these people to do a technical examination on tractors and not do them any great harm. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8276	Thank you. The word has Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8277	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Maria Obradovic for the Ministry of Justice and for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens have asked us to ask the government of Serbia, the government of the state administration and local self-government, as well as the other resolution ministries, whether it is feasible for them to form their new so-called. The rural municipalities are thus given the opportunity to decide to a greater extent on the needs and development of their local community, and, behold, on their behalf, we convey that question? We of the PUPS Group "Tri P" stressed that it is necessary to define a new policy of equal regional development as soon as possible to reduce the inequality of the region while at the same time speeding up individual development and recognizable personalities. The first step in this big business is to create a map of Serbia's districts, which should represent a rounded unity of natural, demographic, economic and economic, sociological and cultural personalities with a striking gravity centre. The PUPS Group Tri P proposes a new reonisation for the start of eastern, southern and south-west Serbia, while at the same time determining the gravitating centres of those areas, which would become new municipalities. For this PUPS proposal, i.e. The establishment of new rural municipalities is a legal basis in the current positive legislation, and above all in the Law on Territorial Organisation and the Law on Local Self-Government, where the Law on Territorial Organization provides for Article 11(3), that, exceptionally when there are specific economic, geographical or historical reasons, new municipalities that have less than 10,000 inhabitants can be established. The Law on Local Self-Government in Article 17, paragraph 2, states that the territory for which a local self-government unit is established is a natural and geographical continent, an economically connected space that owns developed and built communication between populated places with its headquarters as a gravity centre. Article 18 paragraph 4 of the same law states that just as in the Law on Territorial Organization, it can be established in the case of special economic, geographical or historical reasons, a new municipality that has less than 10,000 inhabitants can be established. Also, according to the current Law on Territorial Organisation in Serbia, 30 local self-governments have the status of the city, and as is known, the city on its territory can form special urban municipalities. However, it is symptomatic that seats so-called. urban municipalities are normally established in urban areas, not in larger villages that also belong to the territories of these cities. At the time of the formation of these so-called so-called. rural municipalities in Serbia's border areas should pay particular attention to giving them special incentive rights in terms of tax cuts and contributions, as well as to reducing VAT rates, but also to providing for the possibility of adding salaries to doctors, workers, veterinarians and other public workers to further motivate them to work and live in this country, to Serbia, to important environments. For example, the topic we are talking about I have chosen the Babusnica Municipality whose specificity is part of its territory because it is located on the border with the European Union and NATO member Bulgaria. Also, the important specificity of Babusnica Municipality has been a constant outflow of the population, in the last 50 years the population has been reduced by more than 50%. The economy is quite underdeveloped, the unemployment rate is significantly higher than the republican average. In terms of an existing or potential gravity centre, the village of Gorcinci, several kilometers south of the village of Babusnica and through which the road of Piroth-Babusnica-Vlasotince-Leskovic passes. Due to the proximity of the international traffic corridor 10 from Nis to Sofia, Turkey and the countries of Asia Minor Babusnica Municipality and all its villages have the greatest opportunity to develop rural tourism. By forming a new municipality with a centre in the village of Gorcinca, citizens of the region would decide more directly on issues relevant to the development and life of residents of the region. Similar examples can be found throughout Serbia. Therefore, the question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Village Care – is it possible to enter into the process of establishing new municipalities on the basis of existing legal solutions and without amending the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, and is this topic of strategic importance discussed for our country at the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8278	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8279	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while Serbs condemn the genocide in Srebrenica, which was missing by all international and legal criteria, so long as all Serbian victims in BiH are unfortunately still silent. We do not argue that during the bloody war that disintegrated the SFRY there were war crimes and we, of course, condemn them, whoever did them, but does it make any sense to keep quiet over 3,500 Serb victims committed in villages around Srebrenica and Bratunca where both children and women were brutally murdered? On July 12th 1992, the Serbian population and the burned-out spring house were killed in this raid of the Serbian villages of Zalazia, Biljaca, Sasa and Zagona. For this mutual conflict and the loss of the Serb peoples, they are sentenced to life sentences, even for commanding responsibility, and for 3,500 Serbian victims, a single shameful verdict has been convicted. No one has been responsible for this crime and the international community here, including the countries of the region, has been absolutely silent for two decades. Despite all Serbian victims, despite all that was happening in the 1990s, Serbia has apologized for the crimes and was the first country in the region to do so by adopting a resolution on the conviction of the Srebrenica crime. It was our international and moral obligation. Serbia's policy is clear. We are for reconciliation policy, for peace and stability in the region, which we have shown many times, especially by our solidarity with all the countries in the region in a period of covid. Just to show national responsibility, then Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic went to Potocara to express his condolences to the victims' families, and how was he welcomed? Lynch, stoning and attempted murder. So, in the most brutal way possible. No one has responded to this shameful act against Serbian official either. Republika Srpska's interior minister has officially announced that there is a number of incontrovertible evidence, photographs and names of the organisers of the attack on Aleksandr Vukic and we ourselves have witnessed that in that time TV broadcast, an unequivocally seen that it was a well-organised and planned attack, not an individual, as it were said. This was an attempt to kill a statesman. The BiH institutions have had six years to investigate this case and prosecute the perpetrators, but apparently they do not want it. So I would ask the government and the MUP -- can the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia do anything to detect and condemn the perpetrators of the assassination attempt on Alexander Vukic in Potocari? Could the Ministry of Serbia ask the institutions of Republika Srpska for all the evidence collected to ask BiH to take adequate measures against the perpetrators of this shameful act? This is what we are obliged to do, as we are obliged to seek the condemnation of all crimes committed against Serbs, because the phenomenon of reducing and disdaining Serbian victims has become a practice almost in all countries of the region, unfortunately, I repeat, and for more than two decades the entire international community is silent. This is about double standards, not international law. I cannot apply justice and the right to apply it selectively. We talked about it more than once and only to us Serbs. What about the Serbian victims in Croatia, BiH, KIM and do we have the right to truth and justice? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8280	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8281	Dear President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs, respected citizens, I request a notice from the KIM Office, Protector of the Citizens, from the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality of the Competitive Rights of Serbian heroine Dragica Gasic of Djakovica. Threatening, her rights are being trampled by the false state of Kosovo, the Djakovica municipality and the numerous extremists who attack her daily. Mrs. Gasic has become a symbol of the death of the Serb people in KIM, a new symbol of the fight for human rights and the fight against Albanian racism and inhumanity. Mrs. Gasic is the bravest woman in the world. They should feel ashamed of all those who call out the phrase "events in Prizren", and Dragica Gasic showed them her courage with her parole that she carried out this year in Djakovica. Albanian authorities of Kurti, Osmani, have shown unprecedented primitiveism and racism so far. They were frightened by a woman who dared to return to Djakovica, a woman alone. They physically attack Dragica Gashi, they throw her out of the apartment, they harass her, they want to kill her now. She's not allowed into the store and she doesn't want to be sold bread. She's the only Serbian girl in Djakovica. She was born in Djakovica, married, gave birth to children, worked at the MUP as a cleaning lady. She escaped from Djakovica in 1999 so she wouldn't be killed with her entire family. After 22 years of June 9th this year she returned to her home, to her apartment, to her town. For a month now, she has suffered unprecedented harassment from Albanians and from the Djakovic municipality. Mrs. Gasic, to be clear, has received all the necessary assistance and support from President Vukic, from the KIM Office, from Minister Goran Rakic. Kim's office bought a blinded door, video surveillance, bars on the apartment, furniture, the Internet, and provided food supplies. Unfortunately, Albanians immediately destroyed and attacked a brave man who delivered food. The Kosovo Ministry of Community and Returns Goran Rakic provided assistance to Dragic in the form of furniture, white techniques and food, and the humanitarian organisation "Serbian Solidarity" bought the water heater and TV. Unfortunately, the blinded door and bars were seized by the Djakovica municipality and the police. I can't believe it. With no food delivery, Dragica Gasic, now this Friday, five days ago, went to the store to buy bread, because all the shops in Albania and no store wanted to let her buy anything, wanted to sell her bread. The sea is smoother. Dragica has diabetes, she's operated on her spine and she's walking harder, and yet she goes to the church every day "Success of the Holy Mother" to find peace there. Serbs in Kosovo in 2021 have fewer rights than African-Americans in Alabama in 1955. Then, in the city of Montgomery, Alabama, the famous Rosa Parks was arrested for being on the bus to the village for white people. But Rosa Parks and other African-Americans were then able to buy bread and food uninterrupted in 1955, and listen, Rose Parks has launched the entire struggle for human rights in the United States is Martin Luther King's movement against racism and segregation. Aleksandar Vukic has done more for Serbs at KIM Matin Luther King, President Vukic has done for Serbs on KIM than anyone in the last 100 years, and there is no Albanian movement against racism and segregation in KIM, but there is an Albanian authority that supports racism and segregation. Where are Albanian MPs here today to say a word to protect Dragica Gasic? They're gone. Once a month, they come to the Assembly to surface the government, when questions are asked, to take money, and for the next month, they are gone and so every month. Unmik and the OSCE unfortunately provide only a soft verbal support to Dragica Gasic. They're not doing anything to protect her. Šute Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Latina Perovic and Marinika Tepic, in their 155,000-euro "Kajen" Porsche. If an Albanian or Bosniak woman were at risk, all four would scream to heaven. Autoskillers don't care about the lonely Serbian girl Dragica Gasic, an angel from Djakovica. But Darling's not alone. With it are Alexander and Peter and Marko and Goran and Dalibor and Milan and Igor and Anna and the whole government and the whole parliament, all of us. With Dragic, there's all of Serbia. What does Dragica Gasic say? I quote "They intended to drive me out of the city, from the apartment that I received in 1993 as a worker in Serbia's MUP, where I lived with two children, because my husband died. It has all the necessary papers, not only before the war, but also from the Kosovo agency. I don't care, but Djakovica is my home. They wrote a petition to move me out and drive me away. Let them protest. They're in their town like I am, so let them do what they think they need to do. I, I know I've never done anything to anyone. I gave birth to two children here. What are Albanians doing in Djakovica and government and civil society? Djakovica municipality has filed a lawsuit seeking the annulment of the legal agreement, Dragica Gasic, and 11 humanitarian organisations, watch out, Albanian NGOs from Djakovica are asking local authorities to move Dragica Gasic out of Djakovica. What humanity. Nusrete Kumnova, president of the Mothers Association in a statement for Radio Free Europe says -- she can't live here, all Serbs committed crimes, and she comes to live here, no. And not only that, we do not allow any Serb to return. The end of the quote. What a humanitarianity. The rate of return of Serbs to KIM in the last 22 years is less than 2%. To repeat, Serbs at KIM in the Albanian environment, in 2021 have fewer rights than African-Americans in the United States in Alabama in 1955, but African-Americans were at least able to buy bread. Albanian racism, segregation and hatred of Serbs are much greater than racism, segregation and hatred of white supremists in the South of the United States at the time of 1955. Albanian racists do not allow Dragica Gasic to buy bread. They're trying to get her hungry. With the Turks, Albanians committed genocide against Serbs, to remind, in the 18th and 19th centuries, and all historians such as this and this capital part testify, Dimitria Bogdanovic, "The Book of Kosovo". In both world wars, Albanians fought on the side of evil and killed Serbs. Yes, Serbian forces committed crimes against Albanians in 1999, but also vice versa. In 1998 and 1999, however, Albanians killed Serbs by finding new methods of inhumanity, trade in organs taken and killed Serbs. In this way, Albanians at KIM, but also in Albania, killed about 1,000 Serbs and were testified by former prosecutor Carla Del Ponte and Dick Marti and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Albanians killed our children in 2003 in Gorazdevec, committed a terrible coup on 17 March 2004 and killed many Serbs. All these crimes I've listed have never been punished by any Albanian, no one. I end up, if they could, Albanian authorities would kill all 95,000 Serbs living on KIM, but they can't. Why can't they? They must not because Vucic has made Serbia strong and elevated. The only thing the Albanians laugh about is that the sea is starving for Serbian heroine Dragic, the only Serbian woman in Đakovica. He pays for his beloved land, pays for his freedom, lives for Serbia, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8282	Thank you. Since no one to the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, is answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the sitting agenda as soon as possible, as requested by 233 MPs. You have been presented the minutes of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, held on 23, 24, 29 and 30 June. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: of a total of 167, 13 MPs did not vote for 154. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 233 Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session with a specific agenda contained in that request. For the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, the following Dn e n i r e d 1 was defined. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, Project of Remote Heating in Kragujevac, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia No. 1 of 2021 amending and supplementing Protocol B with the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia concerning the definition of the concept of "produced products" and methods of administrative co-operation, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods on the basis of an MDP document (Karneta TIR) (TIR Convention, 1975)., which was submitted by the Government and 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Article 4(1)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 shall apply. The Rules of Procedure proposed that it be carried out: 1st joint general search on the first two points of the agenda, and 2nd joint single search from 3rd to 7th item of the agenda. Does Mr. Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 173, for -164, did not vote - nine. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I hereby inform you that they are invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Irena Vujović, Minister of Environmental Protection, Aleksandar Dujanović and Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Natasa Milić, Executive Director of the Republic Department for Water at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Sara Pavkov, Special Advisor at the Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Aleksandra Stojanović, Jelena Dučić and Mirjana Vasiljević, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Environment Protection, Slavica Stojanović, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Lidija Stevanović and Sneza Prokić, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Environment, Hispan, Security and Security of the Republic of Agriculture and Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia , the Republic of Croatia ofCroatia , the Republic ofCroatia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Nature and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8283	Thank you, Chairman. As we heard, today's agenda changes and additions of two laws, which I will present to you. First of all, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about the bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. The need for people to protect nature goes back in time. And then, as today, the primary goal was to protect certain areas and natural resources against negative influence and irrational use. The first ideas about the need for nature protection in Serbia date back to the 14th century, when it was 1349, in Article 123. Dusan’s code for miners was forbidden to cut down forests, i.e. the established planting obligation in the places where the forest was cut down. The Republic of Serbia, through nature protection, protects its resources and can be proud of the key link to nature protection, which is protected areas. They are the most well-preserved and prominent representatives of biodiversity and wildlife, geographical and geological sights and beauty of the country's nature. They represent the most important tool for direct protection of nature. A common question arises whether protected areas are used in the best possible way? He can always do better. They are, above all, protected to preserve the natural activities that already exist in these areas and which could be developed and directed towards the preservation of basic values, which is also a system of sustainable development, that is, the coherence of economic and social development, on the one hand, and the protection of nature, on the other hand. Nature protection can be achieved through the participation of the local population, but in a sustainable way - by achieving economic plans and by ensuring quality of life, in line with the requirements of nature conservation. Protected areas represent capital, and when we talk about natural values, we're talking about natural capital, and we're not talking about exploiting resources. Nature provides us with not only material wealth, but also spiritual health, the foundation of a healthy environment and sustainable development, and therefore nature protection should be a concern for all of us. Before today the entire planet faces great challenges, providing health and safety food, clean water and preserving natural ecosystems. Under the regulations governing the area of nature protection in the Republic of Serbia from World War II to the present day, more than 470 of these areas, whose total area is currently 678,000 644 hectares, representing 7.67 territory of the Republic of Serbia, were declared. Nature protection in the Republic of Serbia is governed by the Nature Protection Act, which regulates the protection and preservation of nature and natural values, biological, geological and non-diverse areas as part of the environment in a manner and under the conditions laid down by the law. Nature and natural values enjoy special protection as good of general interest for the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the basic Nature Protection Act sets out the objectives and principles of nature protection and natural values, then protects natural goods, the process of declaring protected areas, planning and managing protected areas. It is also designed to protect and preserve wild species, protect mobile natural documents, nature protection organisations, sign of nature protection, finance nature protection, safeguarding and protected areas, nature protection documents, access to information and public participation, supervision and competence to resolve complaints, criminal provisions, transitional and final provisions. However, in the application of the Nature Protection Act, there was a need for amendments and additions to certain provisions of the law. I will now present to you the key amendments to the Nature Protection Act. The draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act defines the precautionary principle in cases where there is a threat of damage to the protected area or areas of the ecological network and when we have insufficient scientific data. In these cases, the lack of scientific data will not be taken as a reason for not making a decision, delaying or not taking measures to prevent, endanger and degrade nature. The relevant environmental law in Article 9 defines the precautionary principle in a way that is not adequate for the purpose of nature protection, as it does not recognise the essential condition of applying the precautionary principle in terms of scientific uncertainty regarding risk. In this respect, the proposed provision fills in the observed legal gap and introduces this legal principle of environmental protection adapted to the specific objectives of nature protection and the requirements of the EU directives. The process of assessing acceptability by giving consent to the ministry, i.e. plans and programmes that are under preparation, which may have a significant impact on the objectives of conservation and integrity and an ecologically significant area, can only be adopted after the non-acceptability procedure has been implemented. A significant change relates to the act on the conditions of nature protection for national parks and protected areas of first and second category, which is declared by the Government, being adopted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the protected areas declared by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province. This amendment shall ensure that, when adopting and determining the conditions under which certain activities in protected areas may be carried out are more actively and timely, to meet and involve these bodies in the process, all in order to prevent adverse consequences by nature. The same article shall also define the content of the Nature Protection Act, introduce a term of professional basis and define the content and body that it adopts. Also, by prescribing the obligation to deliver the Terms Act, protect the nature of the controller from the protected area, adequate participation of the controllers of the protected area shall be ensured. This removes the shortcomings in the practice so far when the persons, or bodies, often have no knowledge of the conditions of nature protection until the time when certain works and activities have started, allowing for their mild reaction. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature is amended and complemented by members who are more detailed and more precise in the transposition of obligations under the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive in order to more comprehensively regulate the instruments for the protection and management of the Natura 2000 ecological network in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, the provisions relating to the acceptability assessment process for the ecological network, as well as the provisions on the ecological network, are more detailed and more fully defined, thus defining one of the most important processes in nature protection, which is the process of establishing the ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, ie the EU ecological network "Natura 2000", in accordance with the requirements of the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and wild animal and plant species and the Wildbird Conservation Directive. This improves the legislative basis for long-term conservation of species and habitats of importance for the EU in the Republic of Serbia, in order to preserve biodiversity and landscapes of diversity. Also, one of the key reasons for the proposed changes relates to the ban on the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas, thus ensuring long-term conservation of natural values that set the protected area and declared it. Amendments to the Nature Protection Act also achieve compliance with other system laws, namely the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Inspective Control and Consistency with the recently adopted laws on the use of renewable energy sources. This ensures better functioning of the system, given that nature protection is a concern and responsibility for all of us, as well as a problem that must be addressed cross-cuttingly, i.e. by recognising the importance of nature protection through other system laws, as arranged through a set of energy laws that have recently been adopted in this Assembly. The proposed amendments prescribe that the area of the ecological network, which is at the same time a protected area or within or within the limits of the protected area, shall be managed by the operator of that area. For the management of an ecologically significant area and an ecological corridor which is not protected as protected by the Government on a proposal from the competent authority, it may designate or establish a legal person. It is also specified that until the adoption of a new act on declaration, the regimes and measures prescribed in the protection study are applied and a copy of the protection study is published on the website of the Ministry, on the basis of which the interested public will be able to identify in the area of defined borders and protection regimes. An obligation shall be imposed on the Ministry to make public insights into the proposal for an act declaring on its web presentation of the publication and the professional basis of the institutions. In order to make public participation more transparent in the adoption of a management plan for a protected area, it is also introduced to the controller to organise a public consultation during the duration of public awareness. As the National Parks Act provides for an obligation for public undertakings operating national parks to form user advice, the proposed amendments also introduce the possibility for managers of other protected areas to form user advice. This ensures the interests of the local population, as well as of all users of the protected area. The proposed amendments shall specify and provide incentives in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the preservation and protection of biological, predetermined and geological diversity for units of local self-government on whose territory the area declared by the Government Act is established, with a view to developing those activities that favour the preservation of the protected area. I want to take the opportunity to remind us all of the relationship between man and nature and the need to preserve it. It is necessary to keep in mind the diversity and wealth of nature. It's part of our legacy. Just as we are making efforts to protect the cultural heritage that represents our pride and identity, it is so important that we are all able to protect nature, so that our descendants do not forget the white-headed soup, the dropper and the owner's tail or other endangered species. I firmly believe that we have an obligation to give our descendants the satisfaction of meeting the young people from Drina, Pancic's omorika with Tara, the magnificent waterfalls on the Old Mountain, the areas of Fruska Mountain, the dunolist from Kopalnik. By adopting this bill, we are one step closer to meeting the obligations to protect nature and to allow future generations to enjoy the benefits of the nature of the Republic of Serbia in a sustainable way. Allow me to conclude my presentation on the subject of the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. By passing this law, a series of positive effects are realized. First of all, by introducing the precautionary principle, it is possible that in cases where there is a direct danger to nature, it is adequately and timely to react immediately, although at that time we do not possess enough scientific data. By assuming the obligation to issue an act on the conditions of protection of nature, the Ministry of Environmental Affairs, as well as the competent regional authority, has the possibility of better insight and timely response for all works and activities on protected areas of the first and second categories. Amendments to the Nature Protection Act will also allow for an increase in area under protected areas and for the achievement of the objectives defined by the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. The formation of the Council of Consumers of the Protected Area shall ensure the interests of the local population, as well as of all other users of the protected area, including civil society organisations. It is possible to develop local self-government on whose territory this area is also located by providing incentives in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dear People's MPs and MPs, I would like to conclude my presentation on the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act. I am at your disposal for all questions and I hope that in the voting day you will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8284	Thank you, Minister. We're now moving on to the committee's informants. From the Committee on Environmental Protection, the word is Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8285	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Dacic. Dear Minister, Mrs Vujovic, with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, held at a session yesterday, on 12 July, discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, which the government submitted, in principle. We had the opportunity to really get acquainted with the amendments and additions of this law, where your associates detailed the changes and additions and gave us the answers to all the questions and suggestions we had. The reasons for the proposed amendments to the Nature Protection Act are the need to address certain problems and shortcomings identified in the current practice of law enforcement, which led to the need to specify already transported obligations under two important EU directives, namely the Directive on the protection of natural habitats and wild birds of animal species, the Directive on the conservation of wild birds, the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Law on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia and the need to comply with the Law on inspection. One reason for proposing changes concerns the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas. Water management is based, among other things, on the principle of sustainable development. Water management must take place in such a way that the needs of current generations are met in a way that does not endanger future generations' ability to meet their needs, i.e. to ensure water use based on long-term protection of available water resources by quantity and quality. Given that the recently passed law on renewable energy sources prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas as one of the types of renewable energy sources, these changes achieve compliance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Nature protection can only be achieved with inter-resorial multi- and interdisciplinary co-operation in this area. If the criteria for the protection of biodiversity in sectoral development policies, such as energy, agriculture, forestry and water, are not ensured, we will not be able to effectively achieve environmental protection. The objective to achieve is to build an effective system of management of protected areas that will ensure that what is protected is also preserved, improved in the right and sustainable way, in the public interest, but also for the benefit of people living in protected areas and economic development carriers. Since we have really discussed yesterday all these reasons for making amendments and supplementing this important law, where your associates have detailed all the points of this law, a simple member per member, the Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8286	Thank you. Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8287	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, Water and Forestry considered the law and accepted it. Water is the most important source of life. Water without man can, but a man without water can't. When the wells dry, when the springs dry, when the rivers dry, when the lakes dry, then we shall appreciate the value of the water. For example, the finest water from Durmitor, Diva, in my opinion, Durmitor Mountains, 1400, 1500 meters above sea level. The real wealth of the Serbian people is on Durmitor. Water is the greatest treasure. Today is July 13th, today is the day of the Serbian uprising in Montenegro, as was the Serbian uprising in Banat. It was called the Vresca Rebellion. So Banat is a geographical definition, Montenegro, whose statehood no one touches, at that point was just an occupied geographical definition. The Serbian uprising was raised by Bajo Stanisic, a general staff officer, I think he was a colonel. The uprising was also raised by Pavle Djurisic. The uprising, with the greatest act, was raised by Blazo Djukanovic. Blažo Djukanovic, the grandfather of today's Djukanovic. He knew what for Serbs, what for the citizens of Montenegro, what for the citizens of then-Yugoslavia means water, how much to defend. On that occasion, it was the largest uprising in the enslaved Europe, it was an uprising against the occupiers, where two Serb gendarmes were not killed, but 700 and some occupier Italian soldiers were killed, and more than 1,000 captured, large quantities of weapons and ammunition captured. The uprising was stifled mainly thanks to Serbia's dissension, where ideological conflicts and where ideology, there, was also more than water. My advice to all of us is that never while others fight against us, shall we ever fight against ourselves or among ourselves again. Of our pedestals, of our quarrels, which we didn't guard water, rivers, mountains, our country has always benefited our opponents. That's why even now that I'm talking about the waters, I had to tie it to the uprising and July 13th. I don't know if one day Milo Krinakapic, those lithiums that were remarkable, impressive, will adopt ideologically as some kind of Milo victory and Milo's walk, etc., such as some of our uprisings ideologically adopted from one side to the other. Today, in Montenegro, which has broken apart from Serbia by its own will, it is today that Serbs are asked there to separate not only territorially, but also national and spiritually, to separate from the Serbian Orthodox Church, to separate from Negos. Today, those others, who, for example, joined Boka Kotorska with a gun and leather coat, who earlier declared to join the Kingdom of Serbia, joined them with a gun in 1944. Today it is said that we occupied the occupied Montenegro in 1918, occupied the water, the coast, occupied probably from Sutomor to Herceg Novi. Without the Serbian army, and in it I count Serbs from Montenegro, today's coast of Montenegro would not be from Ulcinj to Herceg Novi, but would already be where it was in 1914 and 1918, from Ulcinj to Sutomor. It is therefore important to appreciate water and to appreciate freedom fighters who defend water, mountains and land. People are mortal, people die, but the glory of freedom fighters never dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8288	Thank you. The Committee for European Integration, Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8289	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is an important part of European policy and the protection of nature and the fight against climate change on a global scale. When we talk about the regulations of the European Union in this area, therefore, from both the area of nature protection and environmental protection, these European Union regulations are extremely large, so there are many of them, and if they were to add them all together and look at almost one-third of all European Union rules, then one-third of the total rules of the European Union. But we must be aware that the transposition of European Union rules into our country's legal system is only zeroes or a first step in the process of adapting to European standards. What may be even more important or minimally important and what needs to be understood is the implementation of these regulations and their adequate application, both at national, regional, etc. and of course at local level. One of the most important tasks in the process of nature protection, as we have heard from the distinguished minister, is the process of establishing an ecological network, both the ecological networks of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union's ecological network "Natura 2000", which actually allows us to change and supplement, are more precise. With certain provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment that lies ahead, if I understood correctly yesterday at the session of the Committee on European Integration, we had the last amendments in 2018, and the law was passed in 2009. These amendments have now brought into line with European Union rules, as it was simply necessary to specify and remove the shortcomings observed in the previous application in practice and which, as we have heard, relate to the process of assessing the acceptability of the ecological network, as well as the provisions themselves are specified on that ecological network. The provisions of the draft law have been defined exactly in accordance with the directives she mentioned in her opening statement, as well as the honourable minister, as well as the chairman of the Committee of Origin for Ecology. So these are two directives, in particular, Directive 43 – on the conservation of the natural habitats of wild animal and plant species and the second Directive is Directive 147 – on the conservation of wild birds. These changes and additions relate to the establishment of an acceptability procedure for the ecological network. The provisions on the ecological network are very detailed and more fully defined than before, which, as we heard yesterday at the Committee session, is how the process of establishing the protection, management and financing of the environmental network of the Republic of Serbia is defined, i.e. the ecological network of the so-called European Union. ‘Natura 2000’, which is defined fully in accordance with both the habitat directives and the bird directive, which I mentioned earlier. The new solution contained in these amendments and additions to the Law provides that giving prior consent to the plan and plans which together or alone means with other plans and projects can have a significant negative impact on the objectives of the conservation and integrity of the ecologically significant area. Therefore, that this prior consent may be given only after the procedure or assessment of the acceptability and procedure of the existence of prevailing public interest has been carried out. So these are your exceptions. It is foreseen that the acceptability assessment process is carried out in accordance with the precautionary principle based on best available scientific evidence, which we consider to be extremely relevant and method in the framework of the preparation of the plan and programme. The very proposal for a law that lies before us requires that an ecological network be established as a coherent functional and spatially connected continent in order to preserve habitats of particular importance for the protection for the restoration and improvement of damaged habitats and for the preservation of wild flora and fauna habitats. In doing so, the Committee on European Integration at yesterday's session established that these proposed amendments and amendments to the Law were in line with the proposed directives and we supported them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8290	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8291	Thank you. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, today it has been my duty to present this bill as well. Constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and contained provisions of Article 97(1), point 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia is regulating, provides a system for protecting and improving the environment. This law now regulates water, as one of the most important elements of the environment, i.e. water land as well as of general interest. I'll give you the key changes and additions to the Water Act. The proposed changes to the Water Act are subject to the alignment of the law with the provisions of the laws adopted and the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on inspection, the Law on Infringements, the Data Protection Act as a Person and the Public Property Act. In addition to harmonising the solution and the Water Act with those laws, the proposed amendments are agreed to the provisions of the Water Act with the programme for simplifying administrative procedures and regulatory e-papers for the period from 2019 to 2021 with the Action Plan for its implementation, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 11 July 2019, which provides for amendments and additions to the Water Act. In order to achieve the rights and obligations of citizens more efficiently and rationally and meet their needs by the Water Act, certain businesses in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia are entrusted to other entities, the Autonomous Region, the city of Belgrade, the unit of local self-government, the public water company. Since the Water Act, as a special law, is not defined by the authorities of the state administration who oversee the work of public authorities in the conduct of entrusted transactions established by law, the bill requires that the supervision of the work of the province's authorities and bodies of local self-government units and public water undertakings in the conduct of entrusted transactions established by the Water Act be carried out by the authorities of the state administration from whose work these transactions are part of. As the current application of the Water Act as well as the analysis of the provisions requiring opinions, i.e. submitted initiatives to amend them, pointed to the existence of certain legal gaps or insufficiently clear norms which create difficulties in its application in order to address the perceived shortcomings and improvements in the solution, this proposal sets out certain provisions or solutions. Thus, since the Water Act does not contain a provision that requires that the extremely direct water land contract in public property can be leased in the lease of amendments of members and 10b of the Water Act, it stipulates that water land is exceptionally leased by direct contract in cases where it is prescribed by specific law, if only a solution, directly, indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources within the meaning of the law governing the budgetary system, the selected contractor, is possible in order to extract river applications for the purpose of building objects of importance for the Republic of Serbia, which are, as such, on a proposal from the Ministry of Civil Engineering Offices, in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction. Also, the bill stipulates that water land in public property can be leased and directly contracted for floating facilities placed on waterland in Belgrade's territory until the day of entry into force of the law. Since the Nature Protection Act is prescribed to plan, edit and use areas of natural resources protected areas of the environmental network in mining, energy, transport, water economy, agriculture, forestry, hunting, fisheries, tourism and other activities from environmental impact, it must comply with the act on the declaration of protected area and guidelines for the management of environmental network areas. This law stipulates that the water land in public property which is leased in public competition proceedings, or the collection of written offers through public advertising, located in the protected area or area of the ecological network, shall be leased under the prior consent of the Ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks. In addition to the above, in order to remove unequal practice in the process of issuing water conditions, the addition of Article 118 shall be carried out. Water law. By regulation that, even in the process of issuing water conditions outside the process of a common procedure, the opinions of those legal entities are obtained in order to remove problems in the application of the Water Act when it comes to determining the width of coastal land, canals, i.e. the identification of water facilities, facilities for the production of hydroelectric energy and other purposes. This law complements Article 9. The Law on Waters, providing that the width of the coastal land belt of the canal is up to five metres, and the amendment of Article 18(3) is carried out by precision of water-use facilities, hydroelectric energy production facilities and other purposes. As the deadline for setting water land limits is set by the Water Act on 31 December 2019, the draft law extends that deadline, so it is prescribed that the ministry, and in the territory of the AP, will set the limits of water land by 31 December 2023. The proposed changes would also ensure that water facilities are registered in public property, in a public register, a building building building site. It is prescribed that the water facilities listed according to the previously applicable rules on state diameter and motion cataster are entered only in A list, a list of immovableities as a method of land use, but not in the V1 list as construction facilities, are entered in the V1 list, a list of immovableities as objects based on geodetic work embodies. It would therefore conclude its presentation on the basis of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act. I hope that in the voting day you will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8292	Thank you. We are now going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has a vice president, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8293	The Honorable Presidential National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People and Honored Citizens, the subject that today is before us of the Nature Protection Act, as well as the Waters Act, is actually a topic which has not only gained its significance in modern human civilization, but over two thousand years ago actually philosophy as one of the most significant sources of human knowledge and knowledge is created on the subject of nature. The most important, the first, actually philosophers, founders of philosophy, Xenofan, Protagora and Tagora and others, were dealing with topics of nature, relations in nature, earth, air, water, fire. Meaning and relations. True, shortly thereafter, the next group of philosophers who actually represent that play of the strongest and strongest, greatest philosophers, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle sees something that later and marked philosophy throughout its history and development, which is that only consideration of nature, natural phenomena and nature relations without man has no great meaning. That's why in their philosophy, they put the focus on man, man as bearer of responsibility in nature, because in all these books nature is the grace that the exalted gives man for use and protection. This is what represents the essence and modern approach to nature and the attempt to find a way of proper or healthy, or balanced human relationship to nature. That's what the principle, what the ideal is, what it's trying to do. But on the other hand, we have what we can recognize, as a paradox, that modern human civilization at the height of its power, its technological, scientific and overall development, has a kind of difference in catching steps in harmony with nature. It is, of course, not only a paradox that needs to be established, but also a key question of modern civilization, where today, through the form of legislative activities, we are trying to find the best way, because somehow it would be logical, that how human civilization is progressing, that human harmony with nature is progressing as well. But we don't have it today. On the contrary, by studying the history of man and nature and their relationships, we actually conclude that man, more primitive, had a better harmony with nature. This is a paradox to which still a modern shell of civilization, even theoretically found an answer, and especially a practical one. In fact, what we are doing today, adopting laws, using the achievements of advanced countries and the EU, and certain standards that are prescribed, which is an important direction of our movement, but on the other hand, we cannot remain just at that, to say to the Resavat level, by adopting these standards without opening these essential issues. In fact, the clue to the solution is precisely the relation of these two groups of philosophers and their reflections that I mentioned. So it's pointless to consider nature issues, based on all the basics, their importance and relationships, unless we position a man. But we can't position a man solely by legal and legal regulation, because so far we've had laws, and so far we've had certain standards, they may have been flawed, compared to these new ones that we're bringing, and this is a step and we need to support him, we will support him, but to achieve a serious step. So, the issue of nature protection, as well as the question of water, that is, water relations, as one of the most important resources for people's lives in that nature, must have an understanding of the broader context and the key position of man. But not only in legal regulation, because the legal regulation followed by sanctions has its effectiveness in a certain way, but also, through the entire experience of the scale of the species until proven and proven. So that legal regulation and sanctions should actually apply only to that minority that has not reached cultural and civilizational awareness of responsibility, which stems from its own cultural and ethnic quality, in all relations including nature. Therefore, this issue, apart from the legal dimension, must have its own educational, media, cultural and all others, together on the same side and on the same task. Only then can we expect that what we're doing today is important and quality, and it is a law well prepared and deserved support, but only then can it bring the results we expect. So, another paradox, or example of illustration, which is so harshly real and clear, we today learn beyond philosophy, which is somewhat anachronic to the acute challenges, the very sciences, and philosophy and science, we subscribe to nature, or how it is commonly referred to as a relationship to life or to the quality of life. But the stronger our sciences, the stronger our scientific technological potentials, the less the results are, and that's the question that we have to face, which may not be a major question of the legislative authority, but it is a question of us as thinking beings, and I'm actually trying to experience parliament, and maybe I'm under the influence of academic approach and I admit it, but also what I've been learning and reading at the foundation of Parliament at the time of Rome with Cicero, and other senators, Parliament is not only a place of representation of the people, but a place of thought politics, a place where the strongest political minds through the representative form of thinking political issues, and we have to fight and strive to actually fight our National Assembly, at least in one significant part of their vital work, have the potential and in such a way to look at all themes, including these laws. Here, if we haven't managed to learn, technology, philosophy and other epistemological resources of the human species, let's use it for a relationship of nature, let's look for who we can learn from. We said it was primitive, so-called. Man of the original human community, had a more harmonious relationship with nature, and that's true, but someone will say, okay, but he didn't have an industry, he didn't have the burden we have today, and that's why it's not the same context in which we can observe the relationship of man to nature, because every energy and every grace, it also produces certain advantages, but also certain collateral damages and, in fact, today, what's called the danger factor of nature, is not the intentional relationship of destroying nature, but actually what man at the bottom appears development, technology and development, so, industry and other forms of rejuvenation, construction, products at the expense of nature. It is not bad to use animals themselves in relation to nature, although animals are lower developed beings, without reason and mental ability and creation, but since these far Eastern peoples of animals used to learn martial arts from them and almost all martial arts were created on certain ideas that, taking over from certain animals that had significant abilities or outstanding abilities in battle and is not the only thing that man once again, paradoxically, but can learn from animals. Today, no person produces by-products by nature, no animal produces matter of destruction of the natural environment, paradox, but is very valuable for thinking. No animal produces nylon bags, no animal pollutes water, it does not pollute nature, etc. So it's not bad either, of course, including some other topics that are not current at the moment, such as diet, because today we have the largest number of nutritionist shows on television and on other media, the largest number of eating experts, and the most fat people, in the history of humanity and human species today, we could divide into those extremely thick and extremely thin ones. So those who don't have enough food to eat and those who have excess food and don't know how to lose weight. So human civilization in its paradoxes is kind of naturally divided into these two extremes, and that is why, apart from a few of some species, under special circumstances, we can hardly find an animal that has extra pounds that needs diet and that needs nutritionists, etc. So these are lessons that we need to be helped by the sources of our thinking about finding a solution to harmony with nature. The first principle would be that man is responsible for nature. If a man is a master of nature, that's where all the sources of knowledge and theology and art and philosophy and science agree. Man is a master of nature, but not an unlimited master. To be a master of something legal, then you must show responsibility. You can't master something without having no responsibility. There is no unlimited management. What gives you the legitimacy to rule or rule is responsibility for what you're in charge of. This refers not only to man’s responsibility to nature but also to all other responsibilities. And through human history, wherever one man, one authority, one ruler, one emperor, one emperor, one sultan, whatever he was, showed irresponsibility to what was entrusted to him, he lost it in the end. And that's how it is. And that legality is not going to change. A man to the extent that he shows irresponsibility to nature, he loses it as grace, makes himself a waste of life. The first principle is a responsibility that must be proven by nature. Yes, a man is given the nature to use, but not to destroy it. The use must be selective in accordance with the principle of responsibility and only as necessary and as necessary. So this is how I understand this Law, that this is his intensity, and that's why he has his value, and that's why he needs to be supported. When it comes to implications or expectations of concrete results on this issue, we also have positive expectations because we now have certain or wrong practices which are partly or were a failure to comply with the law or perhaps a lack of quality regulation. The relationship to the woods, and it's not the first time I've talked about this, and I'm not talking about it now by telling me something, so last year, if I were to come to my parents' home village on weekends, on the other hand, there's a beautiful forest called Tupic, a forest that I'm not just going to tell me about childhood, but I think that the horizons of that forest, among other things, with all its heights, its wealth, the steepness once, almost vertical, so maybe they're affecting the formation of my character, not to exaggerate. What I remember when I was a kid, that's when they were so-called. The foresters or the shields, or the protectors of the forest, were so strict that for a single beech, they sent people to prison for a tree, they punished them severely. I remember these conversations and discussions in our village, where they conveyed what these foresters said, and the explanation was that the forest was so steep, it was very dangerous if only at one end, at the foot or another part of the village, there was a goal, that there would actually be a danger that this forest, with its peak, would cross 1,300 – 1,400 meters above sea level to collapse, where a huge disaster could occur, which has its logic. Now based on that argument, for decades, this forest has been guarded from mass cutting, and now it suddenly happens that two years ago it just shows up on dozens of motor sawers that have deafened that space and only began to appear naked in certain parts of that forest. That forest still has the same verticality of the slope. The dangers of erosion are exactly the same. What happened? Citizens protested, called. They're told it's selective, it won't exaggerate, the contracts are signed, it can't go back and forth. What I saw in my eyes, also driving that direction towards Novi Pazar, two years ago, on the right, a complete naked mass cutting appeared, where there was not a single tree left. Also, visiting the part there, the village of Draga, a tutinan municipality towards Rožajam and one section towards Kosovo, on those western slopes of Wekrea Gora, also a massive non-selective cutting of the forest. It's inadmissible and I absolutely won't admit it, I won't accept it, I won't go into the argument that now it's suddenly, abnormally normal. So, I don't have to be an expert on forestry to realize that it's a logical order, it's logical to cut down old trees when there's some suffocation in the woods, etc. It makes sense to me, and it's completely understandable, but that you forests that have hundreds of years of your traditions suddenly make them available to golets, so there are no sciences, techniques, administrations and arguments that will explain it to us. I ask you, that the simple territory of the Serbian state in implementing the law for who knows which time, by different themes, we treat it equally and that there is no less valuable and more valuable territory, because if such messages are sent then they can be understood in another way, that in less valuable territory you can do anything, not just cut the forest, but do something else. So these are very dangerous things from the aspect of the law, ethics and all other aspects are unacceptable. Secondly, the idea is excellent, for example, certain protected areas of nature such as the Special Nature Reserve "Pestersko Polje", which is a decision by the Municipality of Sjenica recently made. But what I want to stress, therefore, by welcoming such ideas, because actually these landscapes like the cave highlands, as well as other mentioned surfaces, are something that represents the jewel of this country and therefore the idea that there are specially protected zones, nature reserves is a great idea. As I said, what I want to point out is that it must also be harmonized or blended into other needs, because if you have a cave high, then on this cave highland cave "The cave field" you declare a special nature reserve, which is great, on the other hand, you have the idea that cave and cave fields and fields are what they are, so the huge potentials of agriculture and livestock. Those two things, I'm not sure if they don't work out together. So we have to give answers to that. Which means that the lobbying for the creation of special zones of protected nature and the needs of agriculture and livestock must be coordinated and cannot just be adopted. On the third hand, you have the same field where the biggest military exercise is taking place in this country, which I'm not sure is going together again, to blow up so many weapons, bombs, I don't know what grenades in that military exercise, of course, understanding the military's need to have their own exercises, but now we're talking about the locality. Will we be able to achieve an effect if we have the same visor, on the same surface of the Special Nature Reserve? So we have agricultural potentials, ambitions and visions with tourism and we have the greatest military exercise. So harmony is needed, as a man needs harmony with nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8294	I would like to thank Vice President of the National Assembly of the Academy of Muamer Zukorlic. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Articles 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the mandated representative of the United Valley Group - SDA Sandzak National MP Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8295	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, is here today on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and the Protection of Nature. Therefore, concern for nature and the environment should be a priority and imperative for the reasons that it is a resource that is of general importance to our society. A healthy environment is the basis for human existence, but also for the healthy development of our entire society. Given that in recent years nature has been significantly threatened by uncontrolled human activity, I think it is necessary to bring the real needs of the population into line with environmental requirements. So to reconcile sustainable development that meets the needs of the present, but of course it takes care that future generations are not challenged by the ability to meet their needs, certainly the need to take care of nature in order to leave our future generations a healthy nature. Serbia is a country that has great natural resources, which must be preserved and improved, and thus regulations in this area. To the general satisfaction of the people of Prepolje, the decades-long problem of the dump has been successfully brought to an end in this municipality, which is actually one big ecological bomb. However, in many dumps across Serbia, sanitary standards are not being met, so harmful and dangerous substances end up in the land, in the air, in the food, the water we drink, and I think this is a question of vital importance and should be approached with great responsibility. I come from a municipality that has a burning problem, which is a waste problem that comes from Montenegro. The waste comes from Montenegro and flows into the lake in Ribaric. This lake belongs to the municipalities of Zubin Potok, Tutin and a certain part of the town of Novi Pazar. Realising this tourist potential and the natural potential and importance of this potential, these three municipalities organise these voluntary actions of cleaning this lake almost every year. However, any more abundant rainfall is depositing waste into this lake. This lake was once truly highly visited because it has beautiful shores. The beach was once the most visited in this area where tourists from all over Serbia came. However, because of these problems that I have mentioned to you this beach has relaxed, and tourists are bypassing this area, which is, of course, a problem and a standard of living, as well as the income of locals in this region. So Lake Gazivod is not just a decoration of Ribarić, not only of our region, but of Serbia as a whole, and I think it is necessary as soon as possible to solve the problem of this lake and set up an eco dam, which will collect this packaging waste. I therefore call on Minister Vujovic to come and visit this pearl of nature as soon as possible, which is indeed a great tourist and natural potential, to explore together and find an adequate solution for this lake, given that it is an interstate problem. What my colleague's previous speaker started, I want to continue. So, in 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation declaring the Cave Field a special nature reserve. Thus, the cave field has also been declared protected areas of first category of international, national and exceptional importance. This cave field is certainly located on the territory of the municipality of Tutin and Sjenica. At more than 3,000 hectares, a special nature reserve was placed under protection to preserve representative and unique features of biodiversity and geodiversity. So it is one of the largest remaining mountain-mounted Tresavian complexes in Serbia and the Balkans, where shelters have found numerous relic, endemic, rare, endangered, national and internationally important flora and fauna species. So this space can be declared a national park because this area meets not only one, but four criteria that are necessary, and hydrological, geomorphological, then natural specificities and the existence of cultural and ethnological phenomena. So, by deciding on the declaration of the Pestar High School and the National Park, which would rely on relevant research on the raritys of the Pestar Higher and endemic animal and plant species, based on which the Serbian Government has adopted the regulation, we would place this area in its rightful place, so on the area that the shoulder alongside the Kopalnik, Frusko Gora, Đerdap and others. What confuses me is certainly the text of the 2015 provision that I mentioned. Therefore, Article 5 of this Regulation makes it clear that the implementation of all works that could disrupt or alter geomorphological, pedological characteristics, which primarily refers to land degradation, pollution and irrational use, therefore, despite a regulation on awareness, on natural specificity, on awareness, on potential, the Government of the Republic of Serbia violates regulations that only adopt and again chooses the Pestar field that is a protected area for carrying out military exercises. So if we're talking about the question of the plant and animal world, then I really need to stress that there are over 110 species of birds in this area. This habitat is very important for birds of white-headed soup, storks and many other species. So, if we exempt the inhumane attitude towards the locals, the locals who were forced to lock all their cattle up for ten days in the summer period, when the season, while in previous years the military exercise was done in the autumn period, was now in summer, in the previous years it lasted two days, it took ten days. So the locals of this area were on the verge of existence. They had to give up all their income, since livestock is the only source of their income. So, one logical question is raised – did you, as a resolution minister, agree that in this area that represents a protected area of use and chemically pollutes air with a number of toxicities from the technique used in carrying out these military exercises? In this way there was also a question of the survival of white-headed soups, whose habitat this is. So, in this bill, a lot of attention is given to tightening the measures, as well as to ban the construction of small HEs in the protected area, which we are certainly ready to welcome. However, if it is an EPS monopoly, it is indeed a major problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8296	The next is MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8297	Dear Vice-President, a respected minister, along with his associates, on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, I can stress that we support the government's position that environmental protection is one of the priorities in the work of this government. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has repeatedly stressed this and be assured that our parliamentary group will always support those laws that mean improving the environment. The government's position on environmental protection is not declared. It was also shown in the budget rebalancing for 2021, when significant resources were first allocated to improve the environment. That's very good, that's significant, because there is no improvement in the situation in this area unless significant funds are allocated. Second, there's a lot about these laws in public. There are laws on nature protection and water protection. I stress, these are changes and additions to these laws. It's not some epochal alterations, it's changes and additions to these laws. And what's this about? All observed irregularities, legal gaps are complemented and these laws also comply with EU directives. So they're not some significant big ones, but they're also small changes that mean improvement very important and very important. I stress this because this Parliament, the focus groups for achieving the goals of sustainable development for environmental protection, are very closely following what the Government is doing in this area and what we are well commending, but be sure that what we think is a bad solution, that we will be very critical. In one debate, we will come up with the best solutions, because we need to protect our nature, which has indeed been devastated in many elements for a long time. You know, we recently passed the Climate Change Act. It's a good and quality law, but it's not going to fix our situation in this area. We are witnessing that, here, we cannot get out, because the temperature is 36 - 37 degrees, and that is because we are a long period of time, not just our country, but all the surrounding countries, the whole world has not paid attention to climate change. He didn't invest. We had uncontrolled environmental pollution, and it came to this point that we lost many species of plants and animals. Some of them have been lost forever, and nature exists precisely because of its diversity and as a country that has a sense of happy circumstances that is located in such a geographical area where there is enough water, enough greenery and wealth and flora and fauna. But she won't survive on her own. Flora and fauna will survive if we keep an eye on each other, not abuse, not arch what we have, but preserve, cherish and adhere to that principle of sustainable development. This nature, this land we have received from our ancestors, we must promote it and leave it to our descendants. This is the principle of sustainable development, and I hope that the Ministry of Environment is exactly sticking to that principle and proposing laws, as well as measures that will respect it. I support the view that great attention must be paid to protected areas. We in Serbia have 7.6% protected areas throughout the territory. I have to say, right now, that's a little bit and not enough. We must give ourselves goals, goals that will be such to increase it. I read somewhere by 2021 that we must have 12% protected areas. I hope that the Government will continue to do so and that we will have this diversity of national parks, monuments of nature, parks of nature, areas of exceptional shapes, therefore, something that will allow us to have healthy development, above all, agriculture, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism. If we have a destroyed nature, believe me, no one will come to our country. What our country is characterized by and what most tourists who come to us say we come because of nature, we come for healthy food, good water, good wine and we can have a good time. In order to keep it, I think we must then insist on that fact that everything we have is being guarded, promoted and developed. There's a lot of talk in public about what's called the so-called Little hydropower plants. Let's open this story once, and it's one correct way to close it. What we're saying is, we have 856 locations for small hydropower plants. You know, it was brought in in 1987. Jaroslav Černi Institute has found the areas where it can be. In 1987 and 2021, much has changed. First of all, there is an increased awareness of environmental protection, awareness of the importance of the stream, rivers and these areas that we have and no one says that all these mini-idro power plants will be built. It's good, only 18 has been built so far, but I think the Ministry of Environmental Protection will have a special sensitivity for protected areas, where construction is normally banned, and where it's being built, it's going to be according to all scientific principles, all environmental principles. You know, if we destroy the flora and fauna in the streams, we don't even have a plant world, we don't even have an animal world, then believe that these minihydroelectric plants, whose potential is 9.4% of the total energy potential, don't mean much. We have other ways, wind parks, we have ways of having solar energy, solar energy, we have, most importantly, what we're going to do is big procedures, energy saving, changes in building protection, windows, etc. You know, mini-idro power plants have now become a political issue. Many movements, groups of citizens suddenly go with the thesis that this is the most significant political issue. You know, protecting the environment for me is really a very important political issue, but it's not a matter of day-to-day policy, it's not a question of one party, it's a question of the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, how to preserve what we have, who offers a better programme, who can do better, let it do better, but we can't deal with these environmental issues in a way that we believe cheap political points are based on it. Something about amendments to the Water Act. You know, water is our most important resource. Serbia is relatively rich and we can be proud of it, but not so rich that we treat water irresponsiblely. We have to protect the water, it's a limited resource. The quality of water is not the same everywhere. In Vojvodina, we have cities that cannot drink water from the water, there are arsenics and other chemical ingredients that are not good for health. But if we know that we are guarding water, believe me, we will also preserve the future of our Serbia. The water law, which I read carefully, gave good solutions. It says that the waters are natural wealth and public property of the Republic of Serbia, I stress public property, and not only water, but water land is also public property. And we all need to know in our country, every citizen of the country, and especially us MPs, members of the government, all those who work in the state, that public property is intact. She needs to be protected. It must be protected except by laws and penalties. Someone here has said that I'm not afraid at all of the dragon's punishments if someone has done that the public well was destroyed or publicly led to the situation that it's gone. That's where the fines that are very large can go and that's how we protect what we have. You know, we don't respect laws. If we go only to the Sava, the Danube, we will see that we are in the coastal area, which is clearly defined by the Water Act, we have the construction of houses, pontons, floating objects, popularly called rafts, coastal construction, rivers and lakes, and even we have the detour of natural streams of water, heating, the creation of some private private lakes. I ask a question, and I hope the Minister will answer that question, do we have enough water inspectors to control it? It can also be controlled by environmental inspectors, but also by sanitary inspectors. Secondly, you know, if someone destroys, pollutes the coastal eco system or water in rivers and lakes, he has to pay because we have an attitude – a pay polluter. You know, something can't be destroyed without someone paying for it. Often, especially now in these dry periods, you hear a certain stream, a river polluted, swimming fish facing your stomach. I haven't read anywhere yet who's to blame for this water pollution, who paid the penalty for destroying the fish fund, but not just the fish fund, but the entire habitat, I haven't read. I'd like it to be. Why? This should be an example, an example of how nature must be preserved, nature must be respected, and those who respect it must have everything that is expected of them. You know, we've built a lot of artificial lakes, or as the law says -- dams with accumulations. I will point out that in beautiful Frustia Gora, we have built nine such lakes, artificial lakes, which serve as watering batteries. Some of those lakes, I must say, have so blended into nature, where they look like natural lakes. I'll take the chance to say, "I'm talking about two lakes." These are Lakes of Bruja and Moharac, located in Erdevik, in the western part of Srema, the western part of Fruska Mountain, especially Lake Bruja. It is a lake that has blended into a natural valley with green forests, fructose forests, a lake with exceptional tourist potential. I ask the question – how is this lake kept? Does anyone take care or should they only care about groups of citizens, volunteers, and there are such groups of citizens? In that place, Erdewik, under the circumstances, I was born here and I am proud to go and I am always present, I see how a group of citizens of Bruja protects that lake, protects the environment, organizes the lake in a voluntary manner, voluntary contributions of citizens. There are individuals who think they can fence the lake, that you can't walk anymore, find barbed wires and that I can't go to the coast and fish anywhere I want, even write private property. It reminds me, you know, ten years ago in America, I was swimming on a public beach, on a lake, and I started swimming, and suddenly I saw private property, and I couldn't go any further. Lakes, water, must be and remain public property, available to all citizens, equally available to all citizens to enjoy, to protect, and individuals who are close can only use that convenience as close as they are, but cannot forbid anyone to walk, to enjoy those lakes. The second lake in Erdewik is the Mohar. It's for watering and it's good, that's why it's done. He's got big blueberry plantations. I ask only one question – do those who use water for water pay for that water? You know, it's one of the other principles, and it's a pay user. And are there rules to the use of that water? Do we draw too much water in these dry times? That's how we threaten the plant and animal world in those lakes. I would like to know, therefore, that compensation that goes to public water companies, how big it is, and that may be one of the next questions when the government is present in this House. I don't expect an answer right now, I know it's complicated, and I'll probably ask that question in advance. I'd like to mention one more thing, and that's the question of the canals in the Ataris. The Vojvodina was wetland, very well you know, it was a blue land, Mary Teresa had dried up, channels, the work of many generations, but the greedy behavior of individuals who simply had these canals pre-arred, planted wheat and corn because of the little use of us it is that we have a situation that when the great waters come that it simply, we have the creation of a bar etc. I also stress this because I think we need to open this issue. No one can channel that's public property buried. The state, the inspectors, must react. They need to get whoever did this to get them back in their original condition and pay the penalty for what he did. Because of the small benefit he's done the state great damage. I stress, and I will always stress that, the task of all of us citizens, MPs, civil servants is to protect public interests, to protect the interests of public property that should be available to all. One question I will also open and that is the question of river applications, gravel and sand. I'm not against the use of gravel and sand, it's good, it's a resource, but it's also worth paying for. Not everyone can deal with it and can't use and get rich, but if they pay a certain fee that has to be real, then we'll have a situation that we'll have to use it in a way that's good. Perhaps a question to the Minister of Thinking. I've been wondering all along -- why are the waters outside the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but at the Ministry of Agriculture? It's natural for me to have them, the water sector, in environmental protection. Maybe that's where I'm wrong. I'd like you to give me an argument as to why not. I'll accept if they're natural and if it goes, if that's the case. I stress, the SDPS parliamentary group will support these amendments and the addition of the law, and we are convinced that their consistent application will contribute to improving the environment. We will also support all proposals for public property to be protected, promoted and left in a better condition for future generations. It is something that you will always have support from the SDPS parliamentary group, but also from the focus group on achieving the sustainable development goals that is very closely monitored and will monitor everything that is happening in this area. So we're going to give incentives, but we're also going to highlight what we think at some point is not good, because this is a topic that won't be in one day, in one month. That's the topic we're going to talk about over the next decade, because there's a lot to do about protecting the environment to leave the future generations a better country than we've received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8298	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8299	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with fellow citizens, today on the agenda are very important changes and complement two very important laws, especially in this time – the Nature Protection Act and the Water Act. Of course, these amendments and additions have arisen as a product of perceived shortcomings in the current application of these laws, compliance with EU rules, especially when it comes to the ecological network which is fully defined by this law, but also to compliance with certain domestic laws, such as the Law on the Plane System of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Inspective Control. When we talk about the Nature Protection Act, however, in my opinion, one of the main reasons for amending and supplementing this law refers to the construction of derivative small hydropower plants in protected areas. Small hydropower plants in Serbia have been publicised, I would say, in the last 20 years, but they have existed in Serbia since the beginning of the last century, since 1901. The first mini power plant was built in Užica on the river Đetinja, and the next one was from 1903 in Vucij on the river Vučjanka near Leskovec. Djordje Stanojevic, otherwise a man responsible for the introduction of the first electrical lighting and the construction of the first hydropower plants in Serbia, and otherwise a great friend of Nikola Tesla, chose exactly the Vučjanka canyon for the construction of this mini power plant that he personally designed and which has been known in Serbia since the beginning of his work in 1903, did not stop working, no mini power plant has done so in Serbia until its revitalisation. If it hadn't been for that revitalization, she'd still be working. So she's over 115 years old. Otherwise, it is also known for its first power line in Serbia from the Vučje mini power plant in the length of 17km to Leskovec. Not to count everything, but to say that we still have mini power plants from 1909 at the Gamzigrad Bane, so Sicevo, etc. As in the public opinion of this derivative mini hydropower known as the current major environmental threat of sustainability in certain areas, it is normal to expect that this law, which is more applied to these changes and additions, is categorized as a law that will try to resolve all these controversial issues that are constantly heard in the public. We of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group believe that these amendments and additions to the Law are good, that, in the application of these laws, the current public objections to these changes and additions will be shown to be exaggerated and unfounded. We will support these bill proposals in the voting day. In fact, this law introduces some new elements and defines in the right way everything seen in the application of the law as a disadvantage in the preservation of the environment. First of all, we have a precautionary principle that acts preventively in order to prevent the threat and degradation of nature, whenever there is a threat of significant damage or a negative impact on the protected natural well-being, i.e. the environment. Then, anyone who wants to build in these areas will have to get prior consent from the Ministry of Environmental Protection Affairs, as well as to obtain an act on the conditions of nature protection for all types of hydropower plants, therefore, no matter where the location is, whether they are in the protected area or not. One of the most important things about building these mini power plants is how to determine a representative biological minimum, i.e. ecologically sustainable flow, i.e. which is a sufficient amount of water that goes into the riverbed that should ensure the survival of flora and fauna. So far, it has been determined on the basis of probability, application of probability, empirical or statistical methods, but without any guarantee that the life of the plant and animal world that depends on that river will continue. From now on, it will be determined only after detailed monitoring of the living world by experts in the field of hydrobiology, hydrometry. Also in this whole story about determining the biological minimum should be included only in the local population because it knows best the river itself and the flora and the fauna around it and within it. We must also note that such a detailed monitoring system has not been completed for a single mini power plant in Serbia, so it is right to ask the question of the representativeness of the adopted values of the biological minimum, i.e. there is no evidence that such a certain flow, i.e. a certain amount of water, provides conditions for the survival of the living world in the river stream. So, with the use of this detailed monitoring, we're building a big dam to protect the environment, i.e. the nature we live with and the nature we live with. The other important thing is so-called. the fish paths necessary for the upstream and downstream migration of the river world. However, they are mostly waterless, covered with application or branching, therefore, completely dysfunctional. In addition, it should be noted that by bringing heavy machinery to build a mini power plant, there are many other environmental consequences. Therefore, these and similar negative influences of this Bill on the Protection of Nature will be eradicated at the outset, and this law defines the interests of the local population. A user's advice is based in order to cooperate with each other on environmental protection and sustainable use of natural values and resources. These are all elements that can give us a kind of certainty that this law will protect our environment and the environment itself. I would point out that the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia found that mini power plants were built on technical documentation and that Katastar mini hydropower plants from 1987 were a documentary basis for locations for their construction, whose analysis found that the data often did not correspond to the real state on the ground and that they should not be strictly applied. We must also say that small hydropower plants are not environmentally acceptable in parts of protected areas regardless of the protection regime, which should be considered as one of the criteria when revising the locations of small hydropower plants and declaring protected areas. That's probably why they're called protected areas. All of these are the elements that give us the right to support, in the day of voting, this bill's proposal, what the Single Serbia Group will do in the day to vote and to do. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Water Act, the aim of this law is to improve existing legal solutions and create legal conditions for its more effective implementation in practice. Also, the aim is to comply with the provisions of other laws, the Law on Inspective Control, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Violations, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Public Property Act. When amendments and additions to the Law are made due to perceived shortcomings, this means that the one applying the law, and seeing the corresponding shortcomings, needs to transfer his experience as urgently as possible with the competent ministry that proposes these changes. In this case, the public water company "Serbia" in its work has seen certain shortcomings in the law in the part of the implementation of the water land lease process in the part that prescribes the lease of water land exclusively through a direct contract, which is now defined by this law. We all know what water represents for both man and planet, and I wouldn't be too long here. In order for this law to function adequately and fully implemented, in addition to the Public-Legal Enterprise and certain institutions of the city of Belgrade, adequate inspection supervision should be carried out, and I would remain there. The activities of water inspection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are carried out by water inspectors in the Department of Water Inspectorate and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Administration and as entrusted tasks of water inspection for the territories of seven administrative districts by water inspectors in the Water Administration, the Department of Water Inspection of the Regional Ministry for Agriculture, Water and Forestry of the AP Vojvodina, and the city of Belgrade is being carried out by water inspectors at the Department of Investigations. When I looked at the report on the work of the Department of Water Investigation, I noticed some perhaps even disturbing things. Namely, the Department of Water Inspection has 21 systematicized and 13 jobs are filled. The number of water inspectors has since 2009 when 34 fell to 13 in 2020. The age structure is also worrying. Of the 13 inspectors, 10 is over 50 years old. The average age is over 50 years. Most of them have been called counselors, and that name only comes after three years of work experience, and here we see that many have been working experience for over 20 years. The salary of a water inspector in this call without past work is between 50 and 70 thousand, and additional duties are given by the provisions of the new law. As the product above, the first logical question can be asked – is this an adequate number of water inspectors who supervise and carry out the measures from their work? Some analyses show that the number of water inspectors required is 67 compared to the current 13. The situation now is that a water inspector is overseeing all tasks related to the taking of certain measures in one administrative district, sometimes on the territory of even two administrative districts. This is the ratio of the number of inspectors to the area on which each of them gravitates mainly goes to the expense of the quality of work and the adequate functioning of the law itself. How the work of water inspectors is part of the work and that measures are being taken to reconstruct existing water objects and perform other works that can affect changes in the water regime because, for example, uncontrollable exploitation of gravel and sand from the river can even lead to the removal of the riverbed itself. One such example is the riverbed of South Moravia, which has been so moved that it has reached the inhabited place itself, and this place is called Grajevac near Leskovec, and the consequences are the burial and destruction of houses that are now factically located along the riverbank and were once away from that coast 50 meters and more. If we talk about the protection of water from pollution and there is a similar situation, and that is also in the description of the job of a free inspector. To confirm, if it weren't for man and his water and river operations, we'd be completely clean, and that's why we have to make every effort to save our waters and our rivers. Another logical question that can be asked is the question of the possibility of corruption, because if we have one man in charge of such a large, surface view, a move with a salary that he mentioned earlier, and he is in charge of monitoring and treating the entities that millions of people are concerned about, of course, having to ask such a question. So, every law that's in place and that's the best public itself i.e. Citizens may consider it not good only if it is not implemented in the way it is written. The full implementation of the law and that it can fully function properly requires all these elements. The JS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8300	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The next is MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8301	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honored Minister with Associates, respected co-workers from the Water Directorate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, will consistently support the adoption of the Water Law in 2010 and, as we supported amendments and additions in 2012, 2016 and 2018, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will also support the proposal to amend and supplement the Water Act, not only because the issue of environmental protection, the protection of the country, water and air represents the central place of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, but because it is a matter of political and social responsibility of our party. Conscious of political responsibilities, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians also stressed in a coalition agreement signed with the Serbian Progressive Party, which aims to improve the standards of environmental protection. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the amendment and supplementation proposal for the same reason we supported all previous ones. The proposed changes and additions, in line with EU directives, move the accent only from water protection to the aspect of environmental protection, adopt a complex integrated approach that implies that, without the protection of land and air, there is no water protection, and that water protection means the protection of land and air. This means that water protection implies control of different sources of pollution, such as municipal waste water, nitrates from agriculture, emissions of dangerous substances from industrial plants, as well as waste disposal leads to land and groundwater pollution. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, more than 6% of the dumps are located less than 500 metres from existing water sources, sometimes in the roots and on the shores. During the rainfalls that are filtered through the mass of deposited waste, harmful matter is dissolved, polluting land and groundwater. These are all reasons why the EU adopted the Water Framework Directive in 2000, popularly referred to as the "European Water Constitution". The key principle of this document is that water is not a commercial product but a legacy to be preserved, protected and treated accordingly. The proposal for changes and additions is trying to achieve a balance, with quality environmental protection, to make economic progress, to achieve social development, while preserving the quality of water flows. The aim of the proposal is also to comply with the provisions of other laws. When it comes to harmonising with the Law on Public Property, it is important for us to have an important part concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and, especially for us, it is an important paper in the Amendment and Supplement proposal, to stop the right to use and to establish the right of public property of the AP Vojvodina on the channel network in the territory of the AP Vojvodina that is not part of the waterways. Finally, on 31 December 2020, the right of public property for the benefit of the AP Vojvodina was entered on a total of 4.203 catastrian parcels, which form an unmanned channel network. Since the Law on Public Property does not contain a provision on who issues confirmation that the canal network is not part of the waterways, it is clear that this certificate is issued by the Leader of Vojvodina. When it comes to consistency at the time of the adoption of the Law on Waters in 2010, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians has also launched a topic -- an extermination fee. We asked for a different calculation methodology to be established, to reduce the burden of contributions for farmers, to be charged per hectare, to establish the highest amount and to comply annually with the inflation rate. Even though not the way we wanted it to be, our pledges did result. The provisions of the Water Act which regulated the disposal fees ceased to apply on 1 January 2019, on the date of the application of the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. The new law established a different methodology for calculating the base of land compensation, as we requested, in hectares, by introducing a range of land-based fees, which are in line with the annual consumer price index. In the case of Backa Topola, the municipality from which I come, for 2019 the amount of compensation was 273 dinars up to 1,656 dinars for the highest quality land. In other municipalities, where land quality is different, fees are up to three times lower. For the Duke Hungarian Union, which has been in the field for nearly 30 years, there is no dilemma. It is clear that the water resources in Serbia are compromised, and since we are active daily in Vojvodina, I will talk more about the state of water flows in the AP Vojvodina. When I say water flows are threatened, I mean waste, municipal and industrial water pollution, water-land construction, municipal dumps, but I also think about using drinking water to water through wells that are drilling deeper than is allowed. On the quality of water, we are talking about three groups of problems. The first group is an inappropriate quality of drinking water, which is especially present in Bačka and Banat. The second is the super-exploitation of groundwater, present in the entire AP Vojvodina. The third is insufficient source protection, present at many springs throughout the country. In our legal system, water or water-dependent areas are governed by a number of laws, almost 30 different laws, and it is important for our parliamentary group to propose changes and complements, especially in light of these three groups of problems, to prevent pollution of surface and underground waters and to ensure the recovery of polluted waters, in order to achieve good status on all surface and underground waters. Experience tells us that the key problem is to control, control and prevent water pollution, control the use of river applications, control the use of groundwater, and control the construction and prevention of illegal construction on waterland. In the report released in October 2020, the European Commission estimated that uncleaned sewage and waste water remains the main source of pollution. It concerns the level of arsenic in drinking water, and data published in July 2020 in the Health Justice Report of the Institute for Public Health Water of Serbia's "Batut" states that the largest number of faulty city water pipelines in Vojvodina. Of the 43 controlled, the correct ones were only 10. Even 21 city waterways in the region had physically, chemically, and microbiologically faulty water. The quality of water is further compromised in cases where wastewater is not resolved, when there is no sewerage network, when permeable septic pits and there is a direct inflow of waste water. The Water Management Strategy on the territory of the Republic of Serbia until 2034 states that nearly 75% of the population of the Republic of Serbia lives in more than 2,000 settlements, that the average association with public sewerage systems is 72% and the septic caves are about 27%. Along with the highest causes of water pollution for drinking in Vojvodina, it is only a spring, because natural characteristics do not make water a good quality, and there is a small number of water-processing factories. In 2010, the United Nations adopted a resolution by which the right to drink water was incorporated into human rights and called on countries and international organisations to help build capacity and exchange technologies to ensure that all people were channelled and healthy, clean, accessible and affordable drinking water. Uncleaned wastewater remains the main source of surface pollution, and thus groundwater. While more than 18% of municipal waste water is being cleaned in the EU, it is less than 10% in Serbia with a large number of households in rural areas that are not even connected to the sewer system. According to an analysis by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of 2019, Serbia lacks 300 new waste water treatment plants, costing between four and five billion euros. Subotica, Sabac and Vrbas are the only three cities with newly built wastewater treatment facilities, which were used by European funds. In Vojvodina, when it comes to wastewater processing, two plants are built with the support of the District government, Bačka Topoli and Mali Ijoš. Often in my address, I mention the problem of the Krinaja River, which, along with Begej and the parts of the DTD channel system, belongs to the most polluted Vojvodina flows, because Krinaja is an example leading to a lack of respect for the standards of environmental protection. For years, professional teams from the University of Novi Sad's Natural Mathematical Faculty have analyzed Kriva, waste water quality and surface water quality and compare them with the values prescribed by regulations and regulations. All results are devastating. Ten days ago, more than 300 kilos of drizzle, the most sensitive species of fish, died in Krinaya two kilometers from the mouth of the river in the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. The death was caused, above all, by an extremely low amount of oxygen in the water, and then by adverse weather conditions, or by an extremely high temperature of water and air. One of the questions I asked the government a few months ago was whether there were funds and funds from which private enterprises projects from the Bačka Topol municipality could be supported through which we would allow solving the problem of the Krinaya River. According to experts, an optimal solution would be to build its own purifiers in any company whose construction would cost millions of euros. The easiest way to reach these funds is through European funds, and our task is to try to get funds from all levels of government, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from the AP and local self-government and to address at least part of the problem. In Bačka Topoli SVM, with the support of the Provincial Government and local self-government, he launched a project to build a central town purifier that is expected to start working as early as this year, and through this purifier about 30% of waste water from the territory of our municipality will be treated. The SVM parliamentary group considers that, of particular importance, the transitional and final provisions of the Amendments and Supplements, which have been prescribed that the AP of Vojvodina would be designated by the competent authority by the water land borders by 31 December 2023. This provision is important because, in practice, water land is often run as construction and agricultural, which allows for its illegal sale, as well as uncontrollable digging of gravel in the coast, which increases the risk of floods. There is no healing of water without healing the country, so SVM specifically argues that in order to prevent bifuse pollution around water flows, for example around the Krinaja River and Lake Palic, a network of belts spread to eight to ten metres of multi-story greenery is set up. One of the priorities of our work is to try together to provide funds from EU funds, from the Republic of Serbia's budget and with the help of local self-government for the Palic Lake self-healing process, drying out the lake during one season to reduce the volume of mud, as well as to end the recovery of space between the city's wasteland of the Alexandrovac Bar and Lake Palic. About 50,000 tonnes of waste on an annual level reaches the Alexandrovačka bar dump, currently representing about three million tonnes of garbage. It is estimated that the remediation of the dump would cost, depending on the way, between five and 21 billion euros, and three proposals for a solution were sent to the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism and Environmental Protection. Nature Park Palic was put under protection as a protected area, and studies several years ago show that the total investment in the recovery of Lake Palic costs about 10m euros. The problem is that the lake is being drained, as agricultural activities are being carried out along the edge of the lake and each year they increase its surface area due to the slopes of part of the land and pollute the lake with various herbicides. Only with the construction of the town's purifier would the problem be mitigated, but the long-term solution would be the recovery of water streams, groundwaters and the construction of a safety belt. We're talking about middle-aged problems, and that's why it's slow, and that's why it's expensive. Since constitutional changes have been under discussion in the work of the SVM parliamentary group at this time in recent months, it is proposed that, when the time comes, the formulation of a new constitutional provision would be considered which, with the provision of Article 74. The constitution that says everyone has the right to a healthy environment, as well as that the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina are responsible for protecting the environment, guaranteed the right to a healthy life in terms of water protection and agricultural land, to define water and agricultural land as constitutional categories. For example, in the way that Slovenia introduced N drinking water law into the highest legal act, and defined water resources as public goods managed by the state. The Constitution states that drinking water sources cannot be the subject of trade. I also remind the SVM parliamentary group in 2015, during a debate on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, advocated that the Constitution regulates the protection of agricultural land in the way Hungary did. Finally, to confirm once again, our parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, as well as the other proposals on the agenda. The draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act will be discussed by colleague Ujhelji, of course, and we support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8302	I thank Mr. Fremond. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8303	The Honorable Chairman, dear Minister Vujovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia, in today's debate, we have two very important laws concerning nature protection and water protection. When I talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nature Protection, which the Government has submitted, we should bear in mind that nature protection covers one of the most important issues of the modern world, and it is particularly one of the most important policy areas at EU level. At the very beginning, I would point out that our PUPS parliamentary group - "Three P" in the voting day will support this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, as well as the second law in this united debate, is the law on changes and additions to the Water Law. In this area, more and more supranational rules are being adopted and more common funds are being allocated for these purposes, and therefore the growing demands of national countries are being made towards insisting on an increasing level of protection of nature and sustainable use of resources. These influences cannot pass our country either, and therefore our country agrees with European legal criteria with these changes and additions. This is why these amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, which are primarily aimed at clarifying some specific issues of the practical application of this law and its effects in practice so far. In the first place, there's a question called the so-called question. a mini power plant. This issue over the past few years, due to the many contradictions, the ruthless scenes that we could see in certain places, came into focus from a wider public and from one, in principle, technical matter, we got a daily policy theme which made it impossible to approach in one objective way. These issues are particularly interesting in some pre-election campaigns where some protectors appear and serve this topic incorrectly. The fact that citizens have the Constitution guaranteeed the right to protect the environment and that the state is obliged to provide it is also the fact that although most ordinary people do not have any expertise in this area, we could logically conclude that in certain cases the construction of these power plants and the accompanying facilities did not respect even the basic rules of the construction profession, nor did we respect the measures to preserve the natural ecosystem in those environments. In this sense, the revolt of citizens in cities that are located directly by such flows, or streams and phrases, although in certain elements it seems inappropriate, is certainly to a large extent justified and realistic, because their daily lives depend on such interventions as are negligible and uninteresting problems for the wider community. But on the other hand, it must be realistic and also accept the fact that we, as a country, have already taken advantage of the hydro potential of the Danube and other larger rivers, that at the same time we have committed ourselves to drastically reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide from thermopower plants, which are also consumed by limited coal resources that are not infinite. This leads us to conclude that in some other way or not, we will be forced to either import electricity from abroad at market prices, or reduce consumption, or eventually start building a nuclear power plant. Since I don't think any of these alternatives are going to come across the approval of citizens, then all we have left to do again is to turn to the development of alternative sources for energy production, which in the end leads us to the fact that the construction of mini power plants apriori can't and must not be rejected as an option, certainly with certain pre-developments that involve the profession. Especially if the information is given in the light of this law, that potential for electricity generation is estimated at 449 megawatts of power, which is half of the installed power at the Gerdap 1 hydropower plant. Therefore, the government has taken the very intention of sending us into the procedure of the proposed amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. It is certainly the most important change to the existing Article 9 of the basic text of the law, where the conditions of nature protection on the basis of which professional documents for the protection of certain natural continents are now much more extensive and more precisely defined, where, for each intervention in natural heritage, there will be a far greater justification for the issue of measures intended to take place to minimise the impact of the change of the natural environment. In Article 35, there is also a very significant change in the ban on the construction of hydropower plants, the water supply of hydropower plants and flood control in the areas of the second and third degree of protection in protected areas, except for the approval of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In accordance with those provisions, Article 38 of this Act provides for administrative solutions on the issue of hydropower plants in these areas to be suspended under official duty, while special permits must be sought for reconstruction of existing ones. I think it's a correct solution for now that won't suddenly give up completely and ignore this kind of energy production, and on the other hand solves some of the problems that apply to these facilities in protected natural areas. What remains for us to learn in the future is that the Ministry and its inspections should pay more attention in these procedures and monitor their realization on the ground more carefully, so that they no longer find themselves in these situations. The addition of Article 68 introduces one positive newspaper, which is the formation of advice from protected area users, which would include representatives of local self-government, tourism organisations, NGOs, hunters' and fishermen's associations, as well as users of forests and agricultural land. I believe that such advice has long been necessary to form a link between the creation of protected goods and the citizens themselves who are life-related to protected space. It is to be hoped that their formation, first of all, will contribute to a better promotion of the value of our natural heritage, but also its better preservation, as it must be noted that in our nature we are constantly facing wild dumps, illegal construction and over-exploitation of forests, which we must deal with. As the minister stressed in the opening statement that even during Tsar Dushan, the protection of nature was taken into account and that Dusan's 1349 code defined excessive cutting of the forest. It was then that they defined that a new tree had to be planted for one cut. Finally, I'd like to refer one question to the Ministry's representatives. Dear Minister, according to official data, our country has a pretty low percentage of areas under different types and levels of protection. This specifically refers to national parks, which we have only five in the whole country, which is less than any neighbouring country. For example, Hungary has 10, Romania 14, Croatia eight, Montenegro five. It has been mentioned from time to time that some other areas should be given national park status. First of all, there was talk of the South House, Beljanica, the Old Mountain, the Deliblat Cave and Golia, but so far we haven't seen any of it realized. You stated in the light of this legislative proposal that we must increase the number of protected areas, so I wonder if any of these or other areas in the perspective are planned to be declared a national park? The second item of today's agenda, which we are conducting today's principled search, is the bill on amendments and additions to the Water Act. This matter naturally continues to protect nature, because water, rivers and lakes are part of our natural environment and are its source. Legal changes in this proposal relate primarily to administrative procedures for the issue of licences, to the exploitation of resources and to water surfaces, where it is predicted that, in the future, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act will always be subsidised in the application of this law, and thus avoid certain administrative procedures under the Water Act being disputed due to a vague appeal to the legal basis. An additional definition of the coastal belt along the channels is also being made, which are expected to be five metres from the edge of the canal. What the public is most interested in is the issue of abortions in Belgrade, I think it was resolved in a correct way. There is the possibility for so far's tenants to enter the lease through a direct contract, but the law also provides that the lowest amount of rent cannot be lower than those prescribed by the government by its decisions. In this way, for those who have already been leased, nothing will essentially change, their acquired rights will be respected, and they will be saved in the time needed if they are constantly called on to carry out leases in public competitions. At the end of several independent members of this law will be ordered to the Republic Geodetic Institute, the Office of the Catastre of immovableity to enroll on all remaining waterways, where this has not already been done, under official duty the right of public property of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. AP Vojvodina for non-airway channels on its territory, which will eventually bring the situation in registers in line with the provisions of the Public Property Act, which stipulates that water streams and water surfaces are located in public property. Dear People's MPs and MPs, since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for their adoption. Also, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions planned to discuss at this session and vote for. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8304	I thank the authorised representative of the PUPS Group "Tri P". The word is from a member of parliament, an authorised representative of the SPS Parliamentary Group, Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8305	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Honorable Minister Dr Vujovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to express my satisfaction, dear Minister, that we often see you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which means that there is much to be done in the legislative activity in the field of environmental protection, so I am pleased. Today, two significant draft laws are on the agenda, and this is from the field of nature and water protection. The Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act regulates the planning, editing, use of space, nature and all natural resources, protected areas and areas of the ecological network made up of plant and animal species. And nature is primarily protected from negative effects and the consequences of human activity, i.e. when nature and natural resources are at the same time the subject of mining agricultural, traffic, tourism, energy, fishing, forestry, water, hunting or other processing activities. Protection is necessary because sustainable development can be defined through the principle that there is no economic freedom and general development of humanity without ecological freedom and sustainability. So it's about inter-conditionality and the necessary harmony between a man's need for better living and more creating and survival of nature that is the condition of life throughout the world. The essence of European green policy, which again forms part of the global Millennium Goals of the United Nations, including sustainable development, is just the establishment of a balance between nature and human action. The establishment of the Natura 2000 programme is one of the important processes in nature protection. The programme stems from two directives, these are the Directive on the conservation of wild habitats and the other concerns the conservation of wild birds. These two directives are being incorporated into our Nature Protection Act by introducing principles of protection and obtaining the most significant instrument – a green tool, but also responsibility for achieving the principles of protection. The wisdom and strength of peoples and individuals will be measured precisely on all the green chains of life support. We MPs group SPS and Green always thought that knives and cakes couldn't be in one hand. Those who want rapid development and rapid access to capital usually do not care much about nature and its preservation. In this, we know that our community of people, I mean Serbia, is not developing biologically in the best way with nature. We are witnessing nearly decades of nature attacks, and according to some data, Serbia is threatening the disappearance of a third of plant and animal species. If Serbia is known to represent one of Europe's richest areas, then it is clear that Serbia is on the ecological map of Europe. According to data, 31 species of plants and animals have disappeared completely in the world in the last year alone. It makes us even more obliged to return to nature as a chance and to keep it even more safe. The biological strength of survival is in return to the future of nature and space. Serbia today has about 7.66% protected area, but frankly with the exception of the natural features Serbia has at each step should act as if every part of our territory is a protected area, because only 7.6% of the area is protected and we face major challenges. Protected areas in the Republic of Serbia represent areas that, according to their ecological, biogeographical and other characteristics, represent natural continents of exceptional importance, with ecosystems and areas of special value in terms of the originality and diversity of vegetation, flora and fauna, representative, geomorphological, geological, hydrological and other phenomena and processes. Cultural historical values have been created in the interaction of man and nature and as such are under the protection of the state. Therefore, the introduction into the precautionary principle law, where there is a threat that significant or irreversible damage can occur for the protected natural well-being, but also a significant negative impact on the conservation or integrity objectives of the ecological network, introduces an obligation to take measures to prevent the threat and degradation of nature in accordance with this law, even when some scientific data are missing. So the principle of environmental precaution requires us to approach nature and its species responsibly. Serbia needs to be seen as a whole, whose every pedal deserves to be in a protected area in which economic growth is harmonised on the principle of the green circulatory economy, without rapprochement of natural raw materials forces and a dignified economic income for all. The economy of protected areas shows and shows that green jobs and green development are possible and in the strictest model of nature protection. If we harm nature by relying on nature, then we can survive. Every violence against nature returns to man through climate change that can ultimately have fatal consequences for the survival of the living world and man on the planet. We need to understand that as soon as possible, and this law protects it from happening. The second amendment of the law refers to the construction of mini power plants in protected areas, especially when it comes to the so-called ‘Hydroelectric power plant’. the minimum hydroelectric power plants to which the water is placed in a pipe and thereby completely alters biodiversity. It is therefore very important that this topic, which is very relevant from the point of view of nature conservation and natural values, especially water, is in this bill and these issues are addressed. It is clear that Serbia's energy system is also important for this type of hydropower production, but at the same time it is important that the mini-electric power plants can no longer work in the protected natural goods of any level of protection. When I say this, I mean first of all our obligation to protect the nature that is reflected through the Natura 2000 programme, which makes Serbia committed to preserving and restoring the plant and animal world. Small hydropower plants are not environmentally acceptable in parts of protected areas, regardless of the protection regime and this is regulated by law, which should be considered as one of the criteria when revising the location of small hydropower plants and declaring protected areas. A review and analysis of the existing small hydropower plant catastra, which was actually done in the 1980s, found that data from the small hydropower plants of the Republic of Serbia often do not correspond to the real situation on the ground and should not be strictly applied in today's conditions without technological and particularly ecological evaluation of the solution and according to optimal use of the available water flow potential. Due to the significant flow of time from the production of these cadastres and the resulting changes in space and hydrology, a prior check of the state of space and hydrology is necessary. These facilities can also be built at other locations, with the consent of the competent ministry regarding the maximum use of the energy potential of water streams and the consent of other ministries and institutions. Serbia is the poorest country in the Balkans when it comes to indigenous surface water, and precisely the ecological and hydrological most valuable words began the implementation of mass construction of mini-electric power plants. The problems encountered by the construction of existing mini power plants require urgent review of authorisation procedures for both planned and built buildings, along with an imperative ban on further construction in protected areas, as this bill regulates, which will be achieved precisely by the measures provided for by this law, and above all by prohibiting the construction of mini power plants in protected areas. Legal certainty will also be made possible for potential investors who have clear and accurate knowledge of where the construction of a mini power plant is prohibited before taking any action. The assessment of the acceptability of certain projects to be implemented in protected areas will be carried out, we believe, with the application of the Ecological Network Programmes "Natura 2000", which includes a strict control mechanism of protection that involves the involvement of the European environmental network and the taking of measures, i.e. the inclusion of the inspection control mechanism within Serbia, and within the framework of the European Environmental Network. It is good that the government will bring three-year plans to protect natural resources, as well as that the law strictly prohibits the use, destruction and take-up of other activities that could endanger strictly protected wild species of plants, animals and mushrooms, including birds and their habitats. The bottom line is that as a safe and conscious nation, which is a national park of Europe, we must be fully responsible for the future of life and the world on the planet. The second law, which we are changing today, is the Water Act and essential changes relate to the management and status of the water area. According to the legal definition, water land is as an area of the waterbed, along the coast, the drain land cannot be sold by law and must be managed carefully and responsibly by law. It is subject to special conditions of use and construction. The law defines that water land is in public property and that it is necessary to be registered in a catastra, as a public property, and it is called water land. We believe that it will be more efficient to access water land registration because this type of public property is better protected and more efficient economic Valorisation. When concrete changes to the Water Act are involved, let me call the proposed changes and additions to the Water Act a kind of green, reinforced water management system and water land as a public resource. That is why I support the solutions that confirm that the country's strengthened cash and determination to resolve these issues. The adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Water Law continues the process of reforming the water sector, which should ensure the successful functioning and development of this sector, as well as the harmonisation of rules in the water sector, with EU regulations. The importance of these changes and the addition is that their Law on Waters is brought into line with the laws, regulations, which were passed after it, thus fulfilling the conditions for better water management, with a view to better water protection, water use and normal water protection. The adoption of this law shall be governed by the availability and management of water land, which is very important in the light of the fact that significant economic activities are being carried out on waterland. It is a good solution that the Ministry of Environment Protection will give consent, in the process of renting water land, in public property, in the protected area and in the area of the ecological network. In accordance with certain conditions of protection of the protected area and environmental network management guidelines, significant and long-awaited compliance with the Nature Protection Act is also expected. In the context of this law, I would refer to the question, the erosion of waterland and the consequence of this phenomenon, whose testimony we have seen in recent years. The fact is that local self-governments, which do not have professional or financial resources, are dealing with the effects of erosion caused by floods, which proved during the catastrophic floods in Serbia, especially in 2014. It should be said that the problem of erosion of lush flows resulting from the erosion of land in the plump and lush floods in the jurisdiction of the state in all developed countries. That's one suggestion. For example, in the U.S., in 1936, they declared land erosion a state enemy number one and formed a powerful state-owned company, a land-and-water conservation service. In the mid-19th century, France formed a powerful state-owned firm to restore mountain-mounted land. Austria has a similar state service. Work on design, anti-erosid work to protect against soil erosion and floods in these countries is funded by the state. It should be said that Serbia had a similar directorate by the end of the 70s and that we had a great success in the control of erosion and floods, and the work was financed by the state. In addition to the Directorate, there were ten specialized companies in all of Serbia that solved the problems of land erosion and prevention and protection against floods. The problem of land erosion and floods is very serious because more than 12,000 noise flows have been registered in Serbia, and every year we have damages from them, as in the last 30 years, minimal attention has been paid to the problem and even less financial resources. In view of all of this, we must not allow the problem of soil erosion and lush flows, the water flows of second order and floods to be left in jurisdiction only by local self-governments who do not have personnel for it, and even less money and these were suggestions, and when last time, in the past, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Water Act was adopted. The idea of reviewing itself is considering a national organisation that will deal with this problem that in one part is due to climate change, deforestation, lack of prevention of our carelessness. That is why we must demonstrate through this legal framework full responsibility to resources without which life on earth will not be possible, which is water, land, air, plant and animal life. These bill proposals are a promotion of current acts and the SPS parliamentary group will vote on these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8306	Thank you. For our children, the MP Marko Pareznović has the power of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vučić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8307	Thank you, esteemed chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us to amend and supplement two laws, the Nature Protection Act, which came to the assembly procedure on a proposal from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as amendments and additions to the Water Act, which came on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I will pay a little more attention to the amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, since the topic of environmental protection is one of the most important topics in our public, but also one of the most frequently abused topics. When we talk about changes and additions to the Nature Protection Act, what is most important for citizens, most simply, after the adoption of the Law on Renewable Sources of Energy, because several months ago and now with these amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, we can say in a clear and unequivocal way that in protected areas there is no longer the construction of a mini power plant. So, in a space of 678 thousand 623 hectares, i.e. 7.68% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently a protected area, it will certainly be even bigger in the future, so there is no construction of a mini power plant of any type, any power, and the procedures that are under official duty will be suspended. In this way, for the first time since 2009, when a Regulation on mini power plants has been adopted, and when no one has even thought about protected areas, we can say that we are putting an end to this topic and that even if so far there may have been some legal misunderstandings or not adequate legal-material solutions, that this will no longer be the case. What's the basic newspaper, this law, is already mentioned is the precautionary principle, which refers to cases where we don't have enough scientific evidence, scientific data. It will no longer be an obstacle to preventing, endangering nature. These amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act are in line with the law on renewable energy sources already mentioned. So it's two different laws that come from two different resors, and they're completely in co-ordination. It is seen here that it is a planned operation, which is very important, because the topic of environmental protection is not only about the rest of the ministry, but it is about, directly, which directly breaks both the rest of the resources and the entire society. For example, when we passed energy laws, a special accent was placed on the so-called so-called ". energy efficiency. Since we know that we have been having a problem in our country for decades with energy losses, and every energy waste resulting in additional energy consumption that is very often not environmentally acceptable or resulting in an increase in electricity production, which re-burns fossil fuel and has, as we know, negative effects on air quality. We see best here how much everything in the field of environmental protection is interlinked and how important it is that there is synchronisation between all the resistors in the government and all the institutions in our country. So we must take care of environmental protection, but we must also take care of something recently mentioned by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, which is our country's energy security. In other words, we have to produce electricity, not only because relying on electricity imports would be very expensive, which is certainly a significant factor, but also because a state that depends on imports of electricity cannot call itself an independent state. Such a state can always be conditioned, blackmailed, harder to fight for its interests. We know well that even a few days without electricity or a problem in the distribution of electricity can cause catastrophic consequences on the country's economy. I say all this because of the growing media campaigns, the very malicious media campaigns, which do not view this topic in a rational way, and so on the case of small hydropower plants, you have entire associations that are funded from the European Union, which are opposed to the construction of small hydroelectric power plants in Serbia, although we know that in the European Union we have 24,000 small hydropower plants, because I guess the less electricity we produce from renewable energy sources, and then we buy that electricity by significantly more unfavourable and expensive conditions than the European Union or someone else. We also have a negative campaign when it comes to wind parks that threaten birds, so a negative campaign against thermal power plants and burning fossil fuels, and at some point the question arises – how are we even going to produce electricity? The need for electricity generation is increasing. We have practically at a level of several years and up to 30% increased demand for electricity and gas, and these are major changes, to which our country must find an adequate response. One of the very important things is today's visit to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Kladov and the announcement of road reconstruction, but not only that, but also the investment in the Djerdap hydropower plant, which over the next 10 years was to produce an additional 50 megawatts of electricity, which is very important for our country, given the challenges we face. From all of this, what is very important is to find this balance between environmental protection and, on the other hand, the preservation of the country's energy security and the economic development that has been at an enviable level in recent years. I think that these amendments and additions to the law are an example of how this balance works, because in our country just as in the European Union, construction of small hydropower plants is allowed in accordance with existing legislation, but is not allowed in protected areas, because it is estimated that this is not Serbia's interest, i.e. potential damage can be greater than benefits. As I have already said, this is a darkness that causes a lot of public attention and what is good, because it is necessary to raise awareness about the importance of environmental protection, but at the same time, it can be very negative, because one number of political actors, different political environmental associations and this topic has recognised, as the possibility of getting certain political points, public recognition in Serbia, and as an opportunity to present themselves as protectors of nature, as if they have a deed to the protection of the environment, and how they care much more about the environment than we do, but what I think is important to everything we say and talk about, but they are much more important works and what we do and what remains behind our work. And if, someone thinks that, for example, For example, the town of Cachak, together with the Ministry and the Serbian Government, has invested nearly two million euros in the re-cultivation of a dump that has spread to eight hectares and was once full of garbage, and today it is a real green oasis, and if someone thinks that the ministry has solved the decades-long problem of the people of Prepolje, in relation to the Stanjevin deposit, if you think it's something that's common, something that's always happened, I have to say it's not. If we had never been able to have such large investments, as we could never think about wastewater treatment plants, and finally stop dropping feces into rivers without purification, our country was never able to think at all about investing hundreds of millions of euros in this area, because that's something that will slowly become reality in a few months, but it would have happened if it hadn't been caused by the Corona virus, but we can say that in a few months' time, the state is going to start major projects and across Serbia, which is about cleaning up waste water. That's what makes a difference. We practically have one non-sensus, today in Serbia, which is that today in Serbia we have never more investment, serious investments in environmental protection, and that, on the other hand, the negative media campaign on this topic is never bigger. For example, you all know what kind of media campaign we've had, for example. The quality of air, given that serious monitoring has been done in our country for the last few years, we can't exactly compare air quality today and 15 years ago. Since our political opponents know this, they hurried this way to say that the situation in Serbia is with air, never worse, to breathe ever worse air, and that it is all SNS' fault. However, if we take a realistic look at the way public facilities in Serbia use heating energy, we can see that we have a drastically smaller boiler room that uses environmentally unacceptable energies, for example the town of Chačak from which I come, we have only one more and that is a public facility, the Machine Traffic School, which uses a boiler room on the mule, all other public facilities have largely moved on to natural gas and use environmentally far more acceptable energy. We also know when it comes to private users, we know that 10.15 years ago, rarely who used natural gas, and then the question is how is it possible that today the quality of air in Serbia is worse than 15 years ago? If that's the case, let's get all these masculine boiler rooms back to coal and lye oil, if that was ideally quality at the time, and today, as someone wants to present it, it's not good. At the beginning of this year, your Ministry called a competition for the replacement of boiler rooms that use environmentally unacceptable energies, which is certainly very good and I hope you will continue with this practice in the next period. What can be a potential problem is that I noticed that, above all, local self-government has a problem with project technical documentation, which is why they can't compete in competitions. I urge everyone to take advantage of the next 6 to 7 months, to remove these shortcomings, or if they have a problem, to address the ministry, and to provide them with professional assistance, in order to welcome the next contest in January, much more ready in February. Also, I would like to commend the competitions involved in shamming, because we know how important this is for our country and for our CO2 emissions. However, here I would like to point out another problem that we have to face, which is the fact that the intensity of the damage, by the man towards the woods, is increasing unfortunately, so we had a situation that in 2019, more than 27 000 cubic metres, illegally cut from state forests, to the greatest extent in eastern and southern Serbia, when we add forest fires that most often become a result of the unconscious human relationship. We had 3,397 cubic metres of forest burned in 2019, which is five times more than in 2018. These are things we have to pay attention to in the future. We generally have to work a lot more on something called an individual's relationship to the protection of the environment, because somehow we're all declared to be ecological and safe, but on the other hand everyone's too expecting from the state to solve all the problems, and somehow they're looking at it on the side, without being aware that this is the area in which each individual has to contribute. There we will need much more energy and education, first of all, of young people, but also of a much more repressive punishment for those who consciously destroy the environment, because everything we do and dumps that we resuscitate and invest large amounts of money, all of which falls into the water, when we look at the state of our resorts and rivers and how much after every major collection, we leave a large amount of garbage in a place where we shouldn't do it. Another topic I would like to comment on, which is very public in the previous months and concerns the potential exploitation of lithium. You all know this is a subject that has caused a lot of public attention. I will not speak now and remind you that Rio Tinto came to Serbia 17 years ago and that in 2004, Jadarit ore was established, but I would like to note that certain political movements advocate the suspension of all geological research in Serbia. It was truly amazing to me, since we know that geology is one of the oldest sciences, that at the time of Neolithics, when the first settlements were created, when they first learned about mineral raw materials and the way they were used, when the first underground mines in South England and Belgium were created, over 5,000 years ago, we today in the XXI century, in 2021, have political movements that advocate to suspend all geological studies in our country. Although none of us here have ever said that at all costs we are committed to exploiting this ore and producing lithium batteries, we have already said -- let's see that study, let's see what are the advantages and disadvantages of all of that, so that on that basis we can come to a certain conclusion and see if that's good for our country. If there's a chance that in our country there's a plant to produce these batteries and if there's a good chance that we have an electric car factory, why would they throw it away blanco and whoever it is in the world, ever throw away any natural wealth without even considering whether it's good for those countries. We have many countries that have been very rich in oil, and if we know that oil exploitation is also harmful to environmental and environmental protection, no country in the world has given it up, but on the contrary, they've all become very rich. As much as all that is happening on this subject is hypocritical, I now want to show you through only one quote, so I'm going to quote one statement by Dragan Gilas from 2017 on the topic of exploitation of Jadarit. He says: “Let’s talk about the concession on these mines, but keep the battery factory with us because they are in all the mobile phones and electric cars. Isn't that a chance for Serbia? It will employ 1,000 and 1,000 people and make a brand of our country. Imagine that in every mobile phone or car where you have a section that says “made in Serbia. ” “ With a lot of enthusiasm, ” says Dragan Gilas. Now I ask the question of what happened in these few years and how something that was a great chance for Serbia is now suddenly becoming a disaster for Serbia, is it not just about hypocrisy, but about one much more dangerous thing, which is that everything that is potentially good for Serbia, the opposition in our country is experiencing as very bad for itself, because it reduces their chance to get back to power and that every time anything good happens, whether we open up a school, a hospital, a highway, to have a whole hysteria on opposition media that is trying to degrade just everything good that happens in our country. I'm afraid this particular topic of environmental protection is very difficult for the expansion of such a campaign and for the fight against the economic growth of our country. I want this opportunity to commend everything the ministry has done in the past year. You are the second or third time here in the Assembly, defending certain legal solutions. You've had a lot of activity, a lot of work done on the ground for just a few months, and I invite you to continue with that kind of work. As I said earlier, whatever we're talking about here, what's only at the end that's measured and what's measurable are the works and the results and that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know in the end, they know that they distinguish the results from the empty stories. I would conclude with the fact that we have to take care of environmental protection, but we also have to take care of our country's economic growth, because if we don't have economic growth, we won't have the money to resuscitate the dumps, or to transfer the station, or to wastewater treatment plants, or to get quality air. So, in order for us to do all that, and it's about huge investments that are measured, hundreds of millions of euros, can even billions of euros in the environment, we have to continue to raise our economy. These are all the reasons why the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – will support this legal solution for our children in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8308	Thank you. Since all the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have used their rights, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8309	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable minister, respected representatives of the Ministry, today we are talking about an important set of laws and before I move on to the very subject of the law and what we are talking about today, the essence of the law, I would like to congratulate Minister Irene Vujovic on the election of the Honorable Citizens of the Municipality of Prepolje, indeed, it is a minimum that the municipality of Prepolje could have done for what you did for the municipality of Prepolje, for all citizens and citizens and during your stay in the territory of the municipality of Prepolje you could have convinced yourself that this gratitude was not only for our children and for the generations to come. What he would recommend to all his colleagues here, citizens and citizens who look at us through small screens is to look at a short film made by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as to how the problem of the non-sanitary dump "Stvanina" was solved. What you would also point out when it comes to your ministry is that you're very committed to field work and that's what's good. So you were also in Prijepolje and that part of Serbia, but I see also in Vojvodina, Kolubar County and so on. This is what we expect from all representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is something that the politics of both the state and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, to be on the ground with the citizens, to see the problem with our eyes, not to get away from the citizens, but to feel that the ministry, that the government is their essential service, and that if we can't solve something at that moment, to set some real deadlines and that they see that the problems are not solved in the cabinets in Belgrade, but that every minister has insight into every citizen's problem. I want to thank you for the project of "floating obstacles" and the rehabilitation and reculation of the land due to the occurrence of gliding, erosion. These are two projects for which your Ministry has allocated money to local self-government in Prepolje. Thank you. These are essential projects, among other things, that's what we're talking about today. If, it is said, the 20th century has been a century of oil fighting, the 20th century will be a battle for water. The nature we have here in our country is a gift from God. So none of us chose where he would be born, we were born in a country that has beautiful natural resources, there are rivers, there are mountains, there are lakes, and that's something we owe to our children and generations to come and save and leave in the amanet. Evidence that awareness is growing on a global scale and that global leaders are aware of what the environment means, is that there are climate change on every forum and agenda. If we look at the campaign of the candidate then, now President of the United States, we'll see that the fight against climate change and the struggle to get the United States back to the Paris Agreement was the top priority of President Beyden. Also, what we're saying today is proof that we're as a state and as a society aware of what water means, what our natural environment means. In the time left, I want to introduce you and your Ministry to some of the challenges we face in Sandzak's space. Tutin municipality in the 20th century has no drinking water, no functional city water. It is something that really is one fact that all of us need to ask what kind of society we live in and give additional effort to solve this problem of these citizens. I'll remind you that there's been one party in power there for over two decades, and she hasn't been able to solve this problem. It's all their fault for some global problems, and they can't solve the drinking water problem of their citizens. Also, I want to highlight the problem of colored rivers. Here, we have this photograph right here. This is the center of the town of Prepolje, the river Mileshevka. We had a similar problem in Novi Pazar, the Raška River. So, because of the irresponsible individuals, we have a situation that we have in the middle of the day this colored river. Of course, no one has ever responded and I want to say this that not all states and ministries can be responsible for us. Has anyone taken any action? It's not. The fields, the New Markets are neither New York nor New Delhi, nor is it, I don't know, Silicon Valley, so that you now have thousands of business entities and that you don't know who the vindictor really is in this mess and disgrace. We've heard here many times that there will be no construction of small hydropower plants. I'm really in the protected area happy about that fact. I want to point out that we had a major challenge ten years ago, when it comes to the construction of medium hydrocenters on the Lim River. I expect, as well as on all matters, one responsible approach to the ministry on this matter. The attitude of citizens must be respected and heard. In voting day, we'll vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8310	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8311	The adoption of amendments and additions to the Water Act has avoided serious public debates and the Archuscan Convention and many legislative frameworks of our legislation have been violated. Why was it done so that there was no serious public debate, that the public was not involved, it remains at the Ministry to explain, but about what some changes look like and what it looks like in the amendments and additions to the Water Protection Act we see that there are some trends, which otherwise exist in the SNS authorities, and about one very mild and over-merciful relationship with foreign investors and those who, investing in our country, are taking profits, and leave us with problems both in the environment and in the problem of working-law relations and everything else. Otherwise, under the authority of SNS 2016, a law was passed which, instead of the general good, declared to be a resource that could be commercially used and thus we came into the opposite process compared to what we are now doing in Slovenia, where in the referendum they achieved that they did not allow their government to define water as consumer goods, but to look at it in general. So, even when we refer to the EU and we look to following their trends, we selectively choose what is worse for our people and for our environment, naturally and each other, and we enter into a situation to support something that neither other peoples who care about their existence in the EU do anymore. Also, the idea of a direct contract that was introduced here on waterland is an idea that excludes transparency and the idea of public competitions, the idea that people can simply be clear about how someone comes to use waterland. This idea with a direct contract, in fact, gives great discretion to the authorities who decide and thus, also, introduces corruption into this area, and it is evident that in the treatment of river applications we have foreseen that it will be possible by direct contract to decide when it is in the interest of projects that are relevant to the Republic of Serbia. Once again, read that there is a foreign investor and its needs and that we are ready to meet again so much that even in one segment of our legislation in relation to environmental protection, and in another segment, which is not the subject of this law, but is all that the legislative authority is doing under the authority of the SNS, which is protecting the working-law status of our people in these corporations. All this is put out of effect and gives great authority to state authorities to come out to meet foreign investors. All of this puts us in a position to remember how mining laws were passed, traffic infrastructure laws. We've had these elements all over the place of one great favored attitude towards those who bring capital to our country, not thinking that capital has its own price. This price is reflected in the working-legal status of our citizens who have been disbursed, and in the long run it is seen in relation to the natural environment and the environment that these laws should protect. So in this sense, we have all the time this duality of a party that has 750,000 members and should therefore be a national party, to protect the interests of normal people, and in fact its peaks, whenever they can, protect the interests of multinational corporations and are ready to meet, as it has been recently, and to banks when they are first threatened by people, citizens who have been robbed and lawyers. Suddenly they appear in SNS people who protect banks, banks that are nowhere in the world known as humanitarian organisations, banks that came here first by destroying our banks that still today have so much property that they can't complete the bankruptcy process, and then some of the banks that presented themselves as foreign banks, and they don't even have any responsibility, or connection with their headquarters. So you're protecting banks, protecting foreign investors, and you're supposed to be a party of this people, and by all that, and by all that, it's just surprising that your members, who don't belong to a ruling and rich layer, allow themselves not to notice how a party that mobilizes most of our people around them economically, is willing to do anything for foreign corporations and to put us in a position to have decades-old consequences of all this. For these reasons and many others, I will not vote for your law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8312	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8313	Thank you. Chairman, I really don't know what the current draft laws have to do with banks and what the previous speaker was talking about? I think he's confused some things. So, the debate on financial arrangements was last week, so I'm asking you as chairman to draw attention to the previous speaker that he probably made a mistake. So last week he was supposed to come talk about it, but, my God, that's his problem. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, whenever we talk about topics such as nature protection, the unforgiving topic is environmental protection and environmental protection, and what is noticeable is that lately there has been an ever-increasing public discourse when it comes to protecting the environment and improving environmental protection, and it can be said freely that this topic has become one of the most dominant issues in the public, against which I have nothing. I can even say that it is kind of close for all of us to work together on finding the best and best solutions to preserve and improve the environment in Serbia. I don't think there's anyone in Serbia who can be against it. However, as I do against the fact that this topic becomes a means of political struggle, it becomes a means of political reckoning, when it is inserted into the daily-political context, and when it serves exclusively, only for attacks on Alexander Vukic, on members of the government, on SNS officials, etc. There's everything. There are various politicians or, rather, politicians hiding behind some organisations. We still have various suspicious organizations that we know about and from whom they are funded and have, of course, and those who sincerely advocate the conservation of the environment, and that should certainly be respected, and these people should be spoken to, and people should be co-operated with and sought out the best ideas that could be applied, but the worst ones who became major environmentalists overnight, the great environmental experts who were in power until yesterday, and as they exercised power in Serbia did not think of doing anything to protect the environment. It is today that they are the loudest and most abused of this topic for daily political purposes and are trying to politically profit from it. It's like if someone wanted to convince us now that Dragan Djilas is a great supporter of environmental protection or a great expert in ecology or Marinika Tepic or Lutovac or any of them. So, all the environmentalists, all the experts to the experts, and everyone over the night became Green. Here, I come from Belgrade, I live here my whole life, and I remember very well the same Dragan Gilas and his relationship to the protection of the environment while he was mayor, especially the trees. You remember, for sure, it wasn't that long ago, I'll only list two cases. The first is the massacre of platan trees that took place in King Alexander's Boulevard in 2010, if I'm not mistaken, here, my colleague Bakarec approves, and he remembers well, therefore, during the ill-known reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, when they damaged Belgrade's city by millions of euros, which is why many were prosecuted and misrepresented by the Gilas team. The massacre of 330 platans took place precisely on the insistence of Dragan Gilas, who strongly and very strongly opposed both the voice of the profession and the numerous demands of citizens, or numerous civil protests that followed because of such a decision. Here, I have a title in front of me from "Blica" of then, so, February 17, 2010, so he says, "We're not giving up cutting the platan in Boulevard. “ So you can’t say for Blic today that someone who supports it, that’s to say that he’s fond of the SNS political option, right? And it wasn't until then. At the time, he openly supported the policy led by Dragan Gilas, so. Now, this “Blic, ” says - Gilas,“ we do not give up cutting the platan in Bulevara. ” So, for nothing, shout the waist. The free voice of the profession, the free numerous civil protests. So, people, if I'm not mistaken, they're tied to the canvass in order to try to defend those payments from Gilas, but it's not worth it, Gilas decided to cut them off and that's it. It's a free profession. The second example, even worse than this first one, dates back to 2005, when the "Great Brother" programme was illegally built on the "Great Brother" project. The then co-owner of the production house behind the Big Brother project, Dragan Gilas, has paved the way for the Kosutnjak, destroyed all the greenery that stood in his way and even the threerd path. Now, these are your great supporters today of the protection of greenery, great supporters, great environmentalists, etc. Let's move on. I'm sure you remember that epochally announced action "Let's Clean Serbia" between 2009 and 2012, in Serbia, when all these were just numbered and spent 25m euros from Serbia's budget for everything else, just not for what was needed. Here, I have an article in front of me. It's a statement from the Public Finance Supervisory Coalition. So, what I'm about to say is none of us in SNS, none of us are saying this. This was signed by the Public Finance Supervisory Coalition. In 2012, the article said: "Twenty-fivem euros cost citizens of Serbia the quasi-environmental action "Let's Clean Serbia" in the period 2009-2012, an action whose effects on environmental protection are insignificant, and public finances have been executed by the Environment Ministry and spatial planning in co-operation with the Environment Fund. “ Watch this, ” he says, “in addition to the purpose of the project’s appropriations, it is largely impossible to determine precisely, of which millions of euros ended up in pointless advertising, non-existent research and promotion of the Ministry of Environment, for example, in 2009, as many as 3,401,000 dinars. “ So more than 35,000 euros per course at the time, it has been squandered only to promote the sign of action. So 35,000 euros were invested only on the brand, only on the logo. This clearly shows that the "Let's Clean Serbia" action was in fact an action to clear Serbia's budget. They successfully cleaned Serbia's budget, and for environmental science, they were not particularly concerned about environmental protection. Now, these are examples of how they treated themselves as they exercised power in Serbia just as those who today are more prominent, to God, environmental defenders and fighters for that. So it is important that Serbian citizens know that it is politics, it is important that they know that it is the ultimate hypocrisy. I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Vujovic, on all the results so far, that when it comes to Potpećko Lake, so when it comes to other environmental projects and I want you to know that in the SNS, you have a partner in the SNS parliamentary group, that we support all your efforts. Of course, we'll vote for this bill. I would have finished my presentation with one sentence that I often use whenever I talk about ecology – the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago, the next best time is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8314	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8315	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, at a time when the environment is increasingly threatened, I can say freely, by the irresponsible behaviour of individuals and one part of large companies, not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the world, it is especially important to think about ways in which we can protect the environment and mitigate the damage that we do directly or indirectly, and thus affect the threat of our own lives. Today we are considering the proposals of two interrelated laws, which are the law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Nature and Waters. I'll look more at the law on changes and additions to the Nature Protection Act. In my later presentation, I'll explain why. The environment ministry conducted a public debate on the draft of this law between 19 March and 7 April this year. Perhaps one of the key reasons for the adoption of this law, which, as we could hear from the predecessors, has caused great public interest in the construction of small hydropower plants and their negative impact on nature. That topic has been followed by justified public pressure and by expressing concerns about how this area will be regulated. In this proposal for a law, it is specified that procedures relating to the construction of small hydropower plants in the protected area are suspended by official duty on the date of entry into force of this law and that those already built and carried out in accordance with the applicable regulations continue to work until the valid permits or contracts expire. Getting ready for this session, it was almost impossible not to notice the different interpretations of Article 35. The bill, which refers precisely to the construction ban in the protected area. This article states that the construction of small hydropower plants can be allowed if projects of national importance and general interest are involved, so the public's reaction in this direction is essentially going towards the fact that it can pose a kind of danger, given that there are no clearly defined criteria for declaring national importance and general interest. However, before any conclusion is reached concerning the issue of the ban on the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas, it should be pointed out that the National Assembly, meanwhile, has passed the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy Sources, so that this draft practically aligns with it. Here, I'll make a parallel. The law on the use of renewable energy sources in Article 5 provides for the prohibition of the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas, exclusively from this position, the Government may, on a proposal from the Ministry of Mining and Energy, with a preliminary opinion from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, allow works and activities, i.e. those projects which are of public or general interest. In addition, I will mention that the current Nature Protection Act, which is prescribed by Article 57, is that the Government can allow the above mentioned works in accordance with the law. Therefore, the remarks relating to the draft of this law, which go in the direction of a permit to build small hydropower plants, are essentially not a newspaper, because they exist as such today in the applicable law that we are now applying. That's why these remarks, I might say, are unacceptable. Environmental movements and citizens' riots in response to air pollution, deforestation, ore exploitation are actually justified until they have a real explanation. As a result of such a rebellion, however, was the new Law on Renewable Energy, which was almost adopted in the Assembly and which is essentially prohibited from building all hydropower plants in the protected area and, therefore, I think that by adopting this law, Serbia actually receives a comprehensive and significant legal act that provides full protection of nature, but also regulates the ways and mechanisms for managing its values. The threat of the environment, the degradation of its beauty and value have, over time, gradually affected the formation of consciousness that it is necessary to take urgent measures, but I can say radical measures to protect it, and the contribution of each of us to its rescue today is imperative. I have to say that against the government's obligations, there is an individual's right, and that is true, but that finding must have two directions. So it is our duty as individuals to contribute to the preservation of nature and the environment, but the question is how. Here, I'll list a few practical ways that we can directly influence the conservation of the environment by our behavior. Let's start by making less waste. I mean the packaging, the purchase of homemade products, I mean buying only the amount of groceries we need, using cotton bags instead of plastic bags. Further, let us classify packaging, although it is an obligation for local self-government to regulate the application, i.e. the primary selection of waste through companies entrusted with the collection and transportation of waste, by providing adequate containers and then for recycling. Until that happens, I believe that nothing prevents us from sorting waste within the limits of our possibilities. Furthermore, we can use water much more rationally than we do today. For millions of years on earth, there is the same amount of water, and it does not increase, but it does not decrease, and it also depends on us and our behavior on what quality these waters will be. And in the end, we're saving energy. Most of the energy we use comes from sources that contribute to the degradation of nature, and that is why it is very important that we use energy more efficiently both heat and electricity, thus reducing costs in our home budget. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the above-mentioned drafts of the law in the day of voting, managing the idea that water, air, energy, space are irreplaceable and non-renewable, and that in the spirit of the parole that we all know is "not difficult to be nice" we in fact encourage the public to think this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8316	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8317	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I didn't say at first that it was planned that, if we could, tomorrow night, we'd end the vote, so we'd work today and tomorrow. The word is Maria Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8318	Thank you. Dear President, a respected minister with associates, you pointed out today in your presentation that Serbia is ready to protect all its natural goods and therefore the environment, and I must commend that Serbia, regardless of its non-EU member, is involved in a project called the European Green Agreement, which represents a common plan for environmental protection, aimed at making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. What awaits us in this year, as regards this European environmental project, is the preparation of the Air Quality Strategy. Over three months, we are again expected to begin the heating season, and this includes the work of small heat and individual bars, where even a million households in Serbia use wood and coal. It's mostly inefficient stoves that don't burn wood to the end. We heard here today some criticism of air quality, but it should be said that the state, a few days ago we saw that in front of the Ministry of Energy Minister Mihajlovic signed with, I believe, 63 of the president of municipalities and mayors, is a subsidy of 3.9m euros, where citizens are allowed to subsidise the state of change and replacements and home bars that do not use coal for heating and for changing thermal insulation, windows, etc. I think there is also a lot of work done by the fact that as many as two and a half million people, or one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia, live in areas where the level of air pollution exceeds the limit values, says it is very important to bring that strategy forward as soon as possible. I know that your ministry, Mrs. Irene, is ready to go into an easy fight at all, and that's a struggle for the environment, which makes it a global world problem. In the last ten years, we have witnessed the effects of climate change and I would also touch the Water Act, perhaps from a slightly different perspective, since I grew up next to West Morava and I am very fond and familiar with that river and I know how cruel it can be. Otherwise, there are 18 local self-governments in the West Morava Basin, and about 800,000 citizens, and these climate changes have been very pronounced here as frequent floods. The damages have been recorded on thousands of residential buildings, thousands of hectares of agricultural areas, dozens of enterprises, bridges, roads and other infrastructure facilities. The state and cities in the West Morava Basin have made great efforts to restore and improve infrastructure protection, but have made one more step. In fact, only a month ago, a special agreement was signed on the co-operation of the cities and municipalities of the West Morava basins. The first joint service is formed, which as a primary goal has preventive activities in reducing the risk of disasters. There is a period to work intensively on strategic documents, as well as training and exercises of civil protection, as well as assessments of disaster damage. The government of the Republic of Serbia, via the Public Investment Management Office, as well as the state administration and local self-government, your Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Emergency Sector, gives great support to all these activities. A few months ago, 600 metres of mobile anti-float systems were purchased, 900 sets of uniforms for members of civil protection, training was provided, and reconstruction of the Ruden facility, which will be the first regional training centre in the Republic of Serbia, is under way. This centre will especially co-operate with the National Academy of Public Administration, all in order to realise the programme and training of local officials. The pictures we had from 2014 and 2015 refer to floods and warn us and ask us to organize ourselves just like this. The city of Kraljevo, from which I come, has as much as 174 second-row waterways and five first-row waterways in its territory. The authority for second-class waters is on local self-government. Unfortunately, modest budgets, large territory, depopulations of time-consuming infrastructure, insufficient awareness of the population are just some of the factors that make us even more vulnerable to climate change. I would primarily touch here if we had to work to raise the awareness of our citizens, because in the 21st century it's inadmissible, and the right word is that it's an ecological genocide, that by the rivers, streams, lakes, they're making dumps and that nobody's responsible for it. I feel like it's getting kind of socially acceptable. If we're already talking about water protection, I think we should start with raising water, not just water, and protecting the environment, the ecological literacy of our citizens, starting with the youngest. And in elementary schools we have an electoral item called "The Guardians of Nature" and it's a good start to the youngest to realize how much it means to breathe clean air and drink healthy water. I think we're one of the few countries that can boast that you can turn away the tap, pour a glass of water, drink and you know it's the right water. We have to protect that, and we have to preserve it. What we are tasked with in the future is the need to find a way to manage water, but also all other natural resources, to make it functional in relation to the needs of the population, and on the other hand to protect the interests of the state. Perhaps the division of rivers to first and second order waters in terms of jurisdiction is not the best solution. The future legislative solution should include the capacities and needs of local communities, as well as the strategic objectives of development plans. One option is to leave local self-governments as a possibility to manage natural resources on their territory, of course, with strict government control. Unfortunately, so far, practice has shown, and we are aware that smaller municipalities have less capacity, so joining local self-government is one logical solution. In addition to solving problems with resource shortages, the association also raises the quality of services. The management of natural resources requires in addition to clear and quality procedures in one part and the possession of specific knowledge and skills and every initiative, and this one for the formation of disaster risk reduction services and civil protection in the West Morava Basin aims to further develop and promote our country and needs and must have the support of every institution and every plan and programme in the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and we have representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, will always support and assist the activities of this service. I think that the state, and I can freely use one term, needs more aggressive access to the protection of drinking water sources, as well as geothermal sources, because unfortunately it is not a rare case in Serbia that hot waters from geothermal sources go directly into the river without using it and such practice has to be interrupted because there is something called basic geological research. These are research done by the state for the needs of spatial planning, construction of some important objects and so on, and they could in the future, based on competitions at the Ministry of Mining, these research to work in one part and for the needs of local self-government and to identify natural resources. These researches are expensive and procedures for the municipalities themselves complicated, but if the state did so on their behalf, it would be much more efficient and feasible. Also, the exploitation rights to the source of drinking water used for the water supply of local communities must be given to municipalities and cities because they do not now have the resources to deal with these topics, so surely the support of both the ministries and the state would mean a great deal to them. It may also be easier for the state to work as it would decentralised the issue and thus strengthen local self-government. I will give an example of the city from which I come, this is Kraljevo, where about 60% of the population is supplied from the water supply system of the Public Communal Company Water. The rest is in rural, or rural areas where water supply is individually, in the form of rural waterways, wells which, unfortunately, are badly managed. An identical, perhaps worse picture is when it comes to waste water or sewers. As with the flood problems that I mentioned at the outset, the need to find the most rational and functional solution is being imposed here. The solutions lie both in practical regulations and in support of municipalities and cities through various projects, as announced by the Prime Minister. Networking local self-government, as an example of where local self-governments have been networked in the valley of West Morava, and greater commitment to these topics is one of the most important challenges and tasks ahead of us. An example of such practice, good practices should serve to track future policies which, above all, need to be sustainable in the function of further development of our society and the state, and all in order to do exactly what we are discussing here today and discussing, which is the protection of the environment which is one of the key guarantees of the healthy generation that are coming to us. Because of this and because of this ministry's commitment to preserve the environment, to preserve the drinking water of JS in the voting day will support both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8319	Thank you. The word is Akosh Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8320	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Arpad Fremond has already stressed in his presentation, our parliamentary group will support the bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act before us, since we believe that nature protection is an extremely important mission to preserve our environment for the next generations. Given that one of the objectives of the bill is to fulfil the obligation towards the international community and to bring domestic legislation into line with EU law, as we heard from the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Elvira Kovac, the question is how the EU sees the protection of the economy and the preservation of environmental protection. Dear People's MPs, the EU's environment policy aims to promote sustainable development and preserve the environment for the current and future generations. The direct benefits of this policy are general: better public health, preserving natural resources, competitive economy, better quality of life. EU policy in nature conservation is based on the principle of preventive action, the principle of wage polluter, the fight against nature distortion at the very source of pollution, joint responsibility between the EU and Member States and the inclusion of nature protection in other EU policies. Investments in infrastructure, as well as the maintenance of the plant require significant investments. A significant part of the cost of reaching EU standards will be financed through EU funds. In the SVM, we believe that through membership negotiations, a sufficiently long transition period should be provided in order to adapt infrastructure and facilities in Serbia to European standards, Serbia will provide high ecological standards, higher quality of air and water, preserving biodiversity and integrated waste management. By investing in nature protection, Serbia will also improve its position as a tourist destination, which will contribute to the development of tourism. One of the reasons for the proposed changes refers to the ban on construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas. In the Republic of Serbia, around 10.40% of energy potential is in waterways where small hydropower plants can be built. The estimates are based on a 1987 small hydropower plant cataster describing 856 locations for construction of small hydropower plants. In addition to these 856 locations located in Serbia, according to a small hydropower plant disaster in Vojvodina, there are 13 potential locations suitable for capacity building. It is important to note that small hydropower plants are not environmentally acceptable in parts of protected areas, regardless of the protection regime, which should be considered as one of the criteria when revising the locations of small hydropower plants and declaring protected areas. Given the recent adoption of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, a ban on construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas in these changes results in compliance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The territory of the Republic of Serbia covers 7.67% of protected areas and as such belongs to one of the most significant centres of biodiversity in Europe with a number of specific eco-systems. With the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, the area of protected areas planned for protection by 2015 is about 10% and by 2021 around 12%. Nature protection in the Republic of Serbia has been improved by the Nature Protection Act, which has been agreed with ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, as well as EU Nature Protection Directives. When we talk about nature protection, we must not forget the public enterprises that depend on operational law enforcement. First of all, I am referring to JP “Vojvodina forest” which, in addition to performing basic activities such as forestry, hunting and fishing, also deals with the management of protected areas. The public enterprise "Vojvodina Forests" is the largest manager of protected areas in Vojvodina, one of the largest in Serbia. The company manages just over 70,000 hectares within a larger number of protected areas. The company manages with a total of 16 protected areas, five special nature reserves, two natural monuments, seven strictly natural reserves and two natural monuments. When we talk about protected areas that are within the company's jurisdiction, we are mostly talking about special nature reserves known to the general public, such as the Deliblate Pedestrian, Obedska Bar, Gornja subnavlje, Koviljsko-Petervaradinski rit and Bagremar. The four largest special nature reserves are protected areas of the first category, i.e. by a government act, and can be considered to be of national interest. These protected areas are also marked internationally and recognised as internationally significant areas. All thus have the status of internationally important areas for birds, internationally important areas for plants and areas of importance for butterflies. These four reserves are also areas that have international status towards the Ramsar conversion. What can be praised by the public company as the manager of all these protected areas is the regular implementation of the active protection measures it has held at a certain level for ten years. This is primarily important if we underline two facts, which are that nature protection costs and requires financial investment, otherwise we will lose some of the basic natural values, especially in the age of the observed effects of climate change. In order to manage protected areas, symbolic budgets have been allocated so far. For example, for the last ten years, the total annual costs of the public enterprise have been allocated from the republic and the province budget. In general, 85% of all costs in protected areas are financed only by the company, while only 15% of funding for protected areas comes from other sources. The SVM parliamentary group is the position that in the coming period we must allocate more funds for this purpose from the budget, and all in order to achieve a better conservation of nature. We believe that it is extremely important and education and an increase in citizens' awareness, because with small changes and joint action we can achieve very good results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8321	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8322	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out at the beginning of my presentation as one of the Coordinators of the Green Parliament Group on Ecology and Environmental Protection, that I am very pleased with what I heard in the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia at the Chinese Global Eco Forum Guyang 2021. Namely, this eco forum has been organised since 2009, and is the only high-level forum on environmental protection and environmental protection organised in China. In fact, the Prime Minister said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is turning towards protecting the environment and environmental sustainability and that there will be greater investment and financing in the preservation of the environment and the circulatory economy in the coming years. It also pointed out that the Republic of Serbia is the only one in the region that has made the road map for a circular economy with the main goal of having a quality life in the climate-resistant environment for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's nature is characterized by the high diversity of the plant and animal world and represents a significant part of the wealth and diversity of Europe's natural heritage. Its most representative, most preserved parts are placed under legal protection. The origins of the legal protection of nature in Serbia range far into the past, and the first regulations to protect and protect nature, preserve natural resources, dating back to the 14th century. The first area protected in Serbia's territory today was the Obedska Bar, placed under protection in 1874. The area of protected areas in Serbia currently stands at 7.66% of Serbia's territory and as such belongs to one of the most significant biodiversity centres in Europe with a number of ecosystem specificities. The Republic of Serbia owns a rich genofite, a geneofond of wild and farmed plant and animal species and variants that represent irreplaceable resources for the development of many economic branches, primarily agriculture, forestry, fisheries, tourism and others. With the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, the area of protected areas planned for protection by 2021 is about 12%. From these data, I conclude that as our ancestors in the distant past have thought about protecting nature, so we too are obliged to leave our descendants in an amannet preserved and protected nature and its good things to grow in a healthy environment. Nature protection is a series of measures and activities aimed at protecting natural ecosystems to the greatest extent possible against the most frequently negative impact of human action caused by social development. A person’s activities knowingly or unconsciously alters the natural environment by disrupting the natural environment. On the other hand, we must be aware of the fact that nature, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the whole world, is under great pressure from various factors that threaten and many biological species in a smaller or larger degree on the threshold of extinction or some have already disappeared. Nature protection in the Republic of Serbia is governed by the Nature Protection Act that regulates nature conservation, biological, geological and landscape diversity as part of the environment. National parks, reserves, monuments of nature, areas of exceptional qualities and nature parks are a preserved part of the nature of special natural values that make them permanent ecological, scientific, cultural, educational and health-recreative. The reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Nature Protection Act are above all the need to address certain shortcomings identified in the current application of the applicable law, then the obligation to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Planning System of the Republic of Serbia, as well as compliance with the Law and inspection supervision. It is also important to note the process of establishing the ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the ecological network of the European Union – Natura 2000, which defines the conservation of natural habitats and wild plant and animal species and the conservation of wild birds. Another, in my opinion, perhaps the most important reason for the proposed changes, refers to the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas. Given that we recently adopted the Law on Renewable Energy, which prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas, these changes achieve compliance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. In Serbia, around 10.4% of total energy potential is located in areas where hydropower plants can be built. Data from small hydropower plants from 1987 often do not correspond to the real situation on the ground and should not be strictly applied in today's conditions without technological and especially ecological evaluation of solutions and according to optimal use of available water flow potential. Small hydropower plants are not environmentally acceptable in parts of protected areas regardless of the protection regime, which should be taken into account as one of the criteria when revising small hydroelectric locations in declared protected areas. Many experts note that the symbolic benefit of small hydropower plants is for the energy sector, but that is why it is a huge ecological damage to the environment. This proposal defines a biological minimum, i.e. an ecologically sustainable flow that should ensure the survival of water ecosystems. A detailed monitoring of these ecosystems prior to the production of the project documentation has not been carried out for any small hydropower plant in the Republic of Serbia. These amendments and additions to the law are one word prescribed jurisdiction and procedures in the process of construction of small hydropower plants, the issue of water conditions, consent and permits. The proposed changes and additions clearly define that the construction of small hydropower plants is prohibited in the first regime of protection, i.e. in the second and third protection regimes, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the power to prescribe closer protection, procedures and means of determining them, as well as facilities, works and activities that are prohibited or restricted. The area of sustainable use of protected areas is regulated by other law in the jurisdiction of several ministries. These are agriculture, forestry, water, energy, construction and transport, mining and energy. In this way, the most valuable parts of the Republic of Serbia are protected in order to preserve the natural activities already in place in certain areas, which is also a system of sustainable development, i.e. the coherence of economic and social development on the one hand and the protection of nature on the other. It follows from all above that the concept of building small hydropower plants disrupts and threatens the system of environmental protection, the preservation of biodiversity and the stability of the ecosystems of mountainous and mountainous areas. The problems encountered by the construction of the same ones, according to the public's demands, require an urgent review of the acts issued, as well as procedures aimed at the construction of small hydropower plants, a ban on the construction of new ones, and even a ban on the work of the existing ones. In particular, I would stress the need to more urgently prohibit the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas of the Republic of Serbia, as this violates both the environment of the protected area and the traditional way of life of the local population. It should also take into account the negative impact of economic activities on the overall state of biodiversity, ecologically significant habitats, natural rarity, as well as endangered species and the area of protected areas. We must be aware of the fact that nature protection can only be achieved with multi-sectoral co-operation in this area and the integration of sectoral development policy. The construction of an effective system of management of protected areas will ensure that what is protected is both preserved or cured in a real and sustainable way in the public interest, as well as for the welfare of people living in protected areas and operators of economic development. Nature conservation encourages other activities, such as recreation, tourism, scientific and educational activities, economic strengthening of local communities through traditional production and services, and should also apply other renewable energy sources that have a less harmful environmental impact. Education and awareness raising in younger generations about the importance of overall environmental protection is very important for the preservation of natural resources. If we do not today protect the environment of the future of new generations and those who are just coming, they will be questioned. A healthy environment is the basis for the preservation of human existence, for the healthy development of society and for the important factor for the quality and healthy life of the population. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will vote for the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8323	Thank you. The word is Ilija Živocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8324	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, today, in the context of a joint search on the agenda, is also a proposal to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act, which I would like to focus specifically on in my presentation. If at the end of this extraordinary session we adopt the proposed changes and additions, we will raise the Nature Protection Act to several scales of the best, in terms of seriousness, applicability and efficiency, thus directly improving nature protection. I will remind you of the minister's words that Serbia has an extremely long tradition of protecting the environment and nature. Namely, the protection of nature is referred to as the 14th century in the Soul Code, in Article 123, which deals with the prohibition of the forest, as well as the predicting that a new tree should be planted for each tree cut. Today, when the Republic of Serbia has as many as five beautiful national parks, Đerdap, Fruska Gora, Sar Mountain, Kopalnik and Tara, when an increasing number of tourists are coming to visit the untouched nature of the Obedic Bar, which has been under the protection of the country since 1874, when more and more tourists come to the river Uvac, when food products from Peshter and Sjenica conquer the world market, both because of their quality and controlled origin, on the one hand, and because of an increase in the level of general pollution, they cut the forest. On the other hand, we can conclude that the amendments to the laws, whose original text has been in force for almost two decades, have at the right moment been found before us, by the MPs. To add that the national parks of Tara, Đerdap and Sar Mountains, along the Deliblat Cave, are already on the international list and that several localities are waiting for registration, only the wealth of flora and fauna in the Republic of Serbia is seen in 2,633 wild species covered by the Regulation on the declaration and protection of strictly protected and protected wild species of animals, plants and mushrooms, which, in the right sense, represents the wealth of a country, specifically our Serbia. All mentioned, with the fact that Serbia, apart from five national parks, has as many as 471 protected areas, 18 nature parks, 21 landscapes of exceptional features, 70 nature reserves, six protected habitats and 315 monuments of nature, our country makes it extremely rich and unique in terms of natural beauty. When we talk about the very changes to the law, certainly the most significant newspaper in the law refers to the suspension of the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas. It makes the state what it is, what its role is, and it is the greatest nature protector in Serbia. We also make a clear distinction between today's responsible political majority and the former regime during Dragan Gilas, whose time was more ecological incidents and attacks on the nature of himself and his followers, such as the platana massacre, that beautiful symbol of the Belgrade boulevard or the construction of the Big Brother's house in the middle of the Kosutnjak park in Belgrade, which my colleague Markovic spoke of in more detail. Also, when we talk about amendments to the Law itself, I am extremely pleased that you have introduced the precautionary principle, Article 5. The law, which, as a legislator of the law, right at the very beginning shows a clear and unequivocal intention of the state to further protect natural potentials. I also believe that an excellent change in Article 38, where an extremely precise and exhaustive network is defined as a coherent, functional and spatially connected continent, which is established to preserve habitat types of particular importance for protection, for restoring and/or improving endangered habitats of wild species, flora and fauna, which make up ecologically significant areas and ecological corridors. I would also commend myself on a solution from Article 16 of the amendment and supplement, which introduces into the text the new article 68a, which we have not had so far, which provides for the possibility to educate the advice of users of protected areas. This is an extremely important paper, because the bill promoter predicts that all relevant local actors participate in the work of the council. So besides the local community represented by local self-government representatives, local hunters, fishermen, representatives of tourism organisations, NGOs and all those concerned with nature protection can participate. In this way, I find it extremely good and useful, a local opinion will be heard, only the ministry will receive timely and quality information based on which decisions will be made faster and faster, which I believe will be more quality. Also, this is a significant kind of decentralisation. There is a significant change in article 108. The law, which provides for financial incentives from the republican budget for protected areas, will, in the perspective, greatly facilitate the position of individual local self-governments in whose territories these areas are, but I believe that you will at the same time exercise additional control and introduce the responsibility of these local self-governments to preserve exactly these locations for which they receive funds, as well as to try to revive a tourist offer where possible, of course, without negative consequences for the plant and animal world. At the end of the exposure, I'll finish it. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law will help not only to keep our economy as it is, but to make its protection extremely advanced, which I think is also the goal of your ministry and these changes and additions, as well as to avoid all events and prevent all activities, particularly ourselves, of Serbia's citizens, who can do harm. I call on my fellow Members to support the proposed law and the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Nature Protection Act in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8325	Thank you. The word is Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8326	Thank you, Chairman. I would not repeat myself, the minister has already explained all amendments and additions to the law. I would refer first of all to today's biggest problem, but also to the one humanity is going to fight for the next years, and it's about to run out of water. We know that water by volume is the most widespread in the existential sense and the most important natural resource, because water is the cradle of life. At the same time, water represents raw materials and habitats, foods and a means of working, as well as energy. It is therefore necessary to ensure sustainable water use, based on the long-term protection of available water resources, without jeopardising the sustainability of vital ecosystems. Water land and water facilities in public property are well of general interest and deserve special protection as such. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the Republic is regulating and providing a system for protecting and improving the environment. This law that I'm going to talk about today regulates exactly water, as one of the most important elements of the environment, i.e. water land, as well as of general interest. We cannot deny the exceptional role of rivers in the process of economic development. It is known that in the world, especially in developed countries, it is particularly important that the organisation of the water industry in all Member States of the European Union should simply be implemented according to a unique concept. Given that our country is proposing for full membership in the European Union, it simply needs to be adapted and able to fully implement the European Water Management Directive. Water has become a strategic raw material, and in the future, one of the world's most difficult problems will be the lack of water. It is important to point out that the whole world is fighting, and the United Nations warns that by 2050, as many as 5.7 billion people could live in areas where there is not enough water. Therefore, we in Serbia must not lose the battle to preserve our rivers, lakes and streams. The adoption of this law is to specify and supplement certain provisions of the Water Act, to address the problems identified in the application of the law itself, to improve existing legal solutions and to create legal conditions for its more effective implementation. This law achieves compliance with the provisions of other laws, such as the Law on Inspectives, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and the Law on Infringements, as well as the Law on Public Property. Not only will the adoption of this law contribute to the improvement and preservation of our rivers, but we must work on it ourselves, because, as a whole, the quality of water in our rivers is not satisfactory and we must not allow further deterioration. The biggest problem is also the largest river flows of the Danube River, Sava, Tis, West Morava, which fall into the third and fourth classes of water pollution. Therefore, we must not allow our rivers to become dumps of various waste, that haughtiness, selfishness and shortsightedness succeed in destroying the ecosystem of Serbian rivers. Economic life has always relied on resources from nature to a lesser or greater extent. During his history, man referred differently to natural riches, living in the belief that nature gave him an inexhaustible wealth. By introducing a measure of water protection, we will seriously approach the problem, and besides, we must all contribute to raising awareness, so that tomorrow we do not pay a great price. We are witnessing that the Serbs on the banks of the river, scarred, have built up trackways, and it is very important to highlight the consequences of overexploitation of gravel and sand. Because of the uncontrollable exploitation of the sand, the entire banks of our rivers have been changed, and the excavations affect the damage to the embankment, which poses a great danger to floods. Let's just remind ourselves of 2014 and the disaster that took place in Obrenovac. However, we must not ignore that the sand after water is the most used resource and demand for this resource so great that all these black markets that destroy our ecosystems lead to soil erosion and increase the risk of natural disasters, storms and the like. I can't help but look at the fact that the area along the entire West Morava River is threatened as the habitat of wild animals, most birds, due to overexploitation of gravel. The State allowed the Water Law and showed confidence in those who exploit this wealth that belongs to all of us, without doubting that they will also abuse in an unwitting way the state of our rivers and coasts. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group will support these amendments and amendments to the laws, because we simply must not allow only roads and concrete in the near future, then the wastewater collector, that there are no more fish, no more birds, and that only dead water streams, or waste water, flow through our rivers. The amendments to the Law on Waters that we are fed are precisely governing a more responsible relationship and the use of the coasts of our rivers, which is becoming public good, with clearly defined conditions of use. Nature has made every effort to give a great deal of things, which is necessary for a decent life on this planet, it has given us and our sense of reason to use it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8327	Thank you. The word is Neven Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8328	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two important draft laws, a bill on amendments to the Nature Protection Act and a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Water Act. The reason for the proposed amendments to the law is certainly to remove certain problems and shortcomings that have been seen in the current application of the law. One of the most important processes in nature protection is the process of establishing the ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposed amendments to the provisions of the law are more detailed and defined. Also, one of the reasons for the proposed changes also refers to the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas, as well as the competences and procedures in the process of construction of small hydro power plants, the issue of water conditions, consent and permits. In the Republic of Serbia, around 10.4% of the total energy potential is located in water streams where small hydropower plants can be built. Since the recently adopted Law on Renewable Energy prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas, as one of the types of renewable energy sources, these changes achieve compliance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The Nature Protection Act is certainly of great importance, since preserving the nature of biological-geological diversity is very important for our country, as part of the environment. The law agreed with ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, as well as the EU Nature Protection Directive. The territory of the Republic of Serbia covers 7.67% of protected areas and as such belongs to one of the most significant biodiversity centres in Europe with a number of specific ecosystems. We are aware of the fact that nature in the world, but also in our country, is under great pressure from various factors of endangerment. Many species are more or less threatened, are on the verge of extinction or are even lost forever. Our environment suffers serious consequences, and continued and intensive work is necessary to regulate and ensure the system of protection and promotion of the environment. The preservation of the environment is just one of the priorities of a stable and progressive policy led by President Aleksandra Vukic. When we talk about environmental protection, I must, as an example of good practice, cite the city of Sombor, which has taken pioneering steps in the area of environmental protection. The town of Sombor became the first city in Serbia to build a recycling centre with a daily capacity of nine tonnes, with the support of the Environment Protection Fund, with separation, classification of different types of waste and its packaging. In addition to Nis, Sombor was the only city in Serbia that has provided for the installation of 150 dedicated containers in both the city, the catering facilities and suburban settlements and other settlements in the territory of the town of Sombor. The city's involvement to improve and preserve the environment has also been recognised by the competent ministry, which has defined 45 million dinars in this year's competition to finance the development of a technical documentation project to build a regional waste management centre in Somboro. The city is constantly working to remove wild dumps on state agricultural land as well as to obtain large waste containers that will be placed in all inhabited areas. The town of Sombor, in the current year, together with the province's secretariat for agriculture, water and forestry, is co-financed by the work on revitalising the Vrbas-Nosdan channel. These works are actually one continuity with the work done over the past few years when it was reconstructed about 35 kilometers of canals. What I would also particularly point out is that greenery is one of the most recognizable symbols of the city of Somboro. Unfortunately, greenery recovery has not been done in the city for decades, but after arriving at the SNS authorities, a serious approach has been made to the urban greening process. Today, some 18,000 trees are being led into the city’s greening cataster, some seven and a half thousand of which are bojos. Since a significant number of these trees have already entered the second century of their lives somewhere, the city's trees would have been refurbished planically to young Bojosha. Many Somborian streets were turned into long green tunnels, and the city finally got its micro-climate. During the autumn of last year, a systematic renewal of the Sombor greenery and the riching of the city's green fund was established, which was certainly continued during this year during the spring planting season, and during that time more than three thousand 800 different species of trees were planted, from bojš, Javor, acacia, lip and willow trees. A completely new woodwork has been renovated and formed in numerous Sombor streets, parks, playgrounds, stadiums. Protecting the nature of the environment is a process that has been seriously approached thanks to the sound and responsible policy led by SNS with President Aleksandar Vukic. It is important that this process lasts continuously and that we all make efforts and change our relationship to the environment in our own backyard and that we fill it in and enrich it over time with various activities, resulting in a cleaner environment, healthier and richer and more satisfying society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8329	Thank you. The word is a Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8330	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to say something after so many discussions without repeating myself. I will try to point out once again the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support these two legislative proposals in the voting day, and this has been discussed by colleagues and authorised representatives and colleagues from the parliamentary group before me. So, first of all, the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act are multiple, and all are in the function of improving the buried framework that treats one of the most significant, I would say, sectors, and that is nature protection. From the need to comply with domestic relevant regulations to the need to comply with EU legal assets. Essentially, the amendments to the law relate to one of the most important processes in nature protection, which is the process of establishing an ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, or an EU ecological network, called "Natura 2000", which is defined in accordance with the requirements of two EU directives. So the task of humanity, I would say, first of all, is to preserve at a global level nature that is the source of life in every sense of the word. In this respect, the fundamental objective is an integrated and mutually conditional approach to the development of human community and nature. In view of the fact that man is the main actor of global climate change, then man has a great responsibility for the preservation of nature, diversity of plant and animal species of birds, mushrooms and many other things. An integrated approach to nature protection involves protecting biodiversity, protecting water, protecting air and protecting land, as necessary conditions for life on the planet. One of the UN's Millennium Goals is just sustainable development, which is the harmony of human action of nature. And what about sustainable development? He could define himself with one sentence to survive both humans and nature on our planet. When it comes to nature protection in Serbia, it has a significant history, and on the 20th century, it has established new standards of protection for Serbia as a result of intensive and often uncontrollable exploitation, unfortunately, of natural resources. In this campaign of men on nature, for the sake of a better life, but also for the acquisition of capital, unfortunately, many plant and animal species, changed relief, disappeared forests, water streams disappeared. Climate change, which is mostly due to this aggressive human relationship to nature, has just conditioned changes in nature, above all, in a living world that represents one life chain. It's true that nature itself adapts to climate change, but that's not enough for itself to survive. A man must return to nature at least part of what he takes from her daily. Hence, both the UN and the EU have programmes to protect and improve the devastated areas, in order to reduce the consequences of the negative impact of human activity on nature. Serbia is a valuable green oasis, I would say to Europe, according to some research that has already been discussed, there are as much as 70% of all plant and animal species in Serbia and the rest of the living world present on the European continent. It's a huge fortune and it needs to be pointed out in particular. We could say that Serbia is a botany garden in some way in Europe. That is why European legislation is important for us to do much more than we would have to do ourselves to protect the living world of Serbia. This is our commitment arising from our European path, namely from the EU's full membership bid. The amendments to the Nature Protection Act establish mechanisms and protection measures that need to be set up to create an ecological network of Serbia, a prerequisite for our integration into the European ecological network Natura 2000, the conditions required by this programme are very strict, which will in some way increase our own responsibility towards natural values, which we often view only unfortunately as a resource. We need to be aware of the fact that nature in the world, but also in our country under great pressure from different factors of endangerment and many biological species are more or less threatened, some are on the verge of disappearing or are even, unfortunately, forever lost. A little while ago, a colleague pointed out one piece of information, that's correct. The territory of the Republic of Serbia covers 7.67% of protected areas and as such belongs to one of the most significant centres of biodiversity in Europe, with a number of specific ecosystems. The Republic of Serbia has a rich genofond of wild and farmed plant and animal species and variety, which represent irreplaceable resources for the development of many industries, above all agriculture, and forestry, fisheries, tourism and many others. As the most well-preserved and most precious objects of nature and significant centres of biodiversity, protected areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are protected and in accordance with national legislation and international contracts. These are national parks, reserves, monuments of nature, areas of exceptional qualities and nature parks are a preserved part of nature, special natural values and landscapes, which have a lasting ecological but also scientific cultural and educational and health, precisely recreational importance. Their protection is unconditional and therefore the introduction into the law of the precautionary principle, as a form of preventing the threat and degradation of nature, is of great importance. Another newspaper, which in our opinion is very important, and very current, is the construction of mini power plants in protected areas, which are prohibited by this law. This will prevent devasting of natural values and bad influences and poor changes in unprotected areas, which we have an obligation to protect by model – the ecological network Natura 2000. Here it is particularly referring to deviating power plants, whose water streams are channeled into pipes which could have had a drastic effect on changes in local eco systems. This law addresses the problem of which the public was also upset and definitely solves what the SPS parliamentary group is, and supports and welcomes. When it comes to the law on changes and additions to the Water Act, I would say that solutions represent a more responsible attitude towards water areas, and their use as public property, it is very important that the water area that covers both water and coastal water use is also used to protect the environment, but also with a good practice of doing all the activities in the coast, from the port of activity through other economic activities and to the exploitation of gravel and sand. What is important is that the coast as a public property will be leased in the public tendering process or the collection of written offers through public advertising, except in the law provided for in the conditions for a direct contract. This is the kind of approach we need to provide for a transparent procedure. Public water companies that manage certain water sectors will be engaged in borrowing, and the control mechanism is the authorities of local self-government as well as the ministry through inspection supervision. This is very important, in our opinion, both because of economic valorisation, the coasts where various activities can be carried out, and for the protection of the natural values and the rareness of the coast, as well as the possible abuses of the leases issued. This is a matter of great responsibility for the management of public goods, which is coastal land, i.e. water land. As environmental protection, and thus the preservation of natural resources, requires one, I would say, integrated approach, it is clear that they are of roof interest and water and land and air and biodiversity. Only by guarding and responsible and just sustainable use of natural resources do we have a chance to stay on this planet, which reminds us of our mistakes every day. We are pleased that you, the Minister and your associates are rightly aware of these mistakes and that you are rightly solving problems when it comes to protecting the environment. Once again, I repeat, of course, in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8331	Alexander Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8332	A respected minister with associates, chairing, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I am a member of a parliamentary group, who is more than interested in preserving nature and natural resources, and I am probably a member of the oldest parliamentary group, perhaps even in Europe, people who remember that this country was once pure and beautiful, and rich in resources, and then came some generations, as they said history was our teacher of life, then some of the hoodlums came and raped our teacher, so we forgot all that. As a member of this parliamentary group, and as a person who has been in the media for years in the fight for environmental protection, I am very interested in every area, which is provided for by this law, amendments and additions to the law, but I am extremely interested and as a person who, 10, 15 years ago, found happiness in nature and decided to fight for it, by protecting and defending it and for the sake of his own, call, personal interests, so that my children may enjoy it. So I'm going to look back, no matter what this topic has, it's got a lot of segments that we can talk about, one of the segments that in the last few years or decades has become one hot political topic, even though it's made under the patronage of nature's protection. It is about people who have found their happiness by the Sava River, mostly in Belgrade on both sides of the coast, and who, thanks to the extremes on one side and the other, are marked as bad people, as usurpers, as people who act irresponsiblely. I think I'll be the first MP to talk about it on this subject, and I think I'll probably be the only one. I think because of all this talk I'm gonna put on someone's anger, but I'm used to being loved or hated by people for what I say honestly and from the heart. I'm one of the people who found your happiness here. Now let me explain to you plastically, both to you and to the citizens of Serbia, how the situation works there, i.e. here in Belgrade. There are two kinds of extremes. Here are the biggest problems of two types of extremes, one that gives a pile of money, believing that money can do what it really wants to build, destroying nature around it, whether it's located by the river or located in the centre of Belgrade or in the middle of the Kosutnjak, they're destroying everything around them by building some million-story buildings, making pools and wonders around them, and not thinking about whether they're destroying the riverbeds and rivers. Another kind of extreme, those are those who hide behind some NGOs, some associations of citizens, abuse the fight to protect and preserve nature. Both of them are absolutely not interested in protecting nature or the environment. And that's where nature goes the worst and the third ones that are the most fortunately, which I estimate by 95%, are those people between whom they decided to live by the river and who in every way tried to preserve nature in their micro-world, the micro-system in which they're surrounded. Belgrade is famous around the world and is known for its micro environments, small rafts, there is virtually no media worldwide that has not transmitted that this is one of Belgrade's most famous spices. But what's been going on lately, in the last ten years, thanks to some petty political interests? All these people are in the same basket. The media that are mostly the way we younger, call it, we can say renting a chip of journalism dealing with the transfer of only one side, which is these, call NGOs that make us all the bad guys. All of them have been making for years that people who are here and who want to live their lives in the most normal and orderly way and who are looking forward to these amendments and the additions of the law, because they will finally try to find a way, not to legalize their houses, property and their status, because we are one minimally stuck in the history of mankind to have anything on parcels and in the Catastres we are the breath of dust of this cosmos, we do not exist, there will be no, for us in 20, 30, 50 years this river will flow through the same stream, the trees may be the same or similar, we will not be. So let's not have the illusion that we can take something. We can only give. I'll tell you from a personal example of what I found 10, 12 years ago, in a call untouchable nature above Block 45. When I went to the Public Enterprise "Belgrade Water" to look for a way to raise a house for rest and recreation, a soybean who was allowed by the Water Act and when I got it, I found myself in the position where I wanted to do it, I found a pile of garbage, a dump. People, it's probably the parents of those same NGOs who, at the time in some of my Milanese, made some cottages, so they didn't have anywhere to hand out garbage, they were handing out by rivers in New Belgrade. Ninety percent of the coast was destroyed with garbage. That's why all that hollow talk about someone coming and destroying the nature of the fall in the water, talking from the first hand, and it's very easy to check, not in those photoshopped photos published by the Thai media, but only in those photos that have people who made something out there. We found a bunch of garbage. We haven't made any villas, we've made small rafts on which anyone can come, we've created some kind of environment that's full of flowers, which is a lot of greenery, and that's 95%. I say again, the extremes that have abused it, on the one hand and on the other, have made us all the bad guys, and we're not. I'll give you two examples that will tell you all the hypocrisy of the people who have abused the struggle to protect the environment. You have NGOs who, several years ago, fought to the last drop of blood to protect all those drug lords and those dumps of trains and waste from illegal destruction so that Belgrade doesn't emerge on the water. I'm not going into what we're getting all over Belgrade on water and I'm not going in a way that this collapse is done in a proper or incorrect way, it's the state that has to solve it, but people who have fought extremely against every type of demolition are only five minutes upstream, so at 45. The block and the more upriver were absolutely continuing to push for the collapse, so they did not identify whether they were against the collapse by the river or for the collapse by the river. They function on the principle of how someone pays them. If they get the money to rebel against the crash they'll rebel, if they get the money to push for the crash they'll push for the collapse, if they get the money for something else they'll basically rent the pumpkins rebel against it, and we'll all still be the bad guys. I'll give you another plastic example. One of the most active associations that almost no tycoon media has failed to pass is to call it the Cycling Association, which unites about a dozen people who every month make strikes by the river. This association demanded that the savoury rash, which otherwise serves to transport not only people who use the river, but also for people from public enterprises, for firefighters, for the police, for emergency aid, so they use it for all kinds of things, of course, pedestrians and cyclists, for years they have been trying to make a picture of the people who use the Savsky rash destroying this Sava rash and how they've brought it into a state that they can't ride bicycles and they're trying to be a cycling trail. What happened three years ago? A group of about fifty people gathered around the Association of Nature lovers "Green Paradise" organized and raised money, and I think for the first time in these rooms decided to patch up every hole that exists from the turn of 45. Block to the edge bridge. They invited all the citizens to join them and then they hired a certain mechanism that each hole on a move of about ten kilometers patched up, so they paid for it themselves, not waiting for the state, patched up every hole. They've informed the media about it, and I think maybe one or two of the online media reported that something like that happened to us that sat down with us. What happened the next day? The Cycling Association, which advocates the preservation of the same Sava dikes, has filed criminal charges against the nn persons who have done the work on the road. Imagine the paradox and hypocrisy that the NGO, that associations that seek to protect certain roads and natural resources sue people who have improved your cycling path. I don't think that's ever happened anywhere. It speaks enough of what the struggle of people hiding behind fighters for the protection of nature actually serves. I will not deal with any extremes or other extremes, I speak for thousands of people whose MP I am, too, who want to find their peace and their happiness by the river, because there live happy and better people, far better than many who surround you. These people are happy about the changes and the addition of laws they hope to be recognized as someone whose problems will be solved. These people want to guard the river, to protect nature. These people want to participate in any subsequent changes and additions to the law as associations of nature lovers and the Sava River in order to pass laws that will help people on the river to become people who will advocate the preservation of rivers, not people whom Thai media and Thai organizations will politically call criminals, thieves, usurperators. That is why I will personally vote in the voting day for the draft law amending the Water Act and I will invite everyone from the state authorities, of course, from the local self-government of the city of Belgrade, to contact these people and that association "Green Paradise" and that in all subsequent attempts to fight for a cleaner and better Sava river we all participate in this together, and that we all fight together against the extremes that would destroy, demonstrating our power of money on the one hand or on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8333	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8334	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act that I will look forward to. This law also covers a subject that is very current, which concerns a mini power plant. In Serbia, however, the construction of a mini power plant began. The problems encountered by the construction of existing mini power plants require a review of the procedures for issuing licences for both planned and built buildings, as well as a ban on further construction in protected areas. It is precisely this law that provides for measures and, above all, a ban on the construction of mini power plants in protected areas, thus preventing the mass destruction of water flows, plant and animal life and other segments of nature, and, on the other hand, will allow legal certainty for potential investors who will have knowledge before taking over any action, which will be clear and precise about where the construction of the mini-electric power plant is banned. The construction of an effective system of management of protected areas will ensure that it is protected and preserved, improved or cured in a real and sustainable manner and all in the public interest, as well as for the welfare of people living in protected areas and economic development operators. Protection regimes are set out in advance to know which activities, i.e. work are prohibited, which are limited spatially, timely, by volume, but also by reference to the spatial schedule of natural and creative values, in order to effectively protect the values of protected areas, and on the other hand to enable planners and investors to be certain about the conditions of nature protection expected in these areas. Water is a natural resource that represents both raw materials and habitats, intentional and means of work, energy and much more. Serbia, as Prime Minister Ana Brnabic announced, will invest about six billion euros in water management over the next few years in addressing China's global Eco Forum, of which 4.3 billion euros go towards protection of water from pollution and 1.5 billion euros in water supply. One of the most important priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the improvement of the funding system, investment investments in planning in the environmental protection sector and the realisation of concrete projects in this area. In addition, Serbia is making great efforts and resources to improve air quality monitoring in exchange for heating boilers and switching to less polluting fuels. Afterwards, large funds are invested in new regional waste management centres, and it is also a matter of rehabilitating and closing about 3,500 illegal dumps in cities and municipalities across Serbia, and significant funds have also been allocated to reforestation of our country. Serbia has intensive co-operation with China in the area of environmental protection with a tendency to improve and expand, so a 2.73 billion-euro sewage network contract has been signed with the Chinese company, as well as for the construction of a 265m-euro municipal solid waste disposal infrastructure. The Clean Serbia project, worth about three billion euros, will be implemented in 70 municipalities in Serbia. In 2050, Serbia aims to be a low-carbon society with an economy that effectively uses resources and new green jobs for citizens who will live in a climate-resistant society. Serbia is now in the development phase and the government is working to develop a strategic and legal framework for low-carbon development and a circular economy. State leadership takes care of the state, clean rivers, clean air, but also that we have enough electricity. That's where I must commend both your work and your pledge, dear minister. The theme of the Green Agenda is very important and Serbia has taken many steps in this area, and these topics occur when people live better and have no other concerns, so air and water are spoken of today in Serbia than ever before. We can talk about nature protection today because besides the crisis that has hit the whole world, we have managed well as the state, and this shows that Serbia has now moved from 59th place to 34th on the list of safest countries in 2021, and this has been affected by the health situation in relation to the coronary virus, the ability to introduce immunisation, but also economic growth. We have not only a sufficient number, but also a palette of vaccines, and we are also working on the production of vaccines in our country. In addition to the fact that, for the citizens, one of the most important things, salaries and pensions continued to grow continuously, the average salary in Serbia is expected to be 612 euros in January, followed by a 5% pension increase by the end of the year. An increase in wages will also allow GDP to grow, and growth is expected to be at 7% this year. Serbia has already been overrun by all Western Balkan countries, and we are expected to reach Bulgaria as of January 1st. Economic security and citizens' security show that Serbia is making progress in every sector. While opposition leaders with expensive cars, purchased at the very least by suspected money or by being on the payroll of the largest tycoons, travel to Serbia for failed gatherings, the work and struggle of authorities headed by Aleksandra Vukic gives results that are obvious and that citizens see and assess in the elections. While the opposition's censorship is a 3% mental noun, we continue to fight and work to make all citizens live better and to be proud of our Serbia. In the day to vote, together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8335	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8336	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, Honored Minister Vujovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow Mrs Vujovic to express her gratitude for everything you have done as Minister for the promotion and protection of the human environment in the Republic of Serbia and to say that your diligence has been recognised by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since my colleagues and colleagues mainly said about nature protection and the second point, let me say why, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, why these changes. First of all, to remove the observed shortcomings in the current application of the law. Secondly, to bring the law into line with the planned system of the Republic of Serbia, because there was not enough harmonisation. Further, aligning with the inspection control law, and that's what needs to be done. Co-ordination with EU rules is one of our tasks. Then, the provisions on the ecological network are definitely and detailed in this bill, which is very important in order to establish the ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the EU's ecological networks. One part of the changes relate to the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas, although we recently adopted the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas. However, this process must be brought to an end. It's about the law, and now, Vice President, let me say a few things about what's going on in political life these last few days. In recent days, they have been left to President Vukic, both the SNS and the Republic of Serbia, many from the environment, but many from our republic. I'll mention a few of them. Believe it or not, this time Boro Novakovic, who, you know, is a respected citizen, has come to remind you who this man is. That's the man who's a professional thief. When I say so, I will not speak in my mind, but remind you that he was caught in an organized voice theft at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here in this high house in 2001. It's her so-called. the ‘Solun’ affair. Then you can see what democracy and rematch he stands for, since he is the vice president of that Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds. Just to remind you, Novakovic was on his official trip to Thessaloniki in 2001, and was not present at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here in this high house, when it was voted on by the Labour Act. Look at the wonders, but someone used his MP card and voted for him. (Alexander Martinovic: Bojan Pajtic. ) Bojan Pajtic, that's right, Mr Martinovic, Bojan Pajtic. These are the people who are criticising the president of the country today and everything that is being done in the Republic of Serbia today. Only on the way to say that this same Boro Novakovic was sentenced to 3.5 years for malfeasance in Novi Sad while he was in power. And he's the vice president of Jeremic. What can I say about Wolf Jeremiah? He's been working against our country's interests, believe it or not, for 15, 20 years. I am now asking him, before you MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is it true, Mr. Wolf, that on the advisory committee of your Centre for International Relations and Sustainable Development, is it true that Swiss politician Michelin Kalmi-Ray is located? Why do I say that? That lady's been fighting for decades for what's-his-name. Independent Kosovo. Can you believe that, esteemed citizens? What does that woman do to you, Wolf Jeremiah? Who's she representing there? You know who the respected citizens represent? She represented Natasa Kandic at international meetings as a representative of normal Serbia. Poor Serbia, whom one and the other represents. Dear citizens, you should not be surprised why the bastard Vuk Jeremic is doing this. He gave up Kosovo already in 2008. In December 2008, he said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Doe, quote: "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best Serbia should hope for." It's a finished quote. That's how he stabbed his own country in the back. Now do you understand, honourable citizens, what is this woman from Switzerland doing at his center? He works on Kosovo's independence and stabs himself in the back of his own state. Just to remind the citizens. Jeremic requested, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the transfer of Kosovo's problem from the UN Security Council to the European Union and thus made it impossible for Russia and China to veto and re-attach the knife in the back of their own state. That I don't count much, there's a lot of it. Well, let me just say, that's why the bats are 27.7, but that was 2010, they celebrate it, but every year at 27.7 as one of the biggest dates for so-called. Kosovo's statehood. On that day, Vuk Jeremic gave Pristina a legal argument to push his so-called. independence. The Cypriot leadership in Pristina sees Vuk Jeremic as the creator of the most important paper in the hands of the so-called so-called "Vuk Jeremic". The independence of Kosovo and Metohija. That's the Wolf of Jeremic. There's a lot more, but I won't go on about him. Dear citizens, to see who criticises the president of the state, the SNS and the MPs in this high house and who this man works for. I'm not talking about those millions coming from Mongolia and all sorts of other destinations. Who else is on the island of President Vukic and Serbia? The president of the Republic of Montenegro Milo Djukanovic. I need to talk about it. He's attacking Serbia from Srebrenica. You saw it the other day. This man, just to remind the citizens, I have to do this for the sake of the Serbs in Montenegro and for the sake of Serbs in Serbia and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Milo Djukanovic suggested forming an Orthodox church of national Montenegrins and thus stabbing the back of the SPC. I'm asking, is it true or not? It's true he suggested it. Djukanovic says, quotes: "We have renewed the state, so we must rebuild the church." It's a finished quote. Well, no one denies the Montenegrin state. And this one that will restore the church, that's Pavelic's thesis. He knows that very well. For Djukanovic, it is important to get out of the autokephane SPC an epithet of Serbian and remain the Orthodox Church of National Montenegrins. Watch out, national Montenegrins. And I have to say it openly here as a man of the profession, not just as a MP. It also consciously goes to the formation of the nationality of the Montenegrins. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, respected citizens of Montenegro, were never in Montenegro from the 10th to the 20th centuries. All historians in Montenegro, and throughout the former Yugoslavia and across Europe, therefore, from the 10th to the 20th centuries, did not exist. In all Montenegrin textbooks, I have examined them, from the 19th century all editions, it says that Serbs live in Montenegro. No one normal or here will question the state of Montenegro. No one's questioning that. It was since the 19th century, there is a day today. But the identity of the state exists both national and national identities. The state identity of Montenegro has been real for centuries. However, when it comes to national, or national identity, the same is true from the 10th century to today. Dear citizens, to clarify this, what is the national identity of the Serbs in Montenegro, what did they make up? Autoxephalenic SPC, Serbian language, Serbian letter, Serbian culture and Serbian customs. And there's really no dilemma. I ask the question – how does Milo Djukanovic, president of Montenegro, think he provides believers for the Orthodox Church of National Montenegrins? There are no believers here. Well, he formed it like that 27 years ago at the House of Culture in Cetinje, and registered at a local police station, believe it or not, but that's true. Indeed, in 2006, Djukanovic singled Montenegro out of the state union with Serbia against the majority in Montenegro, the referendum was stolen, the testimony of the book of Jovan Markusa on 1290 pages. It's so-called. "The White Book," which you probably read. Today, David Gibbs, an American historian, claims that in the election of Milo Djukanovic, he bought all and one vote for the president of the state. Read that book, you'll see. Speaking of the end of Milo Djukanovic, however, to say that on 12 May 2020 he was arrested, he ordered to be arrested, following the Svetovasiljev liturgy in Niksic, the bishop of Ioaniki. Dear citizens, you who are older, communists have never arrested a single bishop in 45 years of government. And I have to tell you, they didn't interfere with church relations. I think I'm glad it is, too, that young and old in Montenegro finally realized that the SPC in Montenegro is the last and biggest dam of what makes us human, the special dam of national and religious identity. I have to quote here the late patriarch Irinej, who criticised Milo Djukanovic, and I quote what he said: "Milo Djukanovic has suffered a major human fall. He was brought to Patriarchy in 1998 and presented as a future and a strong perspective for the Serbian people. He spoke so and promised, and today, says the patriarch, grief takes hold of me when I see how deep a man's fall can be. With such a demand for a compromise, I don't believe it. “ A quote completed on August 9, 2020, the late patriarch, three, four months before his death, stated it. I would say Milo Djukanovic, a poor man, who would say Montenegrin, did not happen to turn one president of any nationality into another nationality and turn the church, but what happened during Pavelic. As for Milo Djukanovic, but let him know, Serbs will always and the queen of Serbia help the Serbian people in the diaspora and the environment. It will not interfere with their election process there, but I ask it to provide Serbs in Montenegro with what Serbia also provides for other minorities, although Serbs in Montenegro are not minorities but people. Have them secure 30%, from municipal level to republican, and you saw that he didn't really do it. The Honorable Vice President and People's MPs, believe it or not, have now become the island of President Vukic, none other than Nenad Canak, called "Gicoje". And from where? Srebrenica criticises President Vukic. What about Nenado Chank? He is constantly fighting for an independent Kosovo, believe it or not. Canak is 5. 3. In 2017, as a failed presidential candidate, he said, "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence" and thus joined those traitorous bastards of our country. He went back a few days to Pristina, and it is very commendable that he visited the grave of an Albanian woman. Why didn't he visit Dragica Gasic in Djakovica? It didn't occur to him. Or that little boy from Goebul? It doesn't come to his mind. You know why he went? I have the courage to say he took the money and came back from Albin Kurti. It works all the time. Well, that's what Nenad Canak does and he needs to be told once that it doesn't make sense anymore. German diplomat, Honored Vice President Orlic, Gert Arens, in his book, entitled "Diplomacy on the Edge" discovered that Nenad Canak, believe it or not, 13. 12. In 1991, he sent Lord Karington and a conference on Yugoslavia a memorandum of Vojvodina saying, "The future of Vojvodina is to become a confederal unit of Serbia, and if Serbia does not accept it, then it will be an independent state." Why is he pushing for an independent Kosovo? Because he expects and fights to be Vojvodina. And once someone has to say this openly to Mr. Nenado Chank. And on the way to say that Nenad Canak, in 1990, believed it or not, but it's true, here I call him to say, for the president of the Republic, he proposed Otto von Habzburg and he humiliated the Serbian people and the state. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is another one that has taken place on the president of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, which is former DS MP Balsa Bozovic. You can't believe that. I quote what he said on July 12th 2021. He said, quote, "The genocide in Srebrenica must never be forgotten and the truth about genocide must be answered forever," a quote concluded and accused Serbs and Serbia of genocide. Balsa Bozovic, I'm sorry, Bozovici, I'll tell him, and he knows what it means when I tell him, because I told him that here while he was an MP. Look what that man's doing. Do you know what this man does, how he fights the Republic of Serbia? I'll tell you now. The European Parliament's foreign policy committee has produced a study entitled "Mapping False News and Disinformation in the Balkans" and marked who is the largest spreader of false news in Serbia. Dear citizens, can you believe who they marked? Not the press, but Balša Bozovic as the biggest spreader of false news. I now invite him, if he has a little morale, and I believe he doesn't, and his cheek, because he's fatter than my shoe sole, because he's gone, let him apologize to the President of the Republic and his family for all the lies he's told over the past five years, let him apologize to Mr. Martinovic for all the lies he's told, Dr. Orlic for all the lies and last night one television under the control of Dragan Djilas repeats those lies he told Balša Bozovic, three or four times last night. All lies and lies. So he has no cheek, that man has no cheek. You know what else he's into? He founded the Academy of Democracy with a centre in Novi Sad for the whole region. Do you know who he called for a lecturer? You'll be shocked, respected citizens. Bogića Bogicevic, the one whose voice was broken in Yugoslavia, because he did not vote for state of emergency without talking about others who appear. Such attacks by President Vukic and all that was done in this country during the time of President Vukic. You see, every factory is under attack from being built. Who else did he attack? The Serbian Orthodox Church. He has joined the largest extremes from Croatia, with Sonja Biserko, who accuse the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic of making so-called. Some Serbian world, that's what Balsa Bozovic says these days, according to Belgrade, Podgorica and Banja Luka. That's terrible stuff. In the end, no wonder, because you know what he said about Kosovo, I quote: "Everyone knows that Kosovo is definitely lost in the war in 1999." That's what Balsa Bozovic said. Do you know whose policy he's running? You're smart, respected citizens, you only need information, so you can conclude. While our President Aleksandar Vukic daily returns Serbia's international reputation and does so very successfully, implementing a policy of peace, security policy, solidarity policy, a policy of health for all our citizens, not only in Serbia, but also in the region, a policy of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia and a policy of a compromise and long-term solution for our southern Serbian province, until Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and their co-workers mud the state of Serbia, and therefore they have already been thrown into a political past that I claim will never again appear on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure justice will catch up with them sooner or later, and I believe in our judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8337	Thank you. The word is Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8338	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Law regulates the legal status of water, integrated water management, facilities, land. By implementing the law adopted, it has shown its shortcomings which should be addressed to complements and, of course, comply with EU laws, the harmonisation of the inspection law, the general administrative procedure, the violations, the protection of personal data, as well as public property. A proposal from the World Fund for Nature was adopted to protect against floods... The draft law stipulates that a river application extraction programme is being adopted for a period of two years. The Water Act provides for the possibility that groundwater can be used to irrigate agricultural land, as well as to control the quality of that water, to encourage waste water treatment, to control the quality of water intended for human use, both for drinking under certain standards, of course, and for bathing and recreation, measures to monitor hazardous substances whose release into nature is limited or prohibited, to prevent and control large industrial plants with high pollution potential, and to be in the obligation to have permits with met environmental conditions, to assess the risk of floods in order to reduce their adverse impacts, both on people, both in the environment and in the economy. We witnessed the catastrophic floods in 2014 that hit especially Obrenovac, which could have been prevented by the care of the former government, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic. Insufficient investment was the main cause of the problem, negligence. The government of the Republic of Serbia's responsible policy, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, has invested about 17.5 billion dinars in recovery and flood protection. The Public Investment Management Office together with the "Serbian pipelines", 51 local waterways, 18 floodwater dams, as well as the clean-up of the troughs, were renovated, as well as 13 dikes, as well as 25 bulkheads. That's how the responsible government heads up with a president who has a responsibility to his people. Serbia is building, rising from ashes, ruins and all that you hate so much, you can't turn to either side without seeing cranes, machines, workers working tirelessly and building to restore their people to their Serbia. They build highways, hospitals, clinical centres, bridges, railroads, factories. You can't help but see. Yes, I know, you will say. It is built of our money. I am now asking you – could it have been built from your money in the period from 2000 to 2012? What was built during that time? If it had been built with this intensity, where would Serbia be now? Why don't you ask where your money is from 2000 to 2012 as you can see where your money is today? I will tell you -- in the accounts of Dragan Gilas, in his real estate, in the 619m euros he took from you. Well, there's your money. In the day for the vote, I will support the proposal to supplement and amend the law, as well as my Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8339	Thank you. The word is Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8340	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a bill on amendments to the Nature Protection Act, a bill aimed at removing certain problems and shortcomings that have been seen in the current application of the law. Certainly, the need for this bill to be found in the parliamentary procedure before the MPs is that certain legal procedures should be brought into line with EU rules, which makes it clear that the process of harmonisation with European legislation is very important and that we will always act responsibly. The provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act are designed to establish an ecological network in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as an EU ecological network called "Natura 2000", which is very important when we talk about the protection of natural resources and localities. I would highlight the provisions of Article 36 which stipulates that areas classified as areas of European importance, and in accordance with the provisions of this law, are set up as parts of the ecological network and enjoy full protection until they become part of the Natura 2000 European ecological network. The proposed law, as well as the Climate Change Act that we adopted at one of the previous sessions, shows a clear intention and vision that our topic of environmental protection is at the top of the basic priorities, as it was contained in Prime Minister Brnabic's exhibition in October 2020. The question of nature and environmental protection is the question, and we all have to give that answer together. When I say everyone, we have to give an answer here, or the answer must be given by the relevant institutions, the competent state authorities, and the individuals themselves. When you take the highway from Belgrade to Nis on one light signalling "The Way of Serbia" stands the slogan you can read, which is that nature returns to you as much as you give it as an individual. That's exactly what I agree with. Each of us here, both the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has a high degree of responsibility when we talk about protecting the environment and protecting nature. Each of us with its own behaviour today and tomorrow can also influence better, better or worse environmental protection, but this degree of responsibility, which we all share together, is much greater if we have a clear response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry to address certain essential issues of importance for the whole country and complete society in a faster, more concrete and more dynamic way. What we as People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot in any way deny is that the issue of environmental protection is placed at the top of the basic priorities, which shows that we are as a state and as a social community we are fully mature and fully prepared to address issues that are important to society as a whole. That maturity was very successful years ago when we were forced as a state to address issues that were important to the survival of the state and its system. Until a few years ago, we had to worry about our monetary system being sustainable, that our country was financially stable, that our salaries and pensions were stable and that our salaries and pensions would be higher in the coming years. Of course, when you work to create a strong and financially stable state, you certainly also work to develop it on sound grounds of environmental protection issues and similar issues remain in the shadow of previous problems. Today, when the average profit is 550 euros, today when the minimum profit is 32,000 dinars, and during the former regime's representatives amounted to about 15,000 dinars, today when the infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia is not historicly maximum, we can now be much more committed to solving issues related to nature and environmental protection. I can't help but notice the clear vision and goals that you, the Minister, and your ministry have set before you and I am glad that you show a great degree of diligence and responsibility throughout the various actions daily. In recent months, the ministry has been focusing on the interest of most media, which in one smaller or larger way in one objective way informs citizens of everything your ministry has done, and these results are neither small nor invisible. The results of your ministry can be seen daily through the realization of various projects that are essential to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and here I would point out the resolution of the multi-annual problem with the non-sanitary deposit of Stanjevina in Prepolje, which was removed after 40 years, and at the site of the dump, grass and evergreen growth were planted. I would also like to highlight the works on the construction of the Banjica station transfer, after which waste will be transported to this location from four municipalities, which are Prijepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš and Sjenica and which will then be transported to the regional centre of Duboko to Užica. Certainly the goal is to eventually close the non-sanitary dump in Priboj to which the waste of neighbouring municipalities is delayed. What certainly set us apart from the period before 2012 and what separates us from many countries in the region are capital projects. The "2020-2025" programme for capital projects and projects in the area of construction and infrastructure will single out over five billion euros, which shows a clear and responsible policy by Aleksandr Vukic and SNS to make this country and this society more prosperous. Of course, these capital projects include ecological projects that will make our citizens' lives better and healthier. All these things that I said and what my previous colleagues said in their presentations cannot be left unaccompanied by the media who in different ways are not favored by the politics of Alexander Vukic, the SNS and all that we as MPs do in this high house. I have noticed and observed the constant attacks of these media on everything that is well done for the better lives of citizens, but the constant intensity of these media that are close to the representatives of the former regime, and in particular Dragan Gilas, Vuka Jeremic and others today called the opposition, is that the topic of environmental protection and all the successes that the ministry has achieved in the past few months has shifted to a political field in which green paint will turn yellow, red, or a plan that paints them into the coat of arms of the party. Not once in October when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, when you took over the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we didn't have in the media any representatives of opposition parties who in one way praised what we did in the area of environmental protection. You know, these are things that are easily visible, these are things that the citizens of Preboba and the citizens of Novi Varosha, citizens of complete Serbia, but it is obvious that everything that is done well and not only in the field of environmental protection, but also in the area of construction in the area of economy, in the area of social policy, must be dirty with political slogans so that these same representatives of the former regime mask their unhappiness, ignorance and incompetence. To solve a problem doesn't mean to call in your media the same day and try to make a bad one, because it suits you and your failed policy completely. But what I must especially point out is that in the last few months we have been meeting certain types of environmental movements and these environmental movements that can contribute to healthier and better Serbia, I fully support. These environmental movements can give greater importance to the protection of the environment and can give a good indication of how a particular essential issue relating to health and environmental protection can be addressed and how. But I don't support those environmental movements that are registered as green to be more receptive to the people, and behind them are the policies and rhetoric of the former regime's representatives. Knowing that the people don't want them, and knowing they don't have support, they realized they were creating ecological movements that would be their cover for political points. Then, all of a sudden, you see a huge amount of ecological movements on our political scene that argue that everything good is bad, and you can see that this rhetoric is no different from the rhetoric of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, and those who are constantly leading attacks against SNS, Alexander Vukic and all of us who are MPs in the Electoral Group Alexander Vukic-For our children. You know, during today you could see it was so-called. opposition leader Dragan Gilas, along with his people, and I would not say from the SP party, as they already call it, but from the political party "Multicom Group", since all those people around him are employees of the company "Multicom Group", they are today going to the First Basic Prosecutor's Office and asking the prosecution for so-called answers why the prosecution has not acted on their alleged application in the past few months, it is related to the Mauricias affair. So I would also ask the question to all the competent prosecutors, when we will also get the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to answer how, how they spent their national money, how the RTS was harvested, how other city institutions and city enterprises were harvested, and how Dragan Djilas, by performing exclusively state functions, gained 619m euros, and then gained the opportunity to pay out of these same money to Marinika Tepic and to pay all others who campaign against Alexander Vukic and SNS today. Also, I have to tell you that all these people today have to use so-called. ecological movements to gain certain political points because they know that their actions cannot cross that 3% threshold, which we have changed to help small political parties directly to enter this parliament, and everyone today sees that these parties are not here. They're not there because they're pushing for rematchism, and if I'm not today, here, after two, or three months, I can't tell what it is in Vuk Jeremic's head is rematchism. It's obvious that he has a need for all of us who support the policy of prosperity, that after the SNS leave the authorities to chase us down the streets, I don't know what they're going to do to us. Then, when they fail that policy, so-called. The rematch then goes to the presidency directly to the president to deal with him. You know, four musketeers, in one day, agree that they get some media attention, go to President Alexander Vukic, and then go barefoot in the thorn, and then make a lot of comments in the coming days that they didn't want to do it at all, but they went like that, so they ask him when the elections will be, and I don't know what. You know, that kind of policy can't go away, and that kind of policy went through by 2012. Just such a bad policy, it led to us being in complete ambition in 2012 and having to solve all these things and having to solve 10 years later. In order for me not to take up time for my next colleagues to participate in this debate, I want to give you full support to you and your ministry in further work and that we will all make a full contribution in the coming period to make our Serbia even cleaner and healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8341	Thank you. The word is "Milica Dacic."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8342	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, a little less than four months ago, we adopted a strategically important act for our country in the field of environmental protection, the Climate Change Act, which confirmed Serbia's further economic growth based on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, the adoption of this law has also confirmed that it is on the European path, the path of integration and will follow European values and standards in this area as well. Today, when we talk about the proposal for important amendments and the addition of the Nature Protection Act, another important law in the field of environmental protection, it should be pointed out that the reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the text of the law itself to other regulations in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the removal of the shortcomings in its application and, of course, the harmonisation of the rules with EU regulations, not losing sight and that primary objective, which is to preserve and improve the protection of the environment, the protection of nature, because as the sayings the country did not get from its ancestors, but borrowed from its descendants. Of course, we had no doubt that, in accordance with the procedure, the Ministry would conduct a public debate and inform the public of the proposal to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act, but I think it is important for the wider public to point out that the overall public hearing procedure was carried out on a timely basis, in a transparent and accessible manner, and that the public was interested, and above all, in civil society, that they had an extended deadline for the submission of remarks, suggestions and proposals, and it was not mandatory for the Ministry to do so. The proposal to amend and supplement the process of establishing Serbia's ecological network in a way that prescribes the establishment of an ecological network as a coherent functional and spatialally connected continent to preserve habitat types of particular importance. What is very important is that Article 108 of the amendment states that the government will meet local self-governments in whose territories are protected areas and will provide in the Republic of Serbia's budget incentives to coordinate in order to develop those actions that favour the preservation of the protected area. Since the protected areas include the Ovčarko-cablar ravine as an area of exceptional qualities, which is mostly located in the territory of the town of Cačka, a small part of the municipality of Luciani, which is managed by the tourist Chačka, I would draw attention to this exceptional area of Serbia in which the Serbian Government and your Ministry are investing large funds to encourage the coordination of tourism and recreation with the features of the area itself, but also to accelerate scientific and educational activity. The oatmeal-cablar ravine is not only important because of its geological-morphological excellence, which is a special impression given by meanings, but also because of its diverse flora and fauna, and at the same time there is an internationally significant area for birds. There, in this sense, the works on the construction of the Ovčar Banja itself have already begun, the arrangement of its surfaces, parks, bridges, but one of the agreed segments for which the funds have been identified and your ministry is just the construction of a Natural History Museum which will give me a sure significant contribution to the scientific public but also to school excursions and the arrival of educational activities, because our children should love their country as well. The proposed changes are treated by a highly discriminatory area of construction of mini hydropower plants, by harmonising the legal text with the already adopted Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in protected areas. I will remind myself that the Nature Protection Act was adopted in 2009 and what results from the text of amendments and the addition of the law is that it gives an unequivocally advantage to the protection of the environment, and that the construction of small hydropower plants violates this concept and that it is the proposal that the promoter specifically prohibits the construction of these objects in protected areas, but that you already issue acts for the construction of new ones. In that sense, I am sure that the MP group Aleksandar Vukic – To our children, will give support to this act, especially because very often political opponents represent us as haters of nature, destroyers of rivers and forests and this law is proof of the opposite. Serbia's advanced party has only been given to solve problems that have accumulated for decades, as it has done with responsibility and security so far, so it will continue in these challenging times ahead, bearing a burden of responsibility with dignity, and in a way that does not harm the citizens of its country who have given her trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8343	Thank you. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8344	I swear that I will perform the duty of a People's MP in a committed, fair, safe and faithful manner to the Constitution. To defend human and minority rights and civil freedoms and best knowledge and skills to serve Serbian citizens truth and justice. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Vujovic, we made a commitment to this oath in this House on 3 August 2020 that we would carry out our parliamentary duties above all else in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in our preamble, which every citizen and every MP should and must be respected, he says. Starting with the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, starting with the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position the provinces of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and foreign political relations. It is absolutely unclear to me how it is possible that some colleagues, who, on the same day as me, spoke the words of this oath and committed themselves to the respect of the Constitution and the law of this country, could in the most harsh way have broken both the oath and the Constitution of this country and, by their visit to Albybino Kurti and Pristina, expressed at that time on the side of Kosovo separatists and those who call themselves the government so-called. Kosovo and become speakers of the so-called Kosovo's congregations in this High House. Is it possible that they are able to spit so brutally on their own country and on its institutions on this High House? What they did was no democracy, no civil disobedience is a direct attack on the state of Serbia. The only thing that may be worse than the total deafening and violation of the Constitution and the laws of this country is their partial application in the parts that suit them, while in other parts of them they remain completely blind. That's what they do and that's the group of MPs who here, in their words, defends the interests of Bosniak and Albanian national minorities as well as of all other peoples living in this country. All they care about is the interests of the Serbian people and they only care about the Serb people who live in parts of our territory, who, unfortunately, are smaller. It is precisely in these areas that the Serbian people are exposed to their kind of apartheid because it is different religion and different national belongings. I am sorry that the people's MPs I mention are not here right now to speak to them directly, but I am interested in whether a few days ago in Pristina and Kurti talked about an attack on 13-year-old Nikola Peric, who is only because the Serb was exposed to brutal violence by a group of unknown perpetrators who are likely to remain unknown in view of how they work so-called. Kosovo institutions, i.e. so-called Kosovo police. Did they perhaps express concern about the position of Ms. Dragica Gasic from Djakovica, who was exposed to attacks just at the time of their visit just because she decided to grow old and welcome her death on her hearth? I see these days that someone who's forbidden to go to the store to get bread and basic life supplies. Did they perhaps talk about the fact that from January 1st 2021 to July 4th of this year, even 35 attacks were carried out on members of the Serbian people, the Serbian Orthodox Church, by July 4th of this year? That even yesterday, that we had a brutal attack on 67 Ranko Bacic, who was guarded by Kosovo police at the Cave Hospital after the attack? This is something that happens over and over again. The moment they hit the wall in the Brussels negotiations, they try to push our compatriots living on KIM to pressure Belgrade. I am convinced that none of what I mentioned was the subject of talks in Pristina. I must say that I am extremely proud that in this high house every member of each political group has the right to state their views and opinions and I am also even more proud that these things that I mentioned do not happen to the rest of Serbia. Not only as a MP or a member of the Assembly Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, but as a man and as someone who comes from a mixed environment, I've always been prepared and always will be ready to protect and stand up for every man of any religion and nation living in this country, and to whom the rights are in some way threatened. No one's rights and freedoms, respected MPs, are in such a brutal way threatened as Serbia at KIM. That's why I can't understand how those who are the loudest in this high house when it comes to rights and freedoms can be so blind and ignorant of all the troubles that their fellow citizens who are not their nationalities are exposed to and are openly sided with Albin Kurti and Kosovo separatists. Because of this kind of hypocrisy that they are persistently showing, they have also been punished by their voters and they are free to say, a debacle in previous elections when they lost most of the municipalities in the Raška region and their duality has also shown that when they were ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and were at the head of the Office for the Development of underdeveloped areas they were not so loud in defending their rights and freedoms. That's when this country was their mother. The moment they became the opposition, they remembered again that they were defenders of rights and freedom, but again in one paradoxical way that their main counterparts and friends were in the whole process, Albin Kurti and Ismet Azizi. And as they refer to their fellow citizens, for example in Bujanovac where the Serb population accounts for 40% of the population, ignoring it, while at the same time seeking ministerial seats in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, they have sided with all those who propose resolutions that are being stegmated by the entire Serbian people and whose enthusiasm is accepted by Albanian separatists in Kosovo. What particularly hurts them and pisses them off that it is fortunate and thank God that most of the Bosniak population and peoples of Serbia experience as their country and country and that all of us in these areas, regardless of faith and nation, are plagued by the same problems and share happiness and joy no matter what. Taking into account all of the above, I think that the competent authorities of this country must take concrete steps to sanction those persons and thus preserve the country's legal and constitutional order. At the end of my presentation, I would return to the words of the oath that we have spoken in this high house and for some it represents only a dead letter on paper, but still, as our folk proverb says – it binds to the horns and the man to the word. On this occasion, we made a commitment to serve not only the Constitution, but also the truth and justice. And justice, it should not be gone and that the real difference should be equally important and Serbian tears, and some MPs should know that. Mr. Chairman, I've probably broken the Rules of Procedure with my speech, and I'm aware of that, but I've also committed myself in this high house to defend the Constitution and the laws of this country, and I think I'm doing it this time. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8345	I thank Mr. Srbanovic. Next up is counterpart Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8346	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there are amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Nature and Waters. These two laws are very important, as well as other laws concerning the environmental sector and environmental protection, because it favours political interference in these areas, and a number of opposition politicians in the field of environmental protection twist our words, twisting the letters of the law, misleading the people and collecting cheap political points. That is why we need to stand clear and present these legal solutions to the citizens. The position of both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly a protection of the environment. These amendments and additions to the Water Act define the exact measures for the construction of mini power plants. A catalogue for the construction of mini power plants was established in 1987 and we are aware of how much and potential and resources are also the rapid waterways of our Republic of Serbia, as well as the very waters of our Republic of Serbia. The catastra describes 856 locations as possible potential locations for building a mini power plant. Recently, we also adopted the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, and this law and this law clearly define that there is no possibility of building a mini power plant in protected areas. We are aware in the 21st century of the importance of energy and energy and that it is impossible to imagine the functioning of today's world without electricity. In Serbia, there is quite a noticeable irrational consumption of both electricity and heat. I would remind the citizens that at this point in the Republic of Serbia still gets 75% of electricity from the thermal power plants and that we are very aware of the environmental impact it has on the environment. And we must all work together to seek renewable energy sources and so on. green energy, but we have to balance it out, because we can't at the expense of renewable energy and green energy to disrupt the environment. We had a chance to see the so-called spring. an ecological uprising, a front for political protests organised by individuals who try to pick up political points on environmental issues. In that protest, we also saw Zoran Lutovac and other false environmentalists. We also remember how they protested the construction of a mini power plant on the Old Mountain, without telling citizens at any time and presenting that the construction of a mini power plant in a protected area was prohibited. That's exactly how they twist facts and deceive the people. They imagined that both the thermal power plants and the Ironworks in Smederev and the mine in Bor were shut down overnight. Neither is it possible, nor is it real. What we can do and what we have to do is make regulations and laws, in order to minimise environmental pollution. They were 12 years old who had been gambled. They weren't interested in air pollution, but neither was the fact that the workers in Bor and Smederev had no salary for years. But that didn't stop Dragan Gilas from taking up an apartment in Bora. Their only concern for environmental protection is that of "Let's Clean Serbia", i.e. Let's clear the budget and fill their budgets in Mauritius and Hong Kong. On the other hand, we are today passing the Nature Protection Act, which defines defects and all that is seen as a flaw in the application of the very Law on the Protection of the Environment. An ecological network and a regulation on the ecological network shall be established. This law regulates the legal status of water, integrated water management, water management and water facilities and other issues of importance for water management. What we can do, like I said, and what we have to do is make regulations and laws, so that environmental pollution is minimal. But the people see everything and know everything. He knows that this interesting political group has no other goals, except to weaken the state and bring down economic growth and living standards. When 15 years ago we had the opportunity to watch the protests in Italy over wearing natural fur, it was unimaginable that someone in Serbia was protesting environmentalism. The citizens then, 15 years ago, had much bigger problems of basic existence, because they did not know if they would have regular monthly salaries and how they would feed the family. Today Serbia is economically stable, we have the largest economic growth in both the region and Europe. The highways are being built, we have a larger flow of foreign investment, and it's good, on the one hand, for people to be aware of environmental protection. But there's a bitter taste that these protests are just another dance so-called. The opposition. These problems didn't arise yesterday, and they can't be solved in one day. On the contrary, they've been piled up for decades. And while Aleksandar Vukic is working precisely to solve this, but also many other problems, in order to have a stable and developed state, the opposition, in the absence of its ideas and programmes, is trying exclusively to bring down our country's reputation, but he deals exclusively with personal threats to the president and his family. It is not normal for their only form of political struggle to be an insult to anyone or a threat. That really must not be allowed, because it is not a decent Serbia. The competent citizens of the Republic of Serbia have not damaged and embezzled the budget, so they have been hiding the money in secret accounts all over the world. Their boss, Dragan Gilas, has placed all over the world and accounts and offshore companies, and during the government, the former pension regime has been paid out of loans, as citizens' money has been poured over into their private accounts. They're best spoken of by their political agenda, which they don't actually have. In voting day, together with my colleagues, I will support a set of proposed amendments and additions to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8347	Thank you. The word is Gojko Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8348	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have, among other things, the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, which more precisely defines the process of assessing environmental acceptability for the ecological network and provisions on the ecological network, of course, in accordance with the Wildbird Conservation Directive and the Directive on the conservation of the natural habitats of wild animal and plant species. What is important to point out at the outset is that, through compliance with European Union regulations, we will be able to form a counsel for users of protected areas, which is one of the really brilliantly envisaged legal solutions. The Natura 2000 ecological network is, by the way, the largest network of protected areas in the whole of Europe and numbers some 27,000 protected areas. When we talk about Serbia, Serbia has 101 protected areas and it takes up about 7% of our entire territory. I am really happy that we will increase this percentage to about 10% in the coming period, which will be possible in line with the EU Biodiversity Strategy. The Climate Change Act, the Regulation on Acceptability Assessment, but also these proposed amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act today also tell us that the Ministry of Environment Protection is indeed committed to harmonising all the legislation of our country with European Union regulations, because Serbia is now on a really good path towards the European Union, i.e. on a good path towards membership in the European Union, and the Ecological Network "Natura 2000" represents an inevitable element in this process. At the very beginning of the presentation, the minister pointed out one detail in history, which none of us should forget, is a ban on cutting forests in the 14th century within the framework of Dusan's Code, and I would remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and 1863, when the order of the prince Michael Obrenovic was made to plant trees. As I pointed out in one of my previous exhibitions, an order that was then intended to embellish Belgrade's barrage through greening and shaming, where every citizen was obliged to plant a tree that was due to maintain, or water, a fence around that tree, and if the tree died, he was obliged to pay the fine, or punishment. Later in 1891, a Law on the Forests was passed, a law that at that time, I am talking about in 1891, was an example of a really modern law in Europe. The Law of the Forests, and I will read here one of the provisions of this law, which reads: the forests are neither anywhere, nor can they be the property of a generation; they are the general treasures which every generation is bound to preserve and unbroken, as it has inherited, to surrender to the generation that is behind it. It can only enjoy interest, but the principal can't scribble. And if Serbia's path to EU membership is clearly defined today, again, we cannot forget, we must not forget the struggle of the Serbian people through history for a healthier environment. I say again, Prince Michael's orders would aim to embellish Belgrade's town, we can conclude that, in addition to this beauty today, when there is a fight against climate change, this command had a much higher goal, a much higher goal at a time when the EU didn't even exist, but I repeat, compliance with EU rules can only bring Serbia good. In my presentation today, I will return back to history in the 1980s, when one of the green parties in Europe was created, it was the Green Party in Germany, which had its representatives since 1983 and 1987, in the Bundestag, led by Petro Kelly, when they were characterized, as one pro-Russian option due to their pacifist attitude in the 1980s. When they advocated the construction of US military bases on Europe's territory, we would later feel their pacifist policy in 1999, when the minister was right out of the green, German government Minister Joschka Fisher. So we understood their pacifist policies back then, but back in the '80s, they were for them, i.e. They're characterized as a watermelon. They said that the Green Party is in Germany, like a watermelon because their policy is being implemented only on the outside, they're only green on the outside, and inside they're red again, alluding to that connection with the Soviet Union. Today, when we look at representatives of the former regime in Serbia led by Dragan Gilas and various quasi experts dealing with this area, they are trying to deal more accurately, we can say that they are one specific variety of the same watermelon that is on the outside green, and inside it is yellow. Yellow, because it's the same yellow tycoon policy since before 2012, which has nothing to do with protecting the environment. It is the same yellow tycoon policy, which led to the fact that we in Serbia before 2012, had an unemployment rate of about 26% and that the young literally fled Serbia. Today, this same unemployment rate is below 10%, has a stable budget, a higher standard of living for citizens, and we can really focus on solving a number of accumulated problems in this area. When we talk about some other yellow followers of Dragan Dilas, I think it is important to point out Marinika Tepic. Marinika Tepicko, who for a time dealt with the issue of the existence of a chicken farm within a military facility to deal with the process of deforestation, for example, in Novi Sad. Here I have one of her statements where she says about Novi Sad among other things – this morning the smell, everyone complains, then she literally dropped all the leaves, green, people filming, never saw. This epochal discovery of Marinika Tepic that leaves can fall is truly amazing. A completely natural process of reducing the leaves Marinika Tepic uses for her policy of insanity and every sense of collecting cheap political points. Perhaps he best described this link between Marinika Tepic and the environmental protection of her colleague Nikola Jovanovic, who literally presented in one sentence the link between Marinika Tepic and an alternative vision, the green vision of transport, and the bicycle. Later, one of the opposition leaders, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, also presented in his book the link between Marinika Tepic and the bike. Out of respect for this visa home, I will not quote Nikola Jovanovic or the title of Mr Vojislav Seselj, and if he wants to deal with environmental protection, I think he should perhaps start from buying that bike. Given that Marinika Tepic comes from Novi Sad, we should know that in Novi Sad we have defined from the New Sad budget the funds of eight million dinars in the first round, we have now defined new additional ten million dinars for subsidising the purchase of bicycles as an alternative type of transport and thus we will increase the number of cyclists in our city's territory, but also improve the situation in the area of environmental protection through improving the quality of air in our city. While I consider it to be Mariner Tepic's boss, Dragan Djilas, again, that he can give her another yellow bonus on her salary to buy that bike, but again, given that Marinika Tepic is driving this 155,000-euro luxury Porsche, I doubt she would go from Porsche to her bike, because her car is equal to the total value of the New Sad city. So, as defined in the budget of the city of Novi Sad for subsidizing purchases of approximately 1800 bicycles. We are aware that neither Marinika Tepic nor Dragan Djilas is interested in Serbia, let alone the topics that will contribute to improving the environment, because they are guided by one policy, I say again, in the sense of insanity, the invention of affairs, the policy of violence, the policy of aggression. What is crucial for Dragan Gilas is precisely hatred for Alexander Vukic and that hatred if it were turned into electricity would be enough to illuminate several cities in our country. So in voting day, I call on all the MPs to support all the proposed changes and additions to this Nature Protection Act, because that is the only way we will manage to improve the situation in this area, but also to improve the quality of our citizens' lives and preserve the health of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8349	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8350	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two amendments and amendments to the law, amending and supplementing the Nature and Change Act and supplementing the Water Act. What I must say first is that protecting and preserving nature, preserving the environment is actually a struggle to preserve quality life and the health of the population and, of course, to fight for the better quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, by following the Nature Protection Act, certain shortcomings have been observed, and these changes and additions to the law, these shortcomings are effectively eliminated. I would like to highlight several shortcomings that are being eliminated by this draft law by amending and supplementing the Nature Act, which is, firstly, strict respect for the precautionary principle, which means fast, effective and responsible response of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Ecology in all those situations where danger threatens, or threatens the risk of endangering particularly protected areas. I would also like to particularly commend that the construction of a hydropower plant in protected areas of the first category, and in areas of the second and third categories, it is not possible to do so without the consent of the Ministry of Ecology and for the protection of the environment. Also, in order to increase the participation of local self-government of all representatives of those organisations and chambers dealing with nature conservation and the conservation of the environment of NGOs representatives at a specific site, I would like to point out the advice of users who can also follow, provide suggestions and remarks for all those activities taking place in their fields. But what I want first of all to point out is that I come from the southwestern part of Serbia from the Municipality of Priboj, and I have to point out that the entire southwest Serbia at the time of the authorities of the yellow tycoon Dragan Dilas, Tadic, Jeremic, that these were municipalities called the valleys of famine, that the population of these municipalities was mass evicted, because factories were closed, which was not jobs, about the ecologicality of then talking about it was like talking about a spaceship at the time. Today, of course, thanks to responsible policy, economic first of all, Alexander Vukic, we show that we are a fully mature and responsible society and that the issue of ecology, we approach and that with great seriousness and responsibility. What is commendable is that the decades-long problem, which is the non-sanitary dump in Stanjevina, near Prijepolje, is in fact in Prijepolje, and on the main road leading to Belgrade-South Adriatic, as well as on the master road leading to the Millesev monastery, the medieval monastery of our monastery, in which is the fresco under the protection of the Uneska "White Angel" found a non-sanitary dump. In January of this year, Limo traveled a large amount of waste in the case of 10,000 cubic metres of waste, but thanks to the responsibility, quick and effective response of the Ministry of Ecology and Environmental Protection, the waste was transferred to the Užice dump. It's been working for a few days, but except the waste was removed and Stanjvine's dump was completely recovered. Today she is planted with fours, planted with grass, and it will surely one day be part of the park and serve as a vacation for the citizens. What I also want to point out and to praise, which is that the environment minister reacted quickly and efficiently, of course asking for co-operation with the representatives of neighbouring countries, because the Lim River springs from Montenegro, flows through Serbia and flows into BiH. So she asked for co-operation so it wouldn't come to this anymore. Of course, apart from being rehabilitated, Stanjevina, the Stanjevina dump, which is visible and which every citizen can see, it's something that can't be put in his pocket, it's a mirror of this government, it's a mirror of the responsible policies of Aleksandr Vucic, it's ultimately the work of your ministry, Mrs Vujović. I must point out that projects concerning floating dams are approved, which will serve as a waste collection of 70 million dinars for the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje, but I also have to point out that the Ministry has also co-financed a project for land recovery, for skating, and for the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje, amounting to 20.2 million dinars. When it comes to the transfer of stations, in Novi Varoša, the ministry has defined 160 million dinars for it, and the Druglici deposit, which is located in Prepolje, of course, by opening this transfer station, will be moved but what is being thought about, this government is thinking strategically, and it is building a dump for the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Senica, which should cost about 15m euros somewhere. I must also point out that this government is also working to extend the Deep to Užica dump, as well as to resuscitate the ice-skating site and in this sense, the ministry has defined 96m euros for the expansion of the Deep to Užica dump. In the municipality of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, as well as the southernmost southwestern municipalities, in the Republic of Serbia, politicians used to come to the time of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, mostly coming during the campaign, had lied to something and nothing had ever been done. So, on May 21st of this year, visiting the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje, there was also President Alexander Vukic, and what I must point out is that for the first time in 40 years, that day, a four-star hotel opened in Priboj, otherwise, a fully reconstructed hotel that was built around the 50th century. Also in that day is the German investor factory, which employs 400 workers, 70% of the workers in the factory are women. I also have to point out that the government has invested huge material resources in an industrial zone in Priboj, in which about 400 workers are working today, and these cities are reborn cities and I can freely say that Alexander Vukic's policies have breathed life into both Priboj and Prepolje and Nova Varoš and Sjenica. Everything Alexander Vukic promised, he fulfilled. What I have to point out, too, is the possibility that Priboj and Prepolje and Nova Varoš, and Sjenica, join the pipeline, which will also mean new jobs, but of course much cleaner air. Also in Priboj, thanks to the Public Investment Office and later the loan, by the end of this year, should also be completed heat on biomass that will contribute to a significant reduction in air pollution. While this government, while President Aleksandar Vucic took care of all segments of society's development, both economic and military and health care and environmental and social, the former government led by Dragan Gilas, a bank robber, took care of itself. Except that Dragan Gilas usurped on the Kosovo space to build the Big Brother's house, and since the first reality broadcast, which he brought to Serbia and garnered millions of euros, and for himself after completing and taking money into his own pockets, he left only a dump for the citizens. I'll show the photograph, it's a dump where dead rats are, where mice are, where things are scattered. He left the dump to the citizens, and he filled his pockets with money, people's money. I must also point out that there is nothing better with Pajtic, who at the time ruled in Vojvodina, and he robbed children distracted in development, through the castle "Hetherland", was taken over 157 million, and after them were only ruins. I don't have that picture, but I have shown it before, and I have to point out that today the castle "Heterland", completely renovated and renovated and the Provincial Government has invested 400 million dinars and will serve children from all over Serbia, and the accommodation capacity is for 120 children and, of course, will also bring about the economic growth of the village of Bočar, but also for the municipality of Novi Becej. Of course, when it comes to nature and ecology, our mission, that is, the task of both the government and the ministry, and what is the vision and mission of our President Alexander Vukic, is to preserve nature and to leave it to future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8351	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8352	Thank you. I'll be brief. My distinguished colleague Dacic mentioned investments in the protected area of Ovčar Banja, which includes the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Today, I have already mentioned one very important investment for the town of Cachak concerning the rehabilitation and recycling of the non-sanitary dump "Topping" and, in that sense, I would like to inform you that a contract with the contractor for the third phase of the recovery of this dump will be signed in the next few days. It is an investment of 70,000,000 dinars that your Ministry has given to the city of Cačka and we want to thank you for all the support you provide. I think that we had a very constructive debate today and that even if it is the interest of the Serbian state to increase the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources that there is a general consensus that when it comes to small hydropower plants that are not their place in protected areas and that we now finally have a quality legal framework that embraces this area in a comprehensive way and that we no longer have those holes in the law that would allow any way in protected areas of the environment to be threatened. So, once again, I call on all my colleagues to vote tomorrow to support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8353	Thank you. Minister Irena Vujovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8354	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, above all, thank you for this exhaustive discussion, given the importance of this law, certainly also the subject, I always point out that one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is environmental protection and therefore I am extremely pleased when we have a constructive debate, useful advice and guidance. Today we have certainly heard a lot and I will try to bring you closer again and why the amendments and additions of this law are important and what the Ministry is doing, and about many of these topics have touched you. We've also heard some lies, and that's about the Cave, but I'll come back to that later. First of all, what is important is that the amendments and additions of the Nature Protection Act will cause a number of positive effects, notably better control in protected areas and greater involvement of all users in protected areas. This is extremely important in view of the user’s advice to be identified as a working body. It's certainly all implemented with the Arkus Convention. The amendments and additions to this law also prohibit the construction of mini power plants in the first and second categories of protection, and also the process of assessing acceptability is very important because it will contribute to the preservation and protection of the ecological network. When I talk about protected areas, I can't help but think about how the Ministry is co-financed and protected areas, but with 265,000 dinars this year, so that it can adequately take care of exactly the same and the money is intended for these purposes, above all for the controllers, for the setting of pathways, for wooden tables, for the rest of the bench. These funds are also funded and maintained, presentation and promotion of all and areas and then the organisation of educational and research educational classes, therefore, for the purpose of education and raising awareness of the importance, above all, of these spaces. But what is important is that the amendments and additions of this law also provide incentives for units of local self-government, primarily for investment in infrastructure, therefore, in facilities, in plumbing, in sewers and in roads within the areas themselves. That's what's so important. When we talk about nature protection, first of all, of course the Ministry is trying to protect both land, air and water through the competition. What is important today, and with a view to the Water Act, is that the Ministry of Environment is working to set up barriers on rivers to protect rivers from floating packaging waste and we are doing it successfully in Priboj, Prepolje and Novi Varosha, I must stress that. Also, regarding the land recovery contest, we have allocated 333 million dinars to 43 municipalities across Serbia. This is also important, because it will make a direct contribution to the conservation of nature and land, especially when we talk about streams of rivers and when we talk about the recovery of erotic land and rinks. Therefore, this progress will certainly be seen in the contest, i.e. in the contracts that have been signed. All these works should be implemented and projects implemented by 31 November 2021. Also, when we talk about protected areas, we have mentioned an expansion of the field of protection and many of you have commented on this topic. I must inform you that an initiative has been sent to the Nature Protection Institute, to study nature protection and declare two new national parks "Kučaj-Beljanica" and "Stara plinina". It's currently in the process. The institutions are doing a valorisation of these areas, and when the study is delivered to the Ministry, we will approach the declaration of procedures, so to declare national parks. By the end of the year, it was also mentioned here about the area of exceptional qualities, Ovčar Kabler ravu, I must say that it is already working on its expansion, it is also about the expansion of the Special Reserve of Nature Uvac, and three new protected spaces are expected, so nature park "Maljen", "Zeljin" and "Stolov". This is extremely important because the percentage of such areas will increase, so from the current 7.67% we will raise to 8% protected areas. Also, what I have to say and go back to the protected areas, today there have been comments here that I can freely say that they are flat and unverified, and that is, above all, for the cave field, which has been protected since 2015, and from 2016 until today, there have been no military activities in the protection zone. So that's what needs to be emphasized. Military activities carried out on the Cave both before and after the declaration of protection are not organised within the limits of the field of protection. So we can't communicate the way it's spoken today. It is extremely important to stress that no one is in the interest of military or any other activity disrupting the protection zones, and that does not seem to be the case. I still have to point out that when we talk about nature protection, it's extremely important to say that our inspection, our environmental inspection, works hard and I can read you a report on June 30, 2021. So 78 criminal charges, 16 commercial crimes, two criminal charges, 38 business bans. So it's been said here and about the lack of inspectors, whether they're water or organic. I must say that, in the conclusion of the Government, we have the possibility and we are often conducting competitions and the need to increase the number of inspectors in all ministries, but it is also important to stress that everyone is holding on to their responsibilities, but that we work extremely well together on environmental inspection, water inspection and inspection of the Ministry of Energy and Mining because it is necessary and cross-sectoral co-operation to achieve results together and to punish irresponsible individuals. In addition, these controls and inspections carried out by the inspection are necessary in order to make as few violations as possible in the future. We also talked about water protection, or cleaner rivers. It's a subject that's constantly pervading. We also mentioned dumps near the spring and on the banks of the river. Also, I must inform you that a contest has been completed to remove a mini dump right on the banks of the river or along the highway belt or certainly a dump of all who harm the better lives of citizens. Our local self-government units have run for garbage and dumps. Soon we expect a final decision, to see who won the funds, the contract and, above all, the support in co-financing by the Ministry of Environment. I hope that, when we clear many of the quiet spaces, there will be cleaner rivers and public areas, agricultural land and everything else you have run for office, where we can both join forces and all ministries to deal with this problem. I also hope that after that, local self-government units will increase control and control and that these locations will never again be built by a wild dump. I just have to say, I'm extremely glad to have you back in communication this way about protecting the environment. So each of us is aware of the importance. You all point to that and to the municipalities from which you come and the cities. We're trying to raise environmental awareness. We've also heard from many of your colleagues that it's important to talk about it. Also, with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, we have formed a task force that will now be involved in raising awareness in primary and secondary schools, because that is what we have so far estimated to be groups to address. Of course, we have a lot of projects. I'll see you in over 70, 80 units of local self-government since September. So, I'd like to visit all of you together in the cities where you come from all of those projects that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is doing. Thank you again. I hope that in the voting day you will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-13-0.u8355	I thank the Minister and everyone who took part in the work today. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. In order to confirm the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask everyone to insert identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the law from point. From the 3rd to the 7th agenda. According to Article 90(1), they are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Irena Vujovic, Environment Minister Daniela Vazura, State Secretary, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary, Snezana Karanovic, Assistant Finance Minister Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration and Tatjana Stanic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word now, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search of the point. From 3rd to 7th. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
