ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7429	Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. Please insert your cards into the MPs in order to determine the exact number. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented the minutes of the 12th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of those MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 18, 19 and 20 May. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total -149 for – 146 did not vote - three. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 12th session of the First Regular Session in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Assembly of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 240 MPs, in accordance with Article 106(3). The Constitution of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the following is defined as follows: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out: 1 - Joint principled search on the first four points of the agenda, and 2 - Joint Single Search on other points of the agenda. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I ask MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 164, for – 158, did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I just want to remind you that when it's an extraordinary session not to vote on the agenda, because we ourselves have proposed this agenda. Also, there are no additions to the agenda because it is scheduled in an emergency session, only on the pre-proposed agenda points. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Maja Popović, Minister of Justice, Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Ana Tripkovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandar Simovic, Senior Advisor at the Public Debt Administration and Zlatko Petrovic and Vladimir Vins, senior advisers at the Ministry of Justice. I ask MPs' groups if they have not done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would also remind you that today we will be working on our first search, and tomorrow on the second and tomorrow should be the end of the day time to vote. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint search on the first four points of the agenda. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7430	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of today's debate, I would like to present to you the most important solutions containing the bill on the national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism. It is indisputable that today terrorism poses one of the greatest threats to every modern democratic society, including ours. At the same time, it's a threat that has a universal security character all over the world. This is why the fight against terrorism and its prevention is the subject of many documents already brought by international organisations whose member and Republic of Serbia, as well as the subject of significant international legal co-operation in the criminal area. Prevention and the fight against terrorism is one of the foreign-political priorities of the Republic of Serbia to ensure regional and global stability. In view of the need for a common approach to combating terrorism, there is also the need for increasing continued co-operation between countries on a global and regional scale. In addition, the Republic of Serbia as a candidate for EU membership has taken the obligation of its active contribution to participation in European policies in the fight against terrorism, as well as an active contribution to the bilateral plan. In the context of many activities that our country is taking in the fight against terrorism, establishing a national base, it is one of the activities to achieve the general efforts of the Republic of Serbia to improve the anti-terrorism prevention system. In this way, better coordination and efficiency of all state authorities responsible for this fight are ensured. The establishment of a national base is also a realisation of the planned action plan for the negotiating chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security, for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, as well as the implementation of activities under the action plan to prevent and implement a national strategy to prevent and combat terrorism. The proposed legal solutions aim, on the one hand, to regulate in a clear and precise way the process of data feeding in the database, its content, access to data, their use and protection, with particular emphasis on respect for international standards of human rights and freedoms. On the other hand, these solutions aim to provide an effective exchange of data between the state authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism, thus raising the ability of the security system in the Republic of Serbia to respond in a timely and effective manner to any threat. In our legal system, the basis for establishing and forming a national base can be the only law, given that constitutional provisions, not only of the law, can prescribe the obligations and responsibilities of the state authorities, that it is necessary at the same time to ensure full respect for the constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms, as well as for the fact that the processing of personality data must be governed by the law. Therefore, the adoption of this law constitutes a first and basic phase for the establishment of a national base and thus the provision of the necessary appropriate legal solution. The second phase starts after the law is passed and will consist of the introduction into the database of all necessary data to fully establish and function the base. I must also point out that the initial legal text has been prepared by the government's special working group, as well as that it is based on comparative solutions and good European practice in this area. The opening provisions provide for the meaning of the most important terms used in the law, i.e. the meanings of the most important concepts. In addition, it is clear that the basic objective of the law is to establish the basis for an effective exchange of information between authorities responsible for combating terrorism. The central part of the law refers to the establishment and content of a national base. The unique national base consists of a basic platform, hardware and software, located at the BIA and individual service for access to the basic platform. All competent authorities shall be obliged to collect and process data of importance for the base into the national database, and to update them regularly immediately upon knowledge of the facts that are relevant for the update. It is predicted that a single national database contains database data that already exists. It is about data on indexed persons from the UN list of marked persons and other international organisations in which the Republic of Serbia is a member. The list was established under a law governing the restriction on the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. The consolidated list was established under a law governing international restrictive measures as existing bases of competent authorities established under the law, including persons suspected, accused or convicted of the crime of terrorism and associated persons. The national database also indexes exactly the prescribed basic data on natural persons, legal persons, as well as groups or organisations related to terrorism. In addition, there are provisions on a specific way of entering data where there are specific reasons for the protection of the privacy of data or specific reasons for the protection of the interest of persons The authorities that enter and use data from the national database are all the most important state authorities responsible for combating terrorism: the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security and Information Agency, the Military and Security Agency, the Military and Intelligence Agency, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, and all other national authorities and services which have access to the national base necessary to carry out law-of-work in the field of prevention and combating terrorism. This is why the greatest importance of this legislative proposal is that it provides for their full effective cooperation and coordination in conduct in this way. The supervision of law enforcement will be carried out by the Ministry of Justice, the supervision of the processing of personal data of the body which is normally responsible for these matters – the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, and the control of the application of the information security measure by the authorities responsible under the Information Security Act. Finally, I would point out that the adoption of this law represents a significant step, not only for the full establishment of a national base, an even better and more efficient co-operation between state authorities, but for a clear indicator of the activities that the Republic of Serbia is taking to prevent and combat terrorism, as well as its full commitment to actively oppose terrorism at national level, both regional and global level. I would also like to express my hope that following the debate in the principles and details of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will adopt this legislative proposal. You are also facing today the proposals for a law confirming the agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first is the draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the reconciliation of the commitments of JP Serbiagas Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement, for the gasification of the Borsko and Zajecar County and the construction of the Paracin-Boljevac-Rgotin-Negotin-Prahovo divorce pipeline. A 66m-euro credit will be used to gas the Borsko and Zajecar County and build the Paracin-Boljevac-Rgotin-Negotin-Prahovo divorce pipeline. Namely, part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia which is not covered by the natural gas transport system is the area of eastern Serbia that covers part of the Bor County, the town of Bor and the municipality of Negotin and part of Zajecar County, the town of Zaječar, the municipality of Bolec and the municipality of Kljaževac. It's about areas of great potential for economic activities that lack natural gas as energy. There are 210 thousand people living in this area, 106 thousand in the Borski District and 104 thousand people in the Zajecar County area. By building the Paracin-Boljevac-Rgotin-Negotin-Prahovo transport pipeline with separate units for Bor, Zaječar and Književec, with its main regulated stations, there will be conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all settlements and the integration of industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. This will allow natural gas to be used as cheap eco-acceptable fuel easy to use. Using natural gas as fuels will significantly recharge electricity capacity. Then, next on the agenda is the draft law on granting guarantees to the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad to meet the commitments of JP Serbiagas Novi Sad under the long-term credit agreement for the construction of the Leskovac-Vranje divorce pipeline. The 28m-euro loan is intended for the construction of the Leskovac-Vranje gas pipeline. Another region of the Republic of Serbia that is not fully covered by the natural gas transport system is the Pcinski District. It is an undeveloped zone with the needs of large investments in business activities, mostly foreign investors, which lacks natural gas as energy. The completion of the construction of the transport pipeline Leskovac-Vranje will create conditions for the construction of distribution gases in all settlements and the integration of industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. This will allow natural gas to be used as cheap eco-acceptable fuel, easy to use. From Vranj it is possible to supply other municipalities of Pcinski County, Trgovište, Presevo, Bujanovac. The draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intez a.d. Belgrade to meet the commitments of JP Serbiagas Novi Sad under the long-term loan treaty to gasse the Kolubar district and build the Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica divorce pipeline. The 75m-euro credit is intended for the gasification of the Kolubar district and the construction of the Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica divorce pipeline. There are 210 thousand people living in this area, 174 thousand in Kolubar County, 10,000 in Barajev and 26 thousand in Obrenovac. The construction of the gas pipeline section from Valjev to Loznica and the connection with the upcoming pipeline ensure the safety and stability of the supply of all consumers. Dear MPs, as you could hear, you today have agreements that allow us to implement large projects. I am sure that we will have a constructive debate and I hope that in the voting day you will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7431	I would like to thank the proposing representatives, Minister Maji Popovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7432	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today in this set of joint debates in addition to the Law on the Register which concerns the section relating to the security sector, we heard that the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees to the Republic of Serbia in relation to the long-term loans of JP "Srbigas" and on May 32nd, we adopted these proposals, because these proposals are otherwise intended for Serbia's complete gasification and for the construction of a network defined and envisaged and budgeted by the Republic of Serbia. What is important, and we were interested in the committee itself, these are the conditions under which the gasification of these districts is practically carried out, especially when we talk about Borsko and Zaječarski, it is a 66m-euro project and it covers more than 210 000 inhabitants and the possibility of access to the gasification network, for eight years loans with two years of grace periods, in dinar equivalent, and what is important – with a foreign exchange clause, but the payment is three months and the interest rate is 1.7%. When we talk about gasification, also at the OTP Bank, a loan that pulls towards Leskovac-Vranje, but it includes both the Shop and the Bujanovac and Presevo, then we are talking about a 28m-euro loan, because something has already been done in co-operation with Jugorosgas, so the loan is also for eight years, with two years of grace periods and 1.78% interest per year. When it comes to the gasification of the Kolubar district, then we are talking about a 75m-euro loan and also raised 178 to eight years of realisation. What is important to say is that 169m euros in guaranteeing these three practically loans and these three strategic projects for the Republic of Serbia will above all allow the implementation of the fourth package of the Green Energy Directive, which is the so-called Green Energy Directive. The green agenda, then achieving environmental and economic standards, but also discharging Serbia's energy, electricity system, which is what we are actually strengthening our economy and opening up opportunities for the inflow of new foreign direct investment. This is where Serbia gets very much, and this is one process that we are entering, and we think that by supporting these laws to guarantee, we are actually thinking about Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7433	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7434	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Justice Minister with his associates, the fight against terrorism is certainly the struggle of the 21st century and the entire civilization, and only if we join this fight unitedly has hope that there will be certain results. When it comes to today's law, we are creating a single legal framework, a single law where we will unify into a single database all the data on terrorism that has so far been individually and partially distributed into the databases of the Military Intelligence Agency, the VBA and the BIA. Today we are making one framework that will enable, I say, that all these data are united and it is certain that our security services will continue to make a huge contribution at all in the world's fight against terrorism, because, freely I can say, there is almost no case that the security services of a particular country are in such a good way addressed to this problem, given that we have faced directly Islamic terrorism in Bosnia in the 1990s and that we have the opportunity to see today that all those who were still bleeding hands over the Serbian people later committed crimes around the world. We, I say, had then another conflict directly with terrorists, which today is a headache for almost the whole world. It's rare that the state has a chance to have such a one at all, I'd say, a good practice when it comes to this struggle that's been going on for decades. So terrorism has long become a problem of world proportions. It is clear as a day that today's biggest security threat to our country comes from Kosovo and Metohija. Hundreds of terrorists who have fought in Syria, in the Middle East, have returned to the space of Kosovo and Metohija and our services are also about how well-informed and international partners could be informed by our services about who these persons are and, of course, and how we pay attention to what they could do in the future, given that fanatics who participated in world wars where they were members of the Islamic state and we know what we have seen in the Middle East space in recent years. We say -- it is more than clear that Serbia today is the only factor of peace and stability in the Balkans and that only a strong and strong Serbia can be this misery bed away from Europe. It is, therefore, clear to all today in the world. Unfortunately, we can say that certain things that are happening, pressures on our country that are going on unrelentingly, will certainly happen in the coming months. There is great pressure around Kosovo and Metohija, around Republika Srpska. I can say that he was proud every Serbian yesterday while President Aleksandar Vukic defended the position of the Serb people yesterday at the United Nations Security Council. Yesterday was a particularly difficult day for the Serbian people, the shameful verdict of General Mladic is only proof that The Hague tribunal is one political court, a court designed to carry out a history review and that the Serb people are accused of committing crimes, while all others are released. It is a shame that yesterday, both Gotovina and Markac and Haradinaj and Naser Oric and all the victims of the Serb people were able to see the verdict given to Serbian General Ratko Mladic. It is indeed one nonsens, that those who are definitely guilty of all those atrocities that were committed in Kravica, Bratunc and in Kosovo and Metohija, 250,000 expelled Serbs, 2,000 killed in the Storm, none of them welcomed justice, while only one party is tried, one party is accused of genocide. We must continue to fight, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, we cannot affect the world's trends that exist in the world today. They can do whatever they want, and it is up to us to safeguard independence, stability of the Republic of Serbia, to protect our Republic of Serbia, because it is the legate of all the people who fought and died, 20,000 young people gave their lives to the foundations of Republika Srpska, and their leader was General Ratko Mladic, so we were all sad today and yesterday for the fact that we are watching as one side is being audited of history, while the other side is being freed of guilt and that there is no justice for Serbian victims. Once again we say, we must protect our independence, our stability. Only a strong and stable Serbia can be guaranteed that such things will never happen to our people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7435	Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the vice president of the National Assembly of Academymen Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7436	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, I will focus on the 1st point of the agenda, because I believe that the adoption of the law on the national anti-terrorism database is a very important law and a very important step towards the arrangement of not only the database, but I can say, the arrangements of the systemic relationship against terrorism, because what we have so far had, without this database or without an orderly database, although the database will not mean, in itself, the arrangement of the entire system and the program of this fight and the overall action, but it is a very significant and very significant step. This topic makes the very fact that it treats terrorism so directly, and terrorism is definitely one of the most powerful topics of the modern age of the world, especially Western civilizations that includes both ours here and our state and regional space. That is why this topic deserves full attention because it is not one of those more procedural ones that simply needs to be passed just like that, but it is a topic that has strategic importance, but also the possibility of doing a lot through its arrangement, but possibly making a mistake. So terrorism is a subject in itself of exceptional importance, and therefore we MPs are obliged to make a full contribution to this topic. Terrorism is not a novelty in humanity. It has existed since ancient times in various forms, but has now received a certain form because of its appearance and presence, but also because it has received certain colors, so to speak, in its behaviour and function. Terrorism is defined by violence with the intention of intimidation in order to achieve a particular political goal. It has existed before among various political ideologies, but most often extreme. Extreme ideologies are those that represent a suitable environment for the creation of ideas itself regarding the method of combating terrorism and on such ideas extremely radical developments this method. What it is is a kind of newspaper in recent years, perhaps even a few decades, is that terrorism is taking on an ever-increasing dimension of religiousism. It doesn't mean it's a complete newspaper, but it's become dominant. What is extremely important to me is that most often in the media public, and also in the political name of one of the greatest monotheist religions, the religion of Islam, binds itself to terrorism. Unfortunately, this is done by those who opt for terrorist acts and terrorist acts, and by their own name or by their religion are members of Muslims. This is the first blow to Islam itself and to Muslims who, by their teachings and by their determination, do not belong in any way or wish to belong to such orientation. However, despite the fact that certain Muslims are making or committing certain acts of terrorism from moral, cultural and other aspects, we have no basis for calling this terrorism an Islamic terrorism, because we have certain phenomena that terrorist acts act and members of other religious confessions. If it is a Christian, we cannot hear in the media or in the political discourse that it was an act of Christian or Christian terrorism. Or if it's a Jew, Buddhist or someone else, we haven't heard or can't hear in any address or public formulation that this terrorist act is attributed to that faith. So Islam's faith in this form has existed for over 14 centuries. That's why he had the chance to introduce himself. I also dealt with one topic in science, for many years I've been researching it, under the title "The History of Violence", so I counted in a certain study very rich and very large, only some parts I've published, in fact through the modern history of the last 2,000 years, I've counted acts of violence and figures that have been scientifically confirmed and proven by or within certain cultures and civilizations. What's undeniable is that Islamic civilization is very low on the scale when it comes to undeniable numbers, scientifically confirmed figures. Of course, now is not a chance for me to elaborate here, but only one of the kings of Western colonialism has in a short time killed more people in an African country than killed in a system of Islamic civilization over a certain hundred years. We cannot ignore all this, based on this overall, spiritual, ethical and civilizational experience, the presence of Islam for over 1,400 years, because in recent years we have certain people who belong to certain extreme perceptions, it is indisputable, although they are linked to Islam, but they are not part of the primary, classical, recognized, stable, continuous learning that belongs to the absolute majority and Islamic scientific, i.e. learning elites and even Muslims. It cannot be ignored and said, it is simply accepted both in media and political discourse as if it were common and normal to say Islamic terrorism. Islamic terrorism doesn't exist. Terrorism is terrorism, it is an act of violence, and if it is made by a member of Islam, formally, although it is disputed whether a true member of Islam can act violently, whether it can kill children, civilians and so on, because it is absolutely unacceptable from the aspect of Islam. So I want to underline this for the reason that we're actually making some kind of stigma, we're making some kind of target of an entire faith, members of a religion that today counts almost two billion of its members. It's something that's very important, it's not directly related to today's law as to how this base is actually going to affect this, but I want to point out how important it is that once we've done this base, we actually have a certain analysis, a certain classification, but certainly also the database itself, and the very use of that data, because our experience so far, we understand that we didn't have a national database, so that there were certain errors. So it happens to us that people of the Islamic community's significant authority simply get their name out there somewhere on some, I don't know what kind of lists these are, you in the security sector know that better, at border crossings. These people simply cannot pass the border crossing, which will not be held for at least two hours or more, for a certain examination or just waiting to, as they say, check something out. It's about people who are important authorities, officials, the influence of the Islamic community. What I want to believe and hope, that this database, this national database, will contribute to the arrangement of this space, where no official of any particular security service or intelligence service will be able to simply tell someone because they heard on TV that someone is talking about how terrorists have such beards, such pants, I don't know what haircuts. Since we have such performances every day on public information, and then that clerk there says, wait for this menu to meet the conditions and I'll put him there, so let them question him. We are such a practice, such phenomena, which I hope and will remain at the level of exceptions or we will end those exceptions, but I simply cannot draw attention to this. Let's say, a few months ago, on one television with a national signal, two guests, so-called. Professors, so, who are very present on the subject of terrorism, especially when it comes to the ropes of Islam. So they both present such a dangerous, toxic lie, on that day on that television that reads and both confirm it to a leader who is surprised, saying that Muslims by their faith cannot, by their religious teachings, and that they cannot be loyal to a non-majority state. Imagine what a dangerous thesis that is. What a toxic thesis where you are actually making such a gap, such a division of such targetry, such stigmatization, to all Muslims in a country where most are not, in this case and in Serbia itself. When you, as alleged experts, inform the public, the million-dollar auditorium, in which you say that these Muslims, however you are presented, as you behave, they cannot be loyal to the state of Serbia, what is this message, please, to the services, what is this message to the Serbian public? What's an ordinary citizen supposed to think now? That's scandalous. I called the editor and said, "Please schedule a show with these two jerks, with these two idiots, I don't know what to call them, call me and let them tell me in front of you, so I can explain it to them." He said he would, but he never got it again when he announced I'd be on the show. That's terrible! Imagine you, without any sanctions, without any consequences, someone who has alleged PhDs, who teaches at the university, one of them teaches at Belgrade University, in political sciences, so that's how he educates students. These students will become politicians tomorrow, become public figures. Guys, that's a lie! It is a false, fictional, chauvinistic untruth that aims to satanize, which aims to in fact all of our struggles, this our efforts to Muslims, any political workers, intellectual, religious, who in fact want to help to overcome all these historical wounds, disasters, collisions, the problems we had in relation to Orthodox and Muslim populations and beyond in the region, and especially here in Serbia, to overcome, to heal. And there come to you such characters, such profiles, that this is how you are poisoned by the public. So it's a thing that's very dangerous. What exactly are you accomplishing? This sends such a message that all those Muslims who loathe over terrorist acts, who loathe over every form of violence, who belong to both religion and belief that Islam is a religion of peace, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, is Islam by definition of religion of peace, the concept of Islam is from "selam", in Arabic means peace and security, therefore it is in the very definition and name, the basic identification of the very faith itself, and that is something that is the basis. Of course, there are various perceptions, there are uses, of course, there are abuses, but Islam has not been proven for the past 20 years when we have a story about terrorism. He's been on the scene for 1,400 years, and if we're going to talk about practice itself, we've got it. But let's start with theory itself. Examples like this are terrible. What I want to suggest to the competent authorities who will further edit the national database itself and at the end which will be used, okay, we will arrange that database, or we will sort out the way it is formed and used, which is the intensity of this law, but once again it will be the human factor that will decide who will enter that database, what will be written there and who will actually be the subject not only of processing but also of certain other measures. I know it is necessary and we will certainly support today's adoption of this law, because we consider it very important. But we won't be able to improve the fight against terrorism if we stop at it. You see, as truth is not the greatest enemy of lies, truth is the greatest enemy of half truth, justice is not the greatest enemy of injustice, justice is the greatest enemy or much greater enemy of half-justice or mixed justice and injustice, mixed truth and untruth is a bigger problem. Well, that's why it's very important to us that the fight against terrorism and the overall action in this field is professionalized and raised to the highest possible level. But that won't mean we'll just stay at the level of data and the level of work of intelligence or security services, especially when it comes to extremism, when it comes to extreme perceptions based on perceptions, on false perceptions of religion or on intentional abuses of faith. That's a much more spiritual question. Therefore, if the entire anti-terrorism system does not cover measures or actions that will stop poisoning, ideological, religious, quasivers, factional, sectarian, there is actually the main energy, negative, but also the chance that this negative energy by smart action, the broad front is actually being demonstrated and the recruitment space is reduced. That's the whole point. Because if you allow or willfully or intentionally abandon that space, simply for young generations, if you do not have control over certain structures, education, official, unofficial, semi-official, if the state tolerates, it is considered a normal break in the Islamic community, some parts and individuals continue to support it, or what is a blow to the Islamic community in 2007, with consequences to date, which is not only the result of this blow by two Islamic communities, no, the result of this blow is the loss of control over the education of young Muslims, of youth education, of losing control. Until then, we knew exactly where, when, what can be said, from which textbook and how. After that, you lose that control and zero to dozens of different subjects of education, indoctrination, ideologies, and I don't know what else. I won't say - all extreme, but just because you're losing control, just because you don't have a vertical responsibility, you can't be successful in this fight by having formal activities of competent and security services, security services, or other competent services. That is why it is important, once we adopt this database, or adopt this law, that this issue should be thoroughly addressed, from the position of the competent state authorities to simply prevent, or focus on prevention, to reduce the possibility of recruiting extreme ideas that are the basis for various forms of violence, including terrorist acts themselves, or activities, and that is the direction we should go and actually be unique in that front, to realize that violence and crimes of that kind and terrorism themselves are directed against someone specific but they are evil for those against whom they are directed, but also for those in whose name they appear in cultural civilization and any other sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7437	I thank the authorised representative of the MP Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7438	Dear Minister with guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, above all, I would like to thank the Ministry and the Minister really for the agility and desire that some new solutions and the adaptation of our legal system be unified with the European legal system, and that is something that we Social Democrats will always support, because we think that cultural, civilization, we legally belong to this European space, and geographically, but also as I said otherwise. We are facing today a law establishing today a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. The establishment of this base is very important, because it is part of those general measures that our country implements for the first time, prevention and then effective fight against terrorism, and at the same time, as I said at the very beginning, it is one of our tasks and we are practically, these are some of the activities that we have undertaken to do and undertake to do, above all, through an action plan for negotiation chapter 24 or justice, freedom and security, but are part of our plans, i.e. action plan and strategy of our country to fight terrorism, from 2017 to 2021. What's important is that solutions in this law primarily want to edit procedures in a clear way, how data is fed, how data is stored and how data is used. It is crucial to me that all this will be done with an emphasis on respect for international standards of human rights and freedom. It is clear that this is an outstanding question and it is a big question of how to collect and who will be part of this data, but we must as a civil authority, as representatives of citizens, have strong supervision. I am pleased that, in this process itself and the process, the Commissioner for Public Information will also have great importance, that is, its role is very important and it will be another form of control in which these data are collected. The solutions contained in this law aim, as I said, to regulate these procedures, but on the other hand they aim to provide an effective exchange of information between our state authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism and, of course, to raise the ability of our security system to react slowly and effectively in situations that cause or threaten. I'm glad we didn't have, say, a lot of those situations. Absolutely, you'll see, I'll make some research that we belong to a group of countries that are designated as countries with a very low rate or a possibility of terrorism. The fight against terrorism is necessary and unquestionable, but I repeat, it is necessary to stress the need to preserve individual freedom, as well as other top values and liberal democracy. Only in this way will the fight against any form of terrorism be successful. Nearly 250 years ago, Benjamin Frecklen warned that those who give up essential freedoms to reach small and transient security deserve neither freedom nor security. The countries, of course, have the right to fight terrorism, but do not have the right to unlimited freedom in their operations because this raises the whole moral framework within which international laws have been built. Legal and legitimate states have the standards, rules and declarations they have signed and which should be supported, regardless of the enemy, in this case a possible terrorist. In the SDP, we believe that the fight against terrorism requires a combination of three models – the use of politics and diplomacy, the implementation of the legal system and criminal legislation and, on the third hand, the last, the use of police and military forces, or power. It requires avoiding excessive reaction and general repression, and the emphasis is placed on the need for action in the frameworks, of course, of the law. All secret and intelligence services and other institutions and agencies involved in the fight against terrorism should and must be subject to strict control by civil society and elected authorities. Only in this way can the fight against terrorism become successful without danger to our democratic and liberal order. I'd like to draw attention to some of the new tendencies that exist today that have occurred over the past few years, and above all they've gained importance, the acceleration during the pandemic. There's something called a global terrorist index, which shows very clearly that today's extreme right becomes the greatest threat. The number of victims of terrorism in the world has dropped, for the fifth year in a row, but the number of extreme right attacks has increased by 250% to a level that has not been seen in the last 50 years, showing this global index of terrorism since 2020, with the assessment that it is very certain that the pandemic will further increase and boost this trend. In 2019, the number of victims of terrorist attacks fell by 15%, or 59%, respectively, compared to 2014. A survey by the Sydney-based Institute of Economics and Peace suggests that terrorism in the second consecutive year has mostly calmed down in the Middle East and North Africa. In those regions, the smallest number has been killed since 2003, and the pandemic could extend that and further point out. This study analysed trends in global terrorism and was placed and made, as I have already said, a list of countries at risk from terrorism. There are six categories in the ranking list, and the first three places as countries with very high terrorist influence are occupied by Afghanistan, Iraq and Nigeria. A group of 17 countries led by Syria followed, and there are no European countries in the group. In a group of 27 countries, where terrorism has a medium effect are the United States, Russia, Ukraine, France, Great Britain and Greece. Almost all Western Balkan countries, including Serbia, have entered a group of 55 countries where terrorism has a very small effect. It's something that shows statistics and waist. According to the study's author's assessment, a reduction in the number of terrorist attacks can be largely prescribed to reduce territory, i.e. the disappearance of the so-called "terrorist attack". Islamic states, extremist states and descalation of conflict in the Middle East. Today, however, there is a more terrorist attack on the extreme right. There are more in this year than in the last 50 years, and that's the danger I want to point out, that strengthening the right, nationalism, chauvinism is a danger that today can overcome both terrorism and go that way. Also, one of the great delusions is that terrorism affects the countries of the West most. He's the least hit on them. The most affecting countries where conflicts exist. First of all, 90% of terrorism occurs in a context currently under way, for example, in Afghanistan, Syria, Nigeria, Somalia or Yemen and there terrorism has an unsuspecting situation and destroys and does not only cause the loss of life, but indeed material resources and the country's complete infrastructure is erasing and is causing really huge damage, first of all to that space. There is, once again, a concern that the economic consequences caused by the covid could further affect the frequency and form of terrorism, but once again, I stress that the greater danger this hoard could give at an increased rate of extremism that is growing. I want to say further that under this socio-economic pressure, even more people might be alienated from society and think that they are discriminated against and that in this way one of the fears of this study is that there is an explosion of what I said, that the extreme right and people who belong to some extreme ideology and attitudes are the greatest threat in the near future. Of course, there is certainly no Islamic terrorism, but surely there is an Islamophobia in the western part of the earth's pattern today, and Muslims around the world, above all I think of those who mark the middle path, who are moderate, equal and loyal citizens of European countries, are truly experiencing one torture and are in constant fear, nothing is caused, for their life and for their fundamental human rights. Only the meaning of the word “Muslim ” means godly devotion. At the same time, it means loyalty to the state, at the same time to mankind, at the same time to all human ideas and to humanity and in no situation can be associated with any violence. Of course, Islamic doctrine very clearly forbids any violence, and one man's murder is viewed as killing an entire planet. Therefore, I am encouraged, therefore, by mentioning this, to say once again that Islamic fundamentalism does not exist and that, as a threat in this part of Europe, it is a very small threat. I can state a lot of views here, but I'm going to say as the end of this speech and a reference to this subject, a statement by Jaser Arafat, who is in public condemnation, and I'm going to remind you that Jaser Arafat has won the Nobel Peace Prize in one, and he's recognized as a fighter for the rights of the Palestinian people. I must say one of his statements that says - no degree of resistance and no level of despair can ever justify killing innocent civilians, condemning terrorism, condemning the killing of innocent civilians, whether they Palestinians, Israelis, Americans, etc. The attitude of Islam towards murder or suicide is unquestioned, especially by suicide, where it is absolutely unacceptable and from the point of view of God's law, it is very, I say, punishable and forbidden to do something like that. I will also say something about the proposals of the law on giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to banks to meet the commitments of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", which refers to a long-term loan for the gasification of three areas of our country, very important, the Borsko and Zajecar County, then, for the Leskovac divorce pipeline and Vranje and the gasification of the Kolubar County. I'm very glad, and at the end of last year, I asked the Prime Minister directly here and asked the question when will the pipeline pass to Novi Pazar, Tutin, Alexandrovac? She has established to us here and indeed told us that this year's Crucial Theme, in 2021, will be the main theme of solving the dumps, over 3500 dumps that we have in our country, and the gasification of our country and has made a hard promise that a pipeline that from Alexandrovec, through the Kopalnik, will go to Novi Pazar and Tutin, will very quickly enter the realization. So, today, gasification and, in practice, this main step that we're going to take with guarantees towards banking, the gasification of these three areas of our country is very much looking forward to me and I expect very quickly to start building a pipeline that Sandzak is going to gasse, because there are many reasons for that. On February 9th of this year, the Ministry of Environment Protection reached a solution to agree on a study on the environmental assessment of the RG094/2 development pipeline, Aleksandrovac-Kopalnik-Novi Pazar-Tutin, with accompanying facilities. So, as for the documents, here, and consent, it's practically over and I expect a guarantee like this to be found very quickly in front of us, which is both the prime minister's promise and the pipeline that will lead to Novi Pazar. Of course, what makes me happy is that this government has decided to fight against and try to solve the problems we have in the environment, that the less we use fossil fuels, which are the main pollutants, and to turn to healthy energy, solar panels, then to use gas and to eliminate, practically, the lubricating source in most of the cities for these local heat. It's something that we Social Democrats are going to support in a warm way. So, I announce that in the voting day, we will support all the laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7439	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group. The word is made by the president of the JS parliamentary group, MP Dragan Markovic Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7440	The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the JS in the voting day will vote for the proposed laws that are on the agenda today. From 1999 to 1999, however, we had this war terrorism, where the greatest damage was suffered by Serbs, where they lived, and since 1999 we have economic terrorism and political terrorism. Economic terrorism began first at the Croatian-Serbian border, where Croatians themselves raised taxes on goods exported from Serbia to Croatia, and even for goods that travel through Croatia to another country. They couldn't do it themselves at the time, as a new EU member. They are at that moment, and today, a local community in the EU. So they had the support of some great force, not some, but several, from the EU, certainly and America. We waited a long time and caused us great economic damage. We've waited a long time for those measures to be lifted, which are not in any agreement. Economic terrorism is also what happened when it comes to the Serbian territory of Kosovo and Metohija, that they have raised 100% of the fees on goods leaving Serbia to Kosovo and Metohija, and that in no agreement, by Resolution 1244, via the SAA, through the Brussels Agreement, it does not appear that they had the right to increase our taxes and cause great damage to Serbia economically. We must fight alone, as the president of the Republic of Serbia fought with members of the Security Council yesterday and use arguments and facts, and they are on the Serbian side. Justice in recent years, up to seven years ago, did not exist in international law when it comes to Serbia. It was political decisions. But when Hashim Thaci was found in The Hague tribunal, it eased what is called fear in Serbia that the UN tribunal was made only for the Serbs and the Serb people and I don't know why Thaci was not also tried there and found in that court and in that prison, but a special court in The Hague for the Kosovo Albanians. And that all those who are under some command responsibility, in some way, as interpreted by those others who have formed the International Court of Justice, that only Serbs are responsible for everything that has happened, and that those who are the challengers of the wars, are freed or released, such as Ante Gotovina was sentenced to 23 years in prison, and we know how many civilians died in the Storm, to be released later. What happened in the meantime? Who are these witnesses who say, "Well, it's not Ante Gotovina, it's not March, it's someone who's the third?" The great forces said – they will be freed, as Naser Oric was released, as Haradinaj was released. Haradinaj was released because all those witnesses who were to testify were no longer alive and there were no witnesses against him. Yesterday's verdict by Ratko Mladic says that only Serbs were tried in The Hague and such a verdict was expected, because it is a political court, not a court of justice, and that all those who were once judges are now lawyers and defences of Kosovo Albanians, and that international law is not used at all to say – well, at that time it was different, and as far as I know, international law has not changed since then. When I was in America at the inauguration of Donald Trump, I had a meeting with Steven Mero, former Deputy Director of the CIA, and I asked him exactly how extremists are those who kill Serbs at KIM, and terrorists are in Paris and, I don't know, in another country. He told me - those who work for us are not terrorists. This means that everything that has happened in both economic and financial terms begins from that great country. That the personal changes of President of the United States have not changed global policy towards Serbia and we need to know that and understand that. As the first international representative, Odalovic knows best, was Bernard Kouchner in Kosovo and we said only to leave Bernard Kouchner, then the Hackerup comes or I don't already know what his name is, is that so, which is ten times worse. So it's not about personal change, it's about what a global policy is towards Serbia and territory that is an integral part of Serbia. And what do they ask of us? That something we say isn't ours anymore, that we sign what's ours to be yours from tomorrow. Where in the world can this and by what right, can international, Anglo-Saxon or Serbian law, be applied? We fight verbally, with arguments and facts, which is good. Serbia must never war again, and what is important for Serbia is that Serbia respects and respects itself in international relations, not as a military force, but as an economically stable state. When you're economically strong, no one can blackmail you. When you have what's called basics, when you're not over-indebted by the head of the population, then you're on your own, you make your own decisions. It was just last night that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic showed it, where he even got a replica to tell that BiH representative, who spoke as if there were a decision by three members of the presidency, without consensus no decision can be made in BiH, where Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs have made one decision, and that he was reading something of his or her own on the orders of this son from that war criminal who died, Izetbegovic, Bakir. The people, both Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian, the ordinary people are not to argue, are not to fight, cannot forget what it was, but we must live, to use this geographical position, mutually, to cooperate economically and if we did some survey with ordinary people, I am sure that at least 70% of ordinary people, three peoples, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs living outside Serbia's territory, the Republic of Serbia said - let's live together again. Politics is fighting people. That political terrorism. For example, in Serbia, we have political terrorism, you as a lawyer and as, not because you're a minister, but I've been asking a little bit about your biography, you have a very good biography and a good CV. How can some political parties undermine the national interest of the state, such as the Freedom and Justice Party? What freedom? He says, the threatened freedom of Dragan Gilas to beat a police officer when he stops and says, "I'll take you off when I get there, to beat my wife and father for not paying for the alimony, what a simple man, a farmer, pays for, when he's separated from his wife." And he goes to the European Parliament and says, "I'm at risk of freedom." What kind of freedom are you in danger of? That you can't get in with motor saws in RTS, that you're pulling signs across the streets of the city of Belgrade, what are you? A traffic engineer? You're a millionaire, a thief one, destroying Serbia and the Serbian national issue. Madam Minister, we must have laws. When someone lies, which is Serbia's interest, that no chapter was opened last year, and we respected all the international obligations, and even said, "Here, we ask that the choice of judges be different, we change the Constitution because of them, not because of us, what will Europe tell us?" So let's ask Europe what you'd do if you had someone on account of 15,000 euros in 2000, and today there are 600 and some thousands all over the world, 600 and some million euros. I ask you, Madam Minister, why wasn't the official duty of the trial of Dragan Gilas, who inflicted physical injuries on his father-in-law and beat his wife in front of underage children? Here, I filed as a physical person, not as a politician, a plea against Dragan Gilas. They have now created a Women's Protection Association in Serbia, and some of them have begun to visit Serbia, which is on the payroll, and the Association of Ivo Gilas should be established, to protect it from violent, criminal, thief and lunatics who are in that freedom and justice, as it is called. And another one with him, which is a political dwarf in both popularity and visual, who spent Serbian money on charter flights for himself, hotel rooms, etc., without doing anything good for Serbia. Here, Ivica Dacic was in Moscow and went to St. Petersburg by train, by train, and would Vuk Jeremic take the train and his Dragan Gilas, freedom and justice? Now we are silent, and we have not opened 18 chapters because of them, because they are constantly making an ugly picture of Serbia. I will write, although it was the government's job, next week every embassy will get a CV that is Dragan Djilas, who is Vuk Jeremic, what they did and whose interests they represent. All right, they have some popularity, but find one woman who gets up in the morning picks someone off the list they're going to attack, muddle him, and what's ugly about asking – Gilas, tell me if you've earned that money honestly, and if you've earned it honestly, what you've sent to some other countries, or passed on and whether you've paid taxes. As of tomorrow, he came after me with lies and imaginary witnesses and victims. I don't matter. I was talking about political terrorism and earlier years, that it was the interest of Serbia. We must pass the law that whoever lies about Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, not only about Serbian nationality, about Serbian citizens, must have responsibility in front of our judicial, judicial authorities. Do you know how many concessions there have been for us to be on a European path? I used to say that. We have candidate status for EU accession candidate, and now we are a candidate. How many chapters have we closed, and what are these chapters? Are these chapters of interest for Serbia and Serbian citizens? No, they're not. I'm asking you as a lawyer to raise that question. It's a betrayal for individuals' personal interests. It used to be a law - abuse of office, so it was abolished, right? It's a felony, not a law. We must bring, because these, they will never gain citizens' trust, and in order to regain power, they will not choose words and choose something to invent, to do harm to Serbia. You see, there's no law of slander. I sued everyone individually, but yet I'm irrelevant, and they didn't file charges against me because they're lying, you understand. Well, when you're supplementing that law, no one can say, I don't know, and there's no material evidence, that the brother of a private minister who's in office before the minister does any work. So you can kill your brothers and sisters and everything. So, where the hell is your brother? So, how many of your brothers have flats? So, what's your brother, what did he produce? Bitcoin, what, so no one knows? Well, you know the same thing, who's got those machines, how much he digs, what he digs up, etc. So this law is good when it comes to terrorism, but we must also put in that protection economic, Serbian, Serbian citizens and that political protection, political terrorism. It used to be called foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors. Now all domestic, all domestic, and money on the side. I haven't thought about what it's called yet, because I'm not getting ready for a speech, you know. When I came in today, I asked Zika what's on the agenda. I'm a man of my life and I follow all the events. Watch out, how many Serbs have been delivered to The Hague? Now they make it up, they want Radet and Jojic? Make sure it's not. Why? Because they were reading some file and they saw this witness who changed his testimony three times. Well, this country has some laws, too, and this country has to respect its laws. So you know, because of these, uh, freedoms and justice, and what's it called, from that political dwarf party, people? If it's a folk party, then I'm a 30-year-old married boy. People's party? Well, why don't you do something in the name of the people, so do something, tell me here we sent someone, ran a country, made a donation. I have now led 600 people, 500 of them doctors in Greece, and I have been given the consent of Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic. I've secured the donors. Where are their donors? How many did they rule? It's known, in Seattle, in Switzerland, in Mauritius, etc. Then I called them to go to the duel, and to ask them all, not just about my case. This mercenary of his, the most paid worker and this bully refused. I say, you said no, okay, let's do the polygraph, me first, Gilas and the mercenaries and they said no. So they don't recognise anything in this country, or institutions, just admit what they say and ask for protection from some countries that will never change their attitude towards Serbia. We can't be angry with Germany or France or Italy because they won't admit it, or they won't withdraw recognition of KIM independence, because then they can't justify NATO aggression, they bombed us for Rack. What this billionaire, the bully didn't raise the question to say - we were bombed in 1999 for Rack, and there's no Racak standing in any indictment. Isn't that right, Minister? Wait, so ask your friends. What are you doing? You're sharing money with them? You know what, when a man lives with that much money in his house, then you can't be normal in his head. Every morning you open up, do you have money standing there, that someone didn't steal it from you and hide it from you, and that's how much money and a man with money I am. Sometimes it's not worth it, you can have whatever you want, if you don't have what's called a family. It's the meaning of life, not every month you get married and all those women you've married walk away from you. You know what one said – I thought you were a believer. What's it look like? Are you a believer? It says yes. Well, I thought you'd give a little money and you wouldn't give a penny. Do you understand? He meant in a literal sense whether he was a believer of Orthodox faith or others. Time. I could talk about what my neighbor would say for a week. There's the same man who died, God rest his soul, I'm done. His name was Chokorac, a Serb host, and he had a mill, etc. And he calls me, where are you, to come to you and tell you a story. I say, "Come immediately and he comes and says, "I better not tell you anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7441	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7442	In any case, I think it is necessary for us in the legislative framework to implement certain provisions that will force political actors to respect the truth, to speak the truth, not only to serve lies. We will find some way not to be – we introduce verbal delinquencies etc., that people who tell lies, a flagrant lie that is generally known to be a lie simply corresponds to any financial one. We'll see if it's possible and criminal, given that we'll be changing both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. So it's going to be one of the topics to think about. It's just impossible for you to tell such lies about a particular person, whether it's a political, politically active person or any other person, and that you have no consequence of it. I don't think that's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7443	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS Group "Tri P", MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7444	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, over the past few decades, we the elderly have had the opportunity to see for ourselves the expansion of international terrorism and its misdeeds. Even those younger with a few clicks on the Internet can see the fearsome incentives for the destruction of the World Trade Center in New York, but also the most painful liquidation of people by the various terrorist groups. Terrorism and NATO missile force on May 1st, 1999, when in the middle of the day at 13pm and 50 minutes, the bus "Nish Express" crossed the bridge in Lužana near Podujev. Part of the bus fell into the river, and part of it stayed on the bridge. 46 people of Serbian and Albanian nationality died. Among them were fourteen children. We all wonder what these people have done to be terrorized in this way, especially these fourteen children who have lost their lives in those years? In this part, I cannot help but mention a terrorist attack on a passenger train in the Greek ravine on April 12th 1999 that also carried out NATO forces on the second day of Easter. The attack doesn't know the exact number of deaths, but 13 bodies were found at the scene, and one number was reported missing assuming they were on the train. What to say about terrorism without mentioning a terrorist attack on the Nis Express bus near the Podujev on the Master's Road Nis-Pristina, which took place on 16 February 2001 in the presence of international forces accompanied by KFOR forces when 12 people died in the explosion of the mines and 43 people were injured. The bus mostly included women and children who went to visit already destroyed cemetery by Albanian terrorists on the occasion of suffocation. All this tells us that international terrorism has long become one great global evil, a real criminal hydra that knows no scruples, nor admits, and far and easily exceeds the limits of any single state in the modern world. That is why international co-operation and Serbia's involvement in these processes are necessary. In this area, it is absolutely necessary to monitor all modern legal solutions without delay and as soon as possible to achieve maximum co-operation between all states and their authorities in the fight against and eradication of this phenomenon. One tool in this fight should also be today's draft law on a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. This law should create a legal basis for the establishment of a national database, which would serve to further and more efficient the work of state authorities in this field. In that sense, as the bearer of this fight in the law are to identify the BIA, the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, as well as the Republic Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, as well as the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. In this respect, the law provides for one restrictive approach by prescribing the basic rule that only these authorities and their members will in principle have access to the planned database, but that other authorities will be able to use it, if the need arises, when it is committed to the most serious criminal acts, or if it threatens to endanger human lives or property of high values and proportions, with the prior approval of these bodies. Access to this regret base will be run in software and hardware by the BIA only has a limited number of persons employed in these bodies and those who have received certificates for access to classified information. I believe that this is a correct solution, given the specificity of this matter and the very data that should remain known as possible within a narrow circle of people, so as not to leak that information, which would result in their logical demeanor. As far as the data itself is concerned, the list will also include information collected from several sources, starting with domestic databases based on other regulations, but also foreign databases, or a list of United Nations and other international organisations, and this is about classic data registries, such as names, last names, birth dates, place and degree of participation in links in terrorist activities, which is a very important data. In order to improve data protection, it is also envisaged that, in certain cases, information can not even be examined by automation, but only automatically informs the authority that entered that data into the database, in order to obtain the requested data through it. In today's debate, there are also several other laws. They concern the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for three important infrastructure projects, this time from the energy area, or gasification. In this area, lately our country has achieved significant results, which is best witnessed by the fact that at the beginning of this year we have managed to complete the construction of a masteral and European pipeline on our territory and that we can now calmly wait for the rest of the countries to complete the work on their territory, so that our country, by finally releasing in the full work of this mega-project, begins to achieve significant benefits, from getting another connection to the global distribution network, by supplying this energy, to significant savings at the price of gas, because we will now receive it at some lower price, with the possibility of charging revenues on the basis of transit from other countries. According to this venture, our country is going and implementing the domestic gas pipeline network and this is for every praise, if it is known that gas belongs to the cheapest and most economical energies. On the other hand, it must be objective and admit that the construction of that network in our Republic has so far not been on the level that is objectively needed for citizens and businesses, and that pipeline network itself has not been evenly distributed. In fact, if you look at the gas coverage map, you can clearly see that this network in Vojvodina, even though it is so relatively solid, but that south of Sava and Danube it is very rare, it covers only the most important directions, and not all of them, since, for example, in the south, the pipeline only reached behind Leskovec, and that even many district centres are not connected to the network at all, which should certainly be further expanded. That's exactly the problem they're treating today's bill of law. It is the laws that the Republic of Serbia gives its guarantee that it will settle long-term loans to JP "Srbigas" for the construction of the pipeline in three important directions: Paracin-Zaječar-Prahovo, Leskovac-Vranje and Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica. I don't think I have to explain how important it is for these directions to be completed as soon as possible. They are connected to the gas network by almost all remaining district seats that have so far had no gas, giving an additional impulse to their economic development, as they will have cheap energy as a new important advantage for industrial development. On the other hand, the gradual gasification of these cities will profit in another, no less significant way to reduce the aero-contaminants by shutting down industrial energy to coal and lubricating, and to reduce the number of individual household heating bars. The amount for which the state will provide guarantees, up to 169m dollars for all three infrastructure projects, totaling up to an interest rate of 1.8%. We believe that this is not an excessive amount and that it will be paid multiplely through indirect and direct users. And those places, and the whole country will have these projects. Although this may not be in the first place when such projects are being created, I would like to stress that they will allow the gas pipeline network to be connected to those potential users in smaller cities, so why not in individual villages, if there is enough interest, which could also bring one additional benefit to development and what should be done by timely informing the population and explaining the potential benefit of joining the pipeline network. What I would end up adding is that, besides these projects, we also have to pay great attention to the rapid completion of the construction of the Nish-Pirot-Bulgarian pipeline, which will further strengthen this very important natural axis of our country's overall development, which would result in another gas connection with abroad and thus be further ensured from possible shortages, instability in the market or in the haematrium. That's where the work started a few months ago. Certain financial agreements have been signed in the previous days, and I have no doubt that this pipeline step will also be completed within two years. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS Group - 3P will give its support in the voting day for their adoption. Also, the PUPS-3P parliamentary group will support other bills and solutions discussed at this session and vote in favour in the voting day. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7445	I thank the authorised representative of the PUPS Group - 3P. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7446	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would agree, good laws and good legal proposals today before us and first a few words on the draft law on the national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism. Now terrorism is, unfortunately, the most serious threat to global peace and there is hardly a country in the world today that does not consider this threat as a national protection against terrorism. This requires the nature of terrorism, which is a multidimensional, political and social phenomenon. Terrorism is by definition a complex form of organised, group, individual or institutional political violence that is recognised by frightening physical, psychological methods, political struggles to achieve terrorist political or social goals. It's exactly the kind of terrorism that makes big security problems and security risks. On the other hand, terrorism due to social causes and consequences can also be seen as a serious social deviation, as it endangers the unsuspecting social and human values, and these are the lives of people, freedom, property, as well as the social and political system of a state. That is why, apart from war, terrorism is the most difficult form of affecting human lives and national security of the states. Today in the era of global integration of the world to all kinds of traffic-related communications through electronics, terrorism is becoming transnational and I would say a global security challenge, above all, that exceeds the frameworks of states, regions and even continents. It is precisely because of this nature of terrorism that there must be a global response to this, by humanity, a dangerous phenomenon that constantly adapts, conceals or transforms into different forms. This global response the world is trying to formulate through world and regional forms of co-operation, as well as through global and national strategic documents and appropriate legal frameworks. The fight against terrorism in the Republic of Serbia has been regulated to remind the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to remind myself that the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code adopted by this very National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, add to the members to determine the participation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in war or armed conflict in a foreign country and the organisation of participation in war or armed conflict in another country, and the sentence of prison is prescribed for this. This sanctions the participation of our citizens in international terrorist and other groups. Then, our legal framework is also the Law on the fight against organised crime, the Law on the fight against high-tech crime, and above all as a roof and law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Republic of Serbia recognises the universal character of the phenomenon of terrorism and extremism and the necessity of continued and broad co-operation between countries in order to establish, above all, a common approach and in this sense, I believe that the UN, whose Serbia is also a member, and a key and global forum for an active arrangement on this plan. Serbia also gives its support for anti-terrorism as a signator of a number of conventions that regulate the fight against terrorism, particularly at international level. Serbia also supports the implementation and implementation of the principles of the UN's global anti-terrorism strategy. Serbia understands the threat of terrorism well, because it has been on its own since the mid-90s, I will visit you at the target of terrorist paramilitary organisations such as the KLA, which is formed for the violent secession of southern Serbia's KIM district from Serbia and its belonging to Albania. The organisation in KIM only committed 1,845 armed attacks on police and on citizens of all nationalities, particularly Serbs, from 1995 to 1998, before NATO aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There were 745 attacks on civilians and their property. In these terrorist attacks, 364 people were killed, including 122 police officers and 242 civilians with KIM, and 97 Albanians who were not on the side of terrorists. To mention the massacre in Klecka on Radonjski Lake, in Orahovac. During this period, about 1,100 terrorist attacks were carried out on police and police facilities. The analysis of all the terrorist acts that the UCK has done at KIM during and after NATO aggression would take a really long time. I will only mention the "Yellow House" in which in 1999 Serbs and other kidnapped non-Albanians were removed from the Western trade. Just knowing the nature and consequences of terrorism, Serbia is actively involved in the world's flows of uncompromising fight against terrorism, fear and weapons and the way to achieve political goals. Terrorism requires safe sources of funding that cannot be legal and is therefore closely linked to money laundering, drug trafficking, weapons, human organs, white slavery and other illegal trade. It is Serbia, through the draft law we are talking about today, that creates a legal framework for the establishment of a national database on terrorists and terrorist organisations, a law that is in line with the National Strategy for Prevention and Combating Terrorism between 2017 and 2021 and an action plan for its implementation. The strategy aims to protect the Republic of Serbia from terrorist threats to its citizens, values and interests while supporting international efforts to combat terrorism. It is important to say that even before the creation of the National Strategy in 2017, a working group was formed on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice to establish a national database for the fight against terrorism. The establishment of a national anti-terrorism database will ensure an effective exchange of data and information between the national authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism in the Republic of Serbia, all for the purpose of preventing terrorism, timely detection and documenting terrorist activities and prosecution. The establishment of this database is a planned and necessary activity in the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 24 - Justice, Freedom and Security. The fight against terrorism is highly positioned on the EU agenda, and Member States and candidate countries are required to comply with their standards with EU standards and actively participate in the prevention of terrorist attacks, as well as to prevent terrorist financing and exchange of information among terrorist organisations. The national base will contain information about terrorists, terrorist organizations. The database will include data on natural persons, legal persons, as well as groups and organisations connected to terrorism in Serbia's territory in any way. It's of great importance and importance. I believe that the fight against terrorism and violent extremism is impossible without international co-operation, which includes, among other things, an effective exchange of operational data. Our country's co-operation with the world and EU countries is through Interpol, through Europe, as well as with other countries with which it has bilateral agreements in this area. I would like to point out that through participation in multinational operations, as a credible partner, the Republic of Serbia shares responsibility and provides its contribution to the preservation of peace and security. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is also the one who decides on the participation of members of the army and police of the Republic of Serbia in international peace operations. In particular, I would like to stress that we are in favour of a common, comprehensive and united approach to the challenges that countries of the world face, because that is the best way to protect the interests of individual countries. Of course, this proposal will have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. What I want to say in the follow-up to today's presentation, and I think I have quite enough time, is about yesterday's shameful verdict, and I have to mention that since the representatives of the Justice Department are here. Yesterday is one of the most painful in the recent history of the Serbian people. Yesterday, The Hague tribunal issued a verdict to Ratko Mladic whose sin was only to defend his people. He is charged in The Hague with war crimes and genocide. Everyone who knows each other well enough about the international right that there was no law in this judgment. So we ask, do the judges of the UN tribunal know what law and justice is, do they know what genocide is? Do they have an answer to why no one but the Serbs in front of that court answered? The verdict is a great shame for international law and international institutions, which unfortunately have seen Serbs as the only culprits since the first days of Yugoslavia's collapse. It's not this so-called. There were not enough three and a half million documents that challenged General Mladic's indictment, written in advance at a well-known model and at any cost. It was obviously important for the court to humiliate Serbia completely, to accuse them of fabricated genocide. They know how many Serbs were imprisoned in The Hague and how many others. Whose interests are these judgments. Unfortunately, we are accused by those who know very well that during their history, Serbs have always defended themselves and others, including them from the enemy. Serbia has never waged conquest wars. Isn't the verdict to General Mladic just harsh and inadmissible replacement of the thesis to forget the genocide that was systematically committed just over the Serbian people during the 20th century? It was Jasenovac, but also NATO bombing an innocent Serb people. Serbia is a country dedicated to the European path, but will never accept the double arches as justice. It's embarrassing both for the Hague prosecutors and for the Hague judges, justice lies in the topless, and time will show. Mr. Brammertz says he actually wants to ban us from telling Serbia that a crime has been committed, not genocide. I want to remind you, this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the only one in the region that has adopted the Resolution on Srebrenica and has thus respected its both moral and international commitment and said very clearly – is a crime committed, we express our condolences to families, we want well-intentioned neighbourly relations and that these things never happen again. And, here, I first say today, and Mr. Brammertz let him do what he has to do, no crime committed, no genocide committed, let him look at the 1946 Convention and Resolution. On the other hand, The Hague did his job. What was the objective of The Hague? Slobodan Milosevic, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic. They're winners. That was the goal and to embarrass Serbia in this way, and the basic task of The Hague, you correct me, I know you can't speak, but correct me if I'm wrong, was to contribute to reconciliation in the region. Right? It's a basic task in front of the UN Security Council. The Hague did not contribute to reconciliation in the region, it deepened and tightened relations in the region. Let's not talk about how Serbia went through all this. How many years have Serbs been sentenced in The Hague? How sad are those who did not wait for the verdict, who died during the trial? So justice and justice are not something the UN tribunal has been run, it has condemned Serbia in advance for everything that has happened in the former SFRY's space. There's no international right to be selective, so someone less, someone more, so double standards, for someone, don't apply. So he did not respect justice and justice, nor did he manage it, nor did he fulfill the task set up by the UN Security Council. On the contrary, it made things worse. Not to talk about exercising the right for numerous Serbian victims in The Hague. I'll just say one word - grotesque, and that word was used by Fausto Pokar, he's the president of the appeal council in the case of Gotovina and Markac and she speaks quite enough. Both the Serbian public and the international public must know the consequences of such decisions, must know the greatness and amnesty of such decisions as represent a crime, in order not to repeat it in the period ahead. When they speak of accusations, why was the “yellow house ” never an integral part of any indictment? Did she exist or didn't exist? I just mentioned it. Now a lawyer named Gashi has appeared in Pristina to sue Dick Marty for staying in some area illegally, illegally. Well, the man didn't show up here. You have a statement by Vukcevic, who was a war crimes prosecutor, who says very precisely and clearly – Dick Marti never stayed there, and we are not allowed to see if there are bodies there. So much, ladies and gentlemen, about The Hague tribunal, about respecting international law, about how much they respected law and justice. The complaints filed, which we expected Serbia to disrespect for failing to deliver to God representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. Well, Serbia respects its laws. A senior court in Belgrade has made it clear that conditions have not been met. I want to remind you of something, Carla del Ponte, you correct me if I'm wrong, when she left she had her own portfolio, it seems to me that she was Florence Artman, then she gave away all the papers from The Hague tribunal and went to France. Is that what happened? Well, why didn't they deliver it to The Hague? So, according to little Serbia, she can do anything, because she's up front accused of everything, and the big one can't do anything. I would like to thank, on behalf of the Serb people, for the dignity and honor of Judge Niaba of Zambia, who yesterday in The Hague tribunal has singled out her opinion by believing that justice and justice should be the only measure and only faith of the judges. Let me get back to the subject. So, when we talk about the proposals for the three laws on the granting of a guarantee for loans to "Srbigas", I would point out that these proposals provide the means for the implementation of three infrastructure projects from the energy sector that are scheduled to build pipelines in Borsko, Zajecarska, Kolubarski, Pcinjska district, which is the continuation of Serbia's strategic gasification project. The state provides guarantees to two domestic business banks that a public company, a state-owned company, is in charge of these projects, so it can be said that they are development loans. Gasification has been defined as a strategic project which, apart from environmental protection, needs to ensure the safe supply of citizens with energy and create conditions for attracting foreign investors, because it is clean and cheap energy, but also about the energy transition process that needs to replace classic energy sources, primarily coal that is a major air pollutant. If we know that in the Republic of Serbia over a million households use individual devices on solid heating fuels in their homes, then the expected effect of these investments is clear, as it would significantly reduce the first individual deposits to a significant extent, resulting in a reduction in environmental pollution by using solid energy. As someone who comes from Valjev, I will put the accent on the gasification of the Kolubar district, as a local patriot first of all, that is, to build a development pipeline on the Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica route, which requires 75m euros. The Colubary County has very much expressed problems with air pollution. The public is regularly informed about this, especially during the heating season. The air in Valjevo, according to official data, is categorized in the third category, i.e. as a health hazard. The causes of poor air quality in Valjev are generally known, and the pipeline will provide a better future for Valjev, clean air and a healthy environment, but I believe there will also be a motive for attracting new investments. I will also remind this occasion that the state is building a fast traffic station and Verak-Lajkovac, which will connect Valjevo with the highway "Milos Veliki". Construction of a fast traffic station is a strategically important project that will allow Valjev to open towards the rest of Serbia, not only Valjev, but throughout Western Serbia, that part of Western Serbia. The German company, world leader in scale production, also comes to Valjevo. A new German investor factory worth 33m euros will have 305 employees. All of this, building a fast traffic station, opening new factories, gasification will allow new development chances for Valjevo, making Valjevo more interesting as a new investment attractive destination. When it comes to the other two draft laws to cover the cost of construction of pipelines in the Paracina area, Bolec, Rogotina, Negotin, Prahovo needs 66m euros, while 28m euros will be allocated for the construction of a section of the development pipeline between Leskovac and Vranja. These projects will create conditions for the use of natural gas as cheap, eco-friendly fuel, easy to use, which will significantly relieve existing energy capacity. Kolubarski, Pcinjski, Borski and Zaječar County are areas of great potential for business activities that are currently lacking in real energy and we are doing so by adopting such a legal proposal. So gasification should create conditions for attracting foreign investors in these areas, because foreigners bypass them precisely because of the lack of this cheap and clean energy. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support all legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7447	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Next People's Messenger, Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7448	The Honored Chairman, the minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" will support the proposed laws on the agenda today. When it comes to the draft laws granting guarantees from the Republic of Serbia to build a pipeline, i.e. gasification, all I want to say is that the undisputed importance of gasification for economic development and investment is to improve the quality of life of people, to develop local communities and to protect the environment. My colleagues used to say a lot about the importance of gasification. I would draw attention to the proposal for a law on a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. One of the most difficult modern security challenges is certainly terrorism, which has a local, regional and global dimension. International terrorism is cross-border, poses a common danger to many countries and therefore requires concerted common responses. Serbia recognised terrorism as an important security challenge and defined an appropriate legal and security strategy to fight terrorist threats, to prevent terrorist action and sanction those responsible for endangering general security by planning, preparing or implementing terrorist acts. The bill on a national database to prevent and combat terrorism is a missing link in our country's counter-terrorism strategy and a necessary mechanism for co-operation with other countries in the plan to counter an international terrorist threat. Serbia and its citizens have been exposed to the brutal criminal terrorist activity of the so-called "Current". Kosovo Liberation Army in Kosovo and Metohija, but also so-called Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac's Liberation Army in southern central Serbia. The terrorist threat whose ideological basis is the Albanian nationalism is still present today, through elements of these terrorist formations that are present in a different form. That's why it's important that the carriers of these terrorist threats be identified, and they already have, and entered into the national database. It's about terrorists who were members of the so-called The Kosovo Liberation Army, which has been subject to timely criminal charges, which have been prosecuted or convicted. The national database will also record persons who are carrying terrorist threats and acts based on religious fundamentalism. The threats are mainly brought by radical Islamic groups, including members of jihadist and terrorist international groups. Their presence is expressed in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in some other areas of central Serbia. It has been seen in particular that the activities of these groups strongly support financial and other ways, are crucially supported by a number of Islamic, allegedly humanitarian organisations, which are often just a front for the illegal action that is being created, stimulated and implemented by terrorist threats. The information that has been recruited in Kosovo and Metohija and has joined terrorist groups, such as Alkaida, the Islamic State and others, about 500 religiously radicalized extremists, as well as dozens of extremists from central Serbia, primarily from the Raško-Polim area, as well as thousands from neighbouring countries, suggests a high level of terrorist threat that these religiously radicalised extremist groups and individuals have for the safety of citizens in the Republic of Serbia and the institutions themselves. To successfully oppose the state, this terrorist threat is crucial for them to be recorded in the national database, for their operation to be under constant supervision and for measures to be taken in time to prevent possible acts of violence by these terrorist threat carriers. The third group of terrorist threat carriers to be found in the national database are foreign citizens who have identified and registered services and police from other countries and international police organisations such as Interpol and Europol as international terrorists. To effectively defend Serbia from international terrorist threats, co-operation with other countries that have relevant knowledge is necessary, as other countries need co-operation with Serbia on the plan. The fourth group of terrorist threat carriers to be found in the national database are individuals who were or are still members of international terrorist groups, and have come to Serbia as legal or illegal migrants, in a powerful migrant wave that has passed through Serbia. In recent years, there have been such individuals. They have been identified, all necessary activities have been taken to prevent possible terrorist activity and endanger the security of citizens and institutions. This law will allow the establishment of a single national database that will contain, i.e. a pool of already existing, or stored data in security databases and national authorities, as well as newly collected data. This is a very important step towards establishing full and effective co-operation between competent state authorities in countering terrorist threats and actions. The proposed law will simplify the co-operation of state authorities, speed it up and make it more efficient. Now there will be data available at all times to state authorities that are in charge of the systemic response to terrorist threats, namely: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security-Intelligence Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency, the Military Security Agency, the Money Laundering Directorate, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. These eight state authorities are key carriers in preventing and combating terrorism. Their successful work requires a single national base that will improve the state's capacity to fight terrorist threats, which will essentially increase citizens' security and make it possible to continue to successfully and timely reveal and prevent planned terrorist actions. A single database will index natural and legal persons, groups or organisations marked and placed on the international or national list of terrorists, terrorist organisations and terrorist finances. The national base base base platform will be located at the Security Information Agency. The national base will contain indexed persons on four grounds, among other things, from existing competent authorities bases, including persons suspected, accused or convicted of acts of terrorism and related crimes. It is, therefore, about persons who were in some period of time suspected, accused or convicted of terrorism. They'll all be indexed. Let me remind you, and the present so-called. Kosovo Prime Minister Albin Kurti was among the convicted terrorists. Such a designed national database will have full capacity to respond to the objective for which it is formed, which is an effective exchange of data and information between competent authorities. Data for national bases will be used to prevent threats from terrorism, timely detection and documentation of terrorist activity and prosecution. Of particular importance for the effective face-to-face of terrorist threats and their carriers to preserve the necessary confidentiality of operational work, in particular the security service, or all national authorities, for the legal validity of the use of data is the protection of the data provided for in this law, as well as the responsibility of the competent authorities to take the data protection measures contained in the national database, the obligation of administrators, as well as the supervision and control. We are convinced that the adoption and application of this law will significantly improve our country's capacity to counter terrorist threats, to raise the ability of the security system to respond in time and successfully fight terrorism. With this law, the Republic of Serbia will establish a single legal framework in this area, implement planned activities in the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. At the same time, the law has contributed to Serbia's security of regional and global security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7449	I thank Mr. Drecun. We're moving on to the list of MPs to report for word. The first on the list is the People's MP Government of the City. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7450	The Honorable Chair of the National Assembly, the distinguished Ms. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is on the agenda today, among other things, the draft law on the national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism, which we consider extremely important because it will improve the exchange of information and information between the national authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism, which will further improve the overall system of national security of the Republic of Serbia. today's terrorism poses the biggest security threat on the global scale. Until the pendemia caused by the coronary virus, the word terrorism was the most frequent term in international relations. The occurrence of the virus's corona has stopped terrorist action worldwide for one period. Unfortunately, several terrorist attacks took place at the end of last year in the European continent's space, but it is certainly necessary to pay attention to the consequences of the pandemic in the coming period. The potential economic crisis that may follow after the end of the pandemic may be the trigger and cause of terrorist attacks, both terrorist and extreme right-wing groups because poverty and poverty further increase the risk of radicalisation. Anti-pandemic measures have slowed down to some extent, or prevented numerous terrorist attacks. The ban on interstate movement, border controls, as well as the closure of airports have temporarily prevented the recruitment of new terrorists and the operation of existing terrorist groups. However, space has opened for other types of terrorist attacks, such as the abuse of digital technologies, cyber attacks and bioterrorism. Today, major changes and security risks and challenges the efficient work of all institutions that are in the security system, as well as their mutual co-operation from vital importance for the protection of state and national security. Our country is geographically located in an extremely unstable region, which is unfortunately suitable for the development of different types of terrorism, separatism, religious and ethnic extremism. According to intelligence on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, a number of terrorist cells and persons warring in Syria have been recorded. Also, in BiH, there are a number of jihadists who have returned from the battlefield, so they are not only a threat to Serbia, but also to the whole region and Europe. For this reason, for the Republic of Serbia, it is a priority to create an effective system in the fight against all types of terrorism. One important step is precisely this law, which not only improves co-operation with all security institutions, but better positioned our country in a collective security system, especially considering that a small number of countries in Europe have a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. I would also remind you of the great security challenge that we have faced as a state and people, which is a migrant crisis. Nearly a million people have gone through our country in the migrant wave, but in this case, the state has shown that it is ready to manage the crisis adequately, protecting, above all, national security, but also respecting all the principles of human rights protection. Serbia successfully co-operated with countries in the region and across Europe during the migrant crisis. She constantly assessed the threat of terrorism, exchanged intelligence with all the intelligence structures of other European countries, thereby preventing some serious crimes from taking place in the migrant wave. This is precisely why I am taking the opportunity to commend from this place all members of the security forces who in a responsible and professional way, often risking their lives, defending and protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the security of all citizens of our country. By passing this law together with the rest of the world, we protect ourselves from terrorism, by getting better integration and co-operation to be able to identify and prevent dangers. By providing adequate information, they can remove the risks, prevent attacks, and save lives in due time. This law is also fully in line with the 2017 National Security Strategy, which envisioned strategic objectives for the development of a national base for the prevention and fight against terrorism. These targets are primarily the prevention of terrorism, the removal of terrorist threats, the pursuit of terrorists and the effective response of our security system to possible terrorist attacks. Security policy plays a very important role in protecting all citizens, but it also plays an important role in international relations. That's why every country that claims to be safe and protected should invest in its security system, and this is the law that's going that way right now. In the national database for preventing and combating terrorism, all persons who have had contact with terrorist cells, and not only those who have been prosecuted, will be found, which will allow for a better insight of the authorities, who will also have the opportunity to enter data. In addition to co-operation with the UN, one number of data will be obtained, the Republic of Serbia continues and deepens co-operation with other international security organisations, such as Interpol and Europol. Such co-operation certainly places Serbia in the ranks of developed European countries, and in particular taking into account the fact that the establishment of such a national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism and obligations is in line with the Action Plan for the negotiating chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security. In this way, Serbia certainly strengthens its position as a significant factor of stability in the region and a reliable partner in international relations through integration into the European and global security system. In the end, after yesterday's UN tribunal's decision to condemn Ratko Mladic's life sentence, I will read General Ratko Mladic's message, which he sent after the verdict: "I beg my beloved people not to worry, I have brought victory to the war that hurts those who condemned me today. Today, the villains did not condemn me to life imprisonment, but to the eternal love and devotion of my people to me. I'll live while there's a Serb people. Take care of the Republika Srpska for me." Because of all the above, the SPS parliamentary group will support both this law and the other laws on the agenda of this session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7451	Thank you, Mr. Squire. The next reported MP is Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7452	I will not vote against this law, although I have used it, because I must respect this Rules of Procedure, which does not give me any great maneuver to discuss the subject. The law is good and it is necessary and it is in accordance with time and in essence the promoter when it is one of these laws, of course, shows his best face, as you who as the ruling majority support it. We of the opposition need to point out some things that are questionable to us, perhaps problematic, so in that sense I will deal with only two issues that I have found in this law and which may be a problem. One is that, for example, in Article 2(2) of point 2 on the subject – the information is not very familiar with the intelligence literature, but as far as I know, the information is not verified, and the information is being verified from at least two independent sources and as such is confirmed. In the national base for combating and preventing terrorism, we can get information that is not confirmed, and then if we link it to Article 6 where we talk about indexed persons, item 2, where you have stories about who these are indexed persons have to do with terrorism, you have among other things, and the part where they say -- or people who otherwise support terrorism. You know, in our opposition public, since we have a troubled animosity towards our intelligence services since the time of the fight against the communist system, the opposition public has been constantly developing this animosity and fear that such unverified data and that our security structures serve information that is not essential to our country's security, but they are possible to be used in political accounts between the government and the opposition. In that sense, if you have information that, in terms of intelligence semantics, what is information and what is information, if you leave that possibility that it is not accurate but that the data can be an unverified statement or fact or a notice about a man that only supports terrorism, there is the possibility that these things can be misused. Of course, regardless of what I mentioned, we as the opposition public have an animosity and mistrust in our security structures, which I don't think is good, and that in time we need to realize that, like the top British writers in World War II, it was an honor to work for their intelligence structures, so do we, whether we belong to the government or to the opposition, we have to support our intelligence structures for the reasons of patriotism. I want to draw your attention to, let's say, the United States, through a patriotic act that came in early this century, used a terrible term of terrorism in the persecution of its dissidents and political opponents, so in that sense I think this should be explained, that no small space should be opened for some abuses. The other thing that I think also needs to be distracted here is that the national base is entrusted to the BIA and it as an agency, as well as the VOA, as well as the military-security agency, is too involved in this matter to have a certain distance that it should have according to all that data and then there's the possibility of a kind of monopoly by the BIA of that data. According to some structure, since the prosecution is the one where both the two and the third agencies come when they need to carry out some action, it might be better if the national base were to stick with the prosecution. On the other hand, I understand why this has been done, because based on recent experiences in the work of BIA, which has shown great success in fulfilling some patriotic tasks and fighting some criminal groups, it has gained the trust of our current government and has gained confidence and because it is easier to influence it by our centres and institutions than through the prosecution. Because, as we did in the previous session, we had the disenfranchisement of the Assembly from the influence on the choice of judges and prosecutors, so we know also well that, let's say, the US Embassy has a lot of influence on our prosecutions and on our courts, and that perhaps for that reason, the BIA is entrusted with this, because it simply has more trust in the BIA than in these structures. Personally, I think most people in both the D.A.'s office and the B.I.A. are extremely correct, fair and patriotic doing their job. But we had examples of people who didn't do it that way and I understand why you did it like this, but again I would draw attention to that when we're passing some laws, we have to think systemically, and even once we sort out the state of the prosecution, I think it's much better if the prosecution is going to run this base, not one of the agencies, no matter how much trust I have in the BIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7453	I thank Mr. Glisic. Next on the list is MP Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7454	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like first of all to congratulate you on the preparation in which you participated yesterday in the address of the UN Security Council, because Serbia yesterday showed that in one fixed and measured way it can convey what our views are, that it is unequivocally clear that we are also aware that some people in the international community are least said to have double arches, that we are aware that some messages are being sent very clearly, and even yesterday's Security Council session was not accidentally held on the day when this second-degree verdict was handed down to General Mladić, but that we are, on the other hand, aware of our position, that Serbia must go on, to continue to develop, which certainly does not mean that it should be kept silent while it is treading and that we have no right to express our position. I think the measure with which the president spoke and the essence of what he said, and since you were involved in preparing all this, was exactly what makes Serbia today what it is, a successful country that can fight for what its interests are. On the other hand, I wanted to talk today about some other topics that are on the agenda, above all about these contracts related to "Serbiagas". Serbia needs a strong "Serbiagas" and it is not at all controversial. Serbia needs gasification, and that is not disputed either. But when we talk about it, and I see that there are a lot of enthusiasts who talk about this green energy, who talk about replacing some of the heating systems we used to have, they just need to know that just because something is being gassed doesn't mean that citizens are going to join the gas or that they're going to use gas in their households. Kickinda, the city I come from, everything is gassed up, right, Mr. Bajatovic? Everything's completely shut down and not everyone's heating up on gas. The price depends on whether people will heat or not, or they will use some other fuel, and in this context they need to think. Citizens calculate it very well when the heat season begins. It calculates how much it heats squares, how much gas, how much wood it costs, how much coal it costs, and then it acts accordingly. If we want to think in that direction and if it's a matter of gasification and if it's in our interest to get to a large number of gas-using households, which is the cleanest and simplest heating energy, then we need to think about a price that will be much more acceptable to citizens than any other energy. That's one thing. The second thing, Serbia needs a strong "Serbigas", for the simple reason that "Srbigas", has certain companies that have taken over unfortunately for debt, such as in the city, from which I come, Toza Markovic, and MSK Kikinda. ISK Kikinda works well, first of all, to President Vukic, who, until he came to that factory, did not work, and as far as Toza Markovic's factory is concerned, I just don't know, you're probably Mrs Popovic, somewhat responsible for the topic of the factory "Toza Markovic", I don't think either the Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, and the Deputy Prime Minister, would be in charge and the question is how much the Minister of Economy would be responsible, but let's say that the Minister of Police would be responsible, too, by your side, because what was going on at the Toza Markovic factory is a mildly said horror, and I am grateful for the management of the "Srbigas", which has driven the management that before and brought it itself. I'm saying this, first of all, because of the care of 550 workers who work in that factory, and these are people who do heavy physical work, who don't make a great deal of pay and high wages. I care as much as the whole town, and I'm talking about Kickinda, that this factory keeps working, that it keeps working. I don't think myself too smart, but I don't know how stupid I am, I still couldn't figure out how a factory that takes its raw materials 500 metres from a stove that burns that same raw material, and raw materials are clay, can only make a debt for 8.5m euros, is that right, Mr. Bajatovic? This factory, to be perfectly honest, hasn't been in a great situation since its privatisation when workers were just selling stock stocks, because of some small price difference, they chose the investor who owed it to every square inch, but after that, instead of the recovery and instead of the expansion that was announced, we came to the fact that the factory is in a difficult situation, that workers take care of their jobs, and that people in management, these are today investors who are building buildings around the Kickindi and Zrenjanin. That's why I say it would be interesting for you, but so would Mr. Vulin to deal with what was going on at Toza Markovic's factory in Kikinda. I say once again, it's very important that this factory continues to work, because Kickinda doesn't have a factory that is now ready to accept 550 people who are out of work. I hope and believe that "Serbiagas", as so far, will help this factory to continue to function and I am sorry that this move that has now been taken has not been taken before, because I think we would have avoided some things and that we would have warned some things. On the other hand, I know that a privatisation action plan has been put in place and this company, among other things, and I can only appeal and beg that whoever is interested or invited to participate in the privatisation of that company or to buy that company be someone from the branch. Enough of those who sell pastries in a bakery or gins in the market in the morning, and in the afternoon they buy factories that citizens and workers have produced for decades. These transnge-frangs, our purse-mad companies, and they've done a lot of work on the economy. So, to come someone who's from the branch, who's going to develop this company further, and that company was, and I hope it's going to be the pride of Kickinda. Finally, to finish the story of the Green Agenda, which, when it comes to gasification, is very often mentioned. We are, in fact, at the end of the time that has lasted since the 1990s, in which the area of human rights has been raised to a pedestal to the extent that there has been justification for sanctions, for wars, for destroying entire countries, for destroying entire regions. It is enough to say that human rights are being violated in a country, that it is said by someone who has authorized himself to judge whether or not human rights are being violated, and then the trees and stones of the majority of the international order in the country where this country is being disciplined, not taking a lot of account of what is true, nor of what is tradition and heritage of that country. I think we're at the end of that era and we're entering a new era that's going to be called the Green Agenda era. That's what the President of the Republic spoke of several times. If you look objectively, if in some country, human rights are being violated in an environment, it is not something that touches the citizens of some neighbouring country, and that's why this movement is interventionist in the world and has had so many opponents among intellectuals and free citizens, truly free citizens, not these liberally free citizens, as they like to call themselves, and in fact they are very firmly indoctrinated with a new doctrine which communism is not even up to articles, but when you have ecological pollution, you can't say that something that happens thousands of miles away from your country has nothing to do with your country, because climate and climate change and everything else shows that every country's inhabitant is affecting one or another country on the planet. That's why it's a dangerous agenda that's being prepared, because she's going to have a higher legitimacy, conditionally, because the essence shows that something else is a motive, not really a struggle for human rights, then or really a struggle for ecology today, but with a declarative higher legitimacy, to make trips around the world, to introduce discipline among those who aren't disciplined, to make world order the way it suits someone else, etc. It is in this context that Serbia should prepare itself for the challenges ahead. If you look at these days what some parties of the former regime are doing, then you will see that they are and are already moving along that political line and in line with that agenda. Is that a way to restrain China, I'm too small and irrelevant to discuss and discuss it. The fact is that China's economy precedes many world economies, is that when it comes to the Chinese economy, the liberal laws of the market, freedom, flow, people, goods, capital, etc. are no longer in force. but sanctions apply, other things apply, but I'm also very indicative of what's going on in our country, and what happens is that by the former regime, every investment that comes from China has been attacked. You have one situation in one province, in the northern province, that two factories are being built in two cities that have been granted the same permits that are subject to the same rules, that both make tires and that there is always something rallying in front of one city, and that for the other rarely anyone knows and someone will say it's an accident. I will not deliberately mention this other factory, which is, or whose, for the simple reason these people are not guilty of it, but it is obvious that this agenda in Serbia is already being applied and in this context we need to be prepared and we need to prepare an adequate response. Of course, each of us wants to live in a healthy environment, of course, that each of us wants to breathe clean air and, of course, that each of us wants to drink clean water. It's nothing controversial, but, on the other hand, it won't be that for the past 10 years, ever since there's been a beautiful green country in the power of the SNS, where there hasn't been any wild dumps, where there have been no polluted rivers or polluted air, it's polluted this very government. It will not be that those who were before us in power and those who ruled Serbia left behind an earthly paradise. Perhaps the air was better, because they closed all the factories that were working in Serbia, but if we choose between people working and having something to live on and the Green Agendas, as they look at it, because it's a false concern for environmental science, as they've been falsely concerned about everything else, then we should also ask the citizens what they think about it. That is why I am pleased to announce the referendum announced by the president. Of course, I will vote in favour of these laws concerning and terrorism, especially this part concerning the further development of gasification in Serbia and strengthening, I am convinced, "Serbiagas", in the hope that the "Srbigas" in the period ahead will also show strength and determination when it comes to these smaller companies that are part of it, that both those factories and those workers will be satisfied and make sure that they can bring bread to their children, because that is what they deserve by their work and that is what they earn every day in these factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7455	I thank Mr. Jovanov. The next one is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7456	Thank you, Your Honor. You have been given the opportunity to hear that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support these legal solutions, because we are deeply convinced that what seems to be very important on this road is beyond what is necessary and necessary in order to ensure that all the challenges of the security type that threaten both our society and our country are better. For this reason and, of course, knowing that our area, the Balkans area, and throughout history and in every other sense, is a great potential for development, so that it is always a challenge for those who are affected by sickness and hatred to cause certain problems, we need to have one such base, not because the EU is looking for it, but because, above all, it is our commitment to be in this direction leaders of the whole region in order to simply warn everything that can potentially be risky for citizens and for society in general. Terrorism and terrorist enterprise are the results of sick minds, whether they are individual, whether they are organized and they must be treated as such. It's something that we meet in all history in all cultures and civilizations and where, in fact, the advantage of one society is one system in how ready it is to respond to these kinds of challenges. This time and this strategy is the direction in which we give a strong answer that we are ready to fully respond to every kind of challenge of this kind in our society, and that, of course, in that sense, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are safer and that this is a space that, thanks to this security assessment, will be a space of investment, be a place that will provide a favourable environment for anyone who wants a peaceful, dignified life for themselves, for their family and, of course, the possibility of business investment in the sense that its investment is safe, safe, and that it brings that benefit, those benefits that are drawn up by their plans and programmes. With this in mind, it is very important that we have this kind of base, it is very important that it be fair and well profiled and that it be of every kind of help to all those structures that are struggling to protect and ensure a safe, peaceful dream for all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7457	Thank you, Mr. Fehratovic. Next on the list is Sanja Jeftic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7458	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the co-workers' minister, authorised SDPS representative, Bačevac, presented in his presentation the position of our political group on the Law on the National Database for Preventing and Combating Terrorism, and in this respect I will look at the remaining three points of the agenda, which are interlinked and related to guarantees provided by the Republic of Serbia, which are necessary for the realisation of the contract crediting the gasification of the Borski, Zajecarski, Kolubar County, as well as the construction of the Leskovac-Vran gas pipeline. I will start from the south, given that I come from this part of Serbia. Gas pipeline arrived in the town of Leskovac 13 years ago and has been joined by several large industrial companies so far. A few days ago, the city council decided to join the city's gasification programme for the period 2021-2025, and the programme planned to expand the pipeline network and create conditions for joining all those households that want to enter the system and on the territory of the town of Leskovec itself. So this plan provides for the entire town of Leskovac to be gassed by 2025. The aim of one such decision is for gas as energy to be economically adapted to each consumer, as it allows for the regulation of consumption on the one hand, so that it reaches every household, but also an economic operator on the other. In this context, in the next period, according to the information I have, more than 32 million will be invested, and this is significant not only for the town of Leskovac, but also for Vranje and Vladic's Han. This means practically that by completing the construction of the Leskovac-Vranje gas pipeline, with its main measurement stations, we will create conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all settlements, but also the integration of industrial, municipal and individual consumers to that distribution system. In short, I will refer to the Environmental Protection Agency's report, which suggests that the highest degree of air pollution is just coming from coal-using thermal power plants, as well as from individual sheds. We've talked about it many times in the National Assembly so far, but given the importance of this topic, as well as the connection to what we're talking about today, I think we should keep reminding of it. We know that Serbia is preparing to increase the use of energy from renewable sources to as much as 27% by 2025, but also to open new surface carbon spears. We also know that the EU plans to shut down all coal thermal power plants by 2050 at the latest and thus significantly reduce pollution. In this regard, last year's survey by the EU Environment Protection Agency on the effects of environmental pollution marked Serbia and several Balkan countries as black spots in Europe. It should be our alarm to start thinking about protecting our environment in a completely different way. One of the reasons for that is certainly the obsolescence of the energy system that exists with us now. The very idea of protecting the environment is more recent than the facility that we have in our country, and of which Serbia gets more than half of the energy. So about 70% of the electricity produced by the EPS comes from the thermal power plant. It is a process that starts with coal and ends with our lit lamps in the homes of most of us. The reason for this high percentage lies because the largest part of our electricity generation system was built in the last century, when countries depended most on coal and the potential of large rivers. At that time, technology was not developed in the way it is now, and when we talk about the production of electricity, the sun, the wind or other renewable sources, and they were not commercially available, so perhaps the reason for using this energy at that time had an excuse, which is certainly not the case now. We must also not ignore that in Europe, the way we are doing it now began to talk about it twenty years ago. This is a relatively new idea in Serbia, if we start from those factors that have affected the inability to create awareness of environmentalism and its importance in our country. In Serbia, although we rarely admit it, there is an opinion that coal electricity is the cheapest, probably due to socio-history circumstances in which our country has been back years. I also mention that Serbia is committed to applying the provisions of the European directive on large pads and thus gradually reducing emissions, as well as closing the thermoelectric plants that are large pollutants, which at the same time have no purpose or economic justification to invest. In the next 10 to 15 years, Serbia will surely have to find a way to allocate significant funds to build new pipelines, but also to devote itself to reducing air pollution, ecology and all other aspects in this context, but in a more comprehensive and planned way. There is no doubt that this kind of investment is also an environmental concept of social policy efforts, and when I say so, I mean the necessity for people working in the context of carbon exploitation to be provided in the sense that they find alternative jobs to deal with, because it is rarely talked about, and it is very important, and we ignore that many people today actually work in these facilities. The EU countries are this ecological problem, i.e. I will call it an economic transition, and it has already passed, and that is now the period that awaits us in the coming period. I think we'll do it in a well-planned way within the proper deadlines. What is important so far is that Serbia has a clear awareness of the need for these changes to happen and that is a good start for our country. Another reason why SDPS supports the adoption of these laws lies also in the fact that one way to reduce the use of coal is to switch to natural gas, i.e. the energy of which the combustion emits between 50% and 60% is less carbon dioxide than coal thermoelectrics. Our country has a small gas production and it does not meet all market needs and we are long-term forced to import it, which we are doing now. We must therefore carefully consider all options in this regard, respecting both the political and social and economic components, i.e. the side of the gasification itself and its process. I only mention another interesting fact that only 20% of energy is currently generated from renewable energy sources in Serbia. In the future, we must also turn to some other renewable energy sources and to us, in that sense, I would mention solar energy, which has not yet been used enough. We about ten years ago as a reason for the poor use of solar energy and solar panels had an excuse in the sense that it interfered with agricultural production. However, numerous world research and examples show that beneath solar panels, intensive vegetable production of many different cultures can be very successfully organized, where panels serve as a sort of protection against excessive solar radiation and rainfall, so that we can no longer have this kind of excuse, or serve as an excuse not to devote ourselves to solar panels and energy that comes from there. Furthermore, another important fact is that energy losses in Serbia are even three times the European average and we have been warned several times, and according to the World Bank, Serbia loses about 15% of its energy in transport, while the EU average is about 5.5%. And finally, any way of producing electricity, whatever kind of vision we choose, is in some way damaging the environment. It is up to us as a society to find a way that, on the one hand, will be efficient enough to serve the public interest, but on the other hand, to provide enough energy with a minimal negative impact on the environment itself. The longer we find balance between good and useful, the longer it will last and the negative effects on air pollution that we have in our country. If we find our engine in the fact that the situation is the worst in the Balkans and that countries with a percentage of deaths due to pollution in Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Romania and Serbia, and as long as air pollution, noise pollution, poor water quality, air and exposure to chemicals account for 13% of all deaths in this area of Europe, then we understand the importance of these three laws that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7459	Thank you. The next MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7460	The President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the National Database to prevent and combat terrorism, aims to establish a single legal framework based on comparative solutions and positive European practice in this area. The law will allow us a clear and precise way of updating the data into the database, access to data from these bases, their use and protection, and, of course, all in accordance with international standards for the protection of human rights and freedoms. The state authorities in charge of prevention, the fight against terrorism will have a more effective exchange of information which will raise the ability of our country's security system. The national database will contain data on natural persons, legal persons, as well as groups or organisations. All persons who have had contact with terrorist cells, not just those who have been prosecuted, are found in the National Database. By forming this database, Serbia is classified as a security figure in the ranks of developed European countries. One of our country's strategic investments is the accelerated gasification of parts of Serbia that are not covered by natural gas transport systems, and that is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed that Serbia's Public Enterprise is in charge of 169 million. Currently, about 60% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been shut down and very uneven. Gasification of a strategic project that will create conditions in addition to environmental protection for attracting new investors, new investments in these parts of Serbia, because this is a basic condition for someone to invest in these areas. The law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the OTP Bank under the responsibility of Serbia's 66m euros refers to a part of our territory that is not covered by the natural gas transport system. It is part of eastern Serbia that covers part of the Borski District and part of the Zajecar County where more than 200,000 inhabitants live. The territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is not ultimately covered by the natural gas transport system, is the Pcinj County. The 28m-euro credit will be used to build the Leskovac development pipeline – Vranje, which is otherwise an undeveloped zone with the needs of large investments in natural activities, especially when it comes to the arrival of foreign investments that require natural gas as energy. The 75m-euro loan will be used for the gasification of the Kolubar district, the construction of the Belgrade-Valjevo-Loznica development pipeline. So, the state has made the maximum possible to reduce the cost of connections on the pipeline network, by correcting the fees of local self-government. Large taxes were the main reason many gave up joining the gas, which is otherwise the most profitable energy in the longer term. In addition, Serbiagas will cut its costs, so the gas connection will cost about 780 euros, and can be paid to 36 wars without interest. About 300,000 households are heating up in Serbia, and it is planned to join about 500,000 households in the pipeline by the end of 2022. I would like to remind you that the territory of the AP Vojvodina is almost 100% gassed. The Balkan current is part of the Turkish current pipeline and at this point all 403km of the master pipeline from Zaječar to Horgos is complete and the pipeline in Hungary is being connected. The compressor station will be built by half the summer, so all agreed obligations on our part will be met as planned. The first quantities of gas towards Hungary will take place in October and the most important thing is that diversification has been done, i.e. a supply direction has been established from the Black Sea across Bulgaria to Serbia towards Hungary. The leg capacity is 15.7 billion cubic metres of gas and that amount is enough to satisfy about 15 million medium households. We have heard more than once from Serbia's leadership that everything has been done in accordance with European standards. The most modern devices, materials, equipment and everything required by the Energy Community, both in technical and commercial terms. I would especially like to praise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the leadership of Serbia, led by Dusan Bajatovic, which, apart from all the obstructions of MPs, the interests of large countries and companies have managed to complete this project, without great pomp and in silence, which is one of the largest and most significant projects of the last decade in our country. That is why the JS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7461	Thank you. The word is Justin Pupin Koscal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7462	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a bill on the National Database to prevent and combat terrorism, which is on the agenda today, is a new legal framework allowing the establishment of a single National Database to prevent and combat terrorism. The database is the starting point of prevention and the fight against terrorism at global level, as international exchanges of information on terrorists and terrorist organisations will allow for a more effective global response to all the challenges and dangers terrorism brings with it. As early as 2017, the Republic of Serbia began preparing this legislative proposal when the Working Group was established to establish a National Database for Combating Terrorism and as a member of the UN and other international organisations, Serbia has harmonised legislation that enables effective opposition to this planetary monster. Also, Serbia is a signator of a number of bilateral agreements in this area that improve co-operation with other countries, which is of great importance to organised counter terrorism. Given the fact that terrorism is a dynamic phenomenon and that it appears in new forms and struggles against it must go into step with new forms of occurrence. The bill, which is before us in a very clear and detailed way, establishes procedures for the establishment of a database, the content of data, access to data, but also provides data protection, taking into account both security and human rights and freedoms with the highest international standards. The aim of the establishment of the National Base is to exchange data and information more efficiently between competent authorities, both at national and international level. Terrorism is a phenomenon that poses a great danger to humanity and is considered one of today's greatest security threats. Terrorism is a highly political phenomenon and represents a complex form of political violence and where there are no political goals and political motives we cannot even talk about terrorism. The terrorist's goal is to cause great fear, shock, as well as attract attention to himself, using violence as a method, and citizens and government as targets. Terrorism sends a message that no one is safe and that anyone can be a victim, so unfortunately, no country today is spared the dangers of terrorism. There are great efforts that almost all countries of the world are making to combat terrorism, and the fight against it is not easy at all. Successes in the fight against terrorism on a global scale can be identified as temporary, but unfortunately not as final. Why is the fight against terrorism so difficult? There's a lot of reasons for that. More specifically, there is a list of 10 reasons why the international community identified leading countries to fight terrorism and on that list for 10 reasons, the most important reason is that there is not one generally accepted definition of terrorism, because what is one terrorism for others is not and vice versa. When we talk about terrorism, we all think we know what terrorism is, and we don't. It is noticeable that a double standard exists, because some countries that support one's terrorism do not call it terrorism, which he is, but they call it a liberating movement. We have the best example of this in our southern province, so on KIM, so on the so-called KIM. The KLA, which is a classical terrorist organisation, for the sake of someone's political interests aimed at kidnapping the work of our territory, is unfortunately called the Liberation Army. Professor Dragan Simonovic, a world-renowned terrorist expert, states in his book "Terrorism": "For many reasons, terrorism has not only been seen as a global danger, but it is. Moreover, it can be said that terrorism will be a secure companion of the 21st century, which will inevitably have to lead to the establishment of a generally accepted definition of terrorism if one more peaceful world is to be desired, and it would be necessary to free that definition from the burden of any political interests. Only in this way would it be possible to approach the eternal, ancient ideal – that politics should serve the general good. “ While the fight against terrorism is extremely difficult, it does not mean that it is not to be fought. When it comes to the practical aspect of the fight against terrorism, then the basis is just the database of terrorists and terrorist organisations. Serbia is establishing its National Database with this very law creating conditions for raising its security system's readiness to a higher level in order to respond in a timely and effective manner in the fight against terrorism. Of course, the SPS Parliamentary Group, which is permanently committed to security and strengthening the rule of law in all segments of the voting day, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7463	Thank you. The next is MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7464	Thank you, Mr. Hardsic. Dear Mrs Popovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the largest number of states, I say, the modern world is obsessed with solving numerous and diverse security challenges and threats, and among them terrorism certainly represents one of the most dangerous, since it is characterized by a high degree of cruelty and indifference. The country's experience so far in the fight against terrorism points to the fact that state policy cannot rely solely on the instruments of force in an attempt of course to defeat it. It is necessary to consider all other opportunities to use more effective instruments that should have a strong effect in order to achieve greater efficiency, to say a preventive effect in order to finally stop the threat of terrorism. Accordingly, the Republic of Serbia is seeking to build a national security and defence system that can effectively protect its vital values by giving competent state authorities the opportunity to detect, monitor, document, prevent and process ultimately all terrorist activities directed towards the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in accordance with its legal powers. What I would like to point out is that so far, the co-operation of all state actors on this matter has been at the highest possible level. However, this Bill of Law, so the National Database Bill on Prevention and Combating Terrorism, gives the competent authorities one more tool, thus giving another opportunity to fight the problem in a better and more efficient way. The creation of a unique database on persons, whether they are legal persons, natural persons, groups or organisations designated as terrorist or engaged in terrorist financing, allows for a far faster and more efficient identification of persons and organisations directly related to terrorism, especially considering that that database will contain persons from the list of designated persons of the UN and other international organisations, as well as from existing bases of competent authorities established in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the National Base consists of a basic platform located at the BIA and individual services for access to the basic platforms. As chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I believe that the introduction of such a, I say, single National Databases will significantly contribute to the protection of national security, but also to the security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is also the goal that we will achieve by this law. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to highlight the importance of international co-operation, where thanks to the government's policy, the Republic of Serbia is recognised as a stable and reliable partner, as a country that takes very seriously the fight against this monster group. With the hope that we will never witness terrorist attacks in Serbia, such as attacks on US World Trade Centre buildings or attacks on the "Charlie Ebdo" List, I would conclude this part of my presentation with a single quote -- "Anyone who destroys one life as if he destroyed the whole world, and anyone who saves one life as if he saved the whole world." Therefore, if we can save even one human life in this way, all our efforts will have so much more meaning. I cannot, Madam Minister, in my address not to look back on what marked yesterday, and this is the continuation of the policy aimed at making Serbs appear to be the only culprits for everything that happened in the former Yugoslavia's space, to turn out to be the only one responsible for all the crimes that have happened and to repeat what has been in force for decades, and this is a sad fact that for us Serbs, for the Serbian people, and especially for Serbian victims, there is no justice, and in particular there is no justice in The Hague. Once again it has proved to be a political institution with exclusively political motives to judge only Serbs in The Hague. Here's what it looks like. The indicted Serbs in front of The Hague tribunal are 109, which is 68% of all persons to whom the indictment has been confirmed. So, Bosniaks are nine, Croats 34, Macedonians two and Albanians seven. It's even worse when it comes to convicts and that relationship. The Serbs were sentenced to 65, including yesterday's shameful verdict, Bosniak Five, Croat 18, Macedonians one, Albanians two. This is what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen – a list of convicted Serbs in The Hague Tribunal – Ljubisa Beara, Colonel of the Republika Srpska Army – a life sentence, died in 2017, Stanislav Galić, General of the Republika Srpska Army – a life sentence, Milan Luka, commander of the paramilitary formation, Ratko Mladic, general of the Republika Srpska Army – a life sentence, Zdravko Tolimić, General of the Republika Srpska Army – a life sentence, died in 2016, Radovan Karadžić, President of Republika Srpska – a total of seven life sentences, Goran Jelić – 40 years, Milomir Stakić, President of the Republika Srpska, President of the Republic of Republika Srpska – 40 years ago Mr. Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS for 10 years, Veselin Sljivancanin, Major JNA 10 years, Dragan Jokić for nine years, Predrag Banovic for eight years, Miroslav Tadic for eight years, Pavle Strugar for seven and a half years, Miodrag Jokić for seven years, Miroslav Kvočka for seven years, Milojica Kos for six years, Simo Zarić for six years, Damir Došen for five years, Milan Gvero for five years, Dragoljub Prcac for five years, Milan Simić for five years, Drazen Jordemović for five years, Dragan Kolundžija for three years. A total of seven life sentences and 967 and a half years in prison, Serbs were given in The Hague tribunal. When it is added to that by the number of years in prison, which were also given to Serbs, but whose process was transferred to the BiH judiciary, and these are nine totals, not to read now, then the number is much, much larger. We can add to that the defendants who died before the process ended, so they are not legally convicted, Goran Borovnica, Slavko Dokmanović, Simo Drljac, Djordje Djukić, Dragan Gagović, Janko Janjic-Tuta, Nikica Janjic, Dr Milan Kovacevic, Slobodan Miljković-Lugar, Slobodan Milosevic, Željko Raznjitović-Arkan, Vlajko Stojljković, Momir Talić, Goran Hadzic. And if we add that, and many of them were killed by SFOR forces in Bosnia, if you remember, although we add to them two more processes that are under way, so Franko Simatovic and Jovica Stanisic, where a retrial is ordered, then we come to the full picture when it comes to the Hague tribunal's relationship with Serbs. And today, after all, we suffer the same pressures as the state, the same injustice as the people, and we witness what kind of pressures the president of the state is facing, Alexander Vukic. The last in a number of these pressures is a clean political pressure to hand over SRS officials Veric Radet and Peter Jojic, although they are not charged with any crime, but rather a charge of contempt of the court. And I can't help but look back when we're talking about this and the relationship, to say some from Serbia, when it comes to the UN tribunal, when it comes to the Serbian people's judgments, and it's simply incomprehensible behavior of some media in Serbia and some individuals who were literally looking forward yesterday, literally rejoiced and over the shameful verdict of The Hague tribunal. And it is not by any chance that it is the same media and individuals who lead the daily campaign against Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Every day, on every topic and on every subject, they run an organised campaign, and I would say "hike" against the president of the state. And I want to draw the public's attention that, to say quite certain, these pressures that I spoke about and the attacks on the president of the country of Aleksandr Vukic will be strengthened in the coming period, because it is proven to run a state-of-the-art policy, because it leads to responsible policy and above all, because it leads to a policy of protection of Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7465	I thank Mr. Markovic for reminding us of these earthquake facts that we must never forget. Next on the list is National MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7466	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with collaborators, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have a set of very important legal solutions from two to one different areas, a matter of gasification, or a bill to support banks with regard to the provision of gasification funds, that is, the fact that one part of the country will receive and improve the network of pipelines, we certainly support, with the insistence, hope and the need to mention that the Government's promises are in the direction that the rest of the country, which does not actually have a solution to the gas pipeline issue, will be covered very quickly. So in every sense, in terms of energy efficiency, in terms of particularly extenuating circumstances and demands of people's lives, certainly this set of laws is very important and we will support it. On the other hand, the issue of the National Database Bill in the fight against terrorism is very important. This law kind of surrounds a set of legal solutions that will make the fight against terrorism more effective in many ways, since we know that terrorism is a global evil, a global threat humanity is constantly facing. True, in different periods it's different and presented and defined, I'm merely the influence and presence of terrorism, but what we can say is that terrorism as a form of violence is directed towards anyone who really needs to be condemned, which at no cost should be justified in any way. On the other hand, respected academics Zukorlic, the leader of our party spoke in his address in the need for certain things to be clearly differentiated in terms of saying this ligvinst language approach, so we have very often, though at a global level, coins of a type of Islamic terrorism where it should be clearly indicated that terrorism as a threat to global peace is incompatible with any religion, particularly monotheistic, I would say, and especially with Islam, as such, which in itself represents peace and protection of absolute rights. It is so important that even with regard to the domestic public in the media, such failures should not occur in public discourse. For what? It's precisely because, through the media, if we want to and through the education system, we have to teach generations that terrorism is a threat, evil, and that it has no name, name, religion, movement, but that it's an exclusive definition and choice of individuals. In that sense, we will raise the awareness of the citizens, hopefully to a higher level. In that sense, I would mention an event that took place two, three days ago when a whole Muslim family in Canada was killed just because they were Muslims, that it was just the prime minister of Canada who said it was only a terrorist act. So only together can we be effective in combating terrorism, and it is very important to separate certain things from some of the denominators that do not belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7467	Thank you. The word is Nenad Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7468	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister of Associates, three draft laws on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for loans for the gasification of certain districts, the construction of divorce pipelines on which the Assembly will declare is certainly a step forward in our country and as regards energy stability and ecological improvement. I would remind you that a month ago here in the Assembly, we discussed energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, environmental protection as the paradigms of the modern world, fossil fuels and their impact on that same environment. One of the fossil fuels is natural gas. Now we have some kind of absurdity, a month ago we talked about the necessity of reducing the use of fossil fuels and the faster the transition to so-called. Green energy, and now we're talking again about the use of fossil fuel. If we look at the benefits of natural gas compared to other fossil fuels, then maybe this one on the look of absurdity will be clearer. Namely, the advantage of natural gas is multiple. The first is very acceptable, the low cost of exploitation, no storage costs, very high levels of exploitation, especially if the use of condensation boilers, the lowest emissions of carbon dioxide compared to all other fossil fuels, no tea during combustion, therefore there is no pollution and ease of use. Another important thing, since these bill proposals talk about loans, every loan taken in the end needs to be economically profitable, and here economic profitability is seen in multiple directions. The first direction is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. I mentioned earlier that natural gas has the lowest carbon dioxide emissions compared to all other fossil fuels. The price of carbon emissions to the EU has increased 140% in the last year alone, and now about 55 euros per tonne of carbon dioxide. Of course, countries that are not in the EU will at some point face the fact that they will have to in some way pay that broadcast through either some tax or through the export of goods to the EU, so that is our inevitableness, and in this way we will save large funds by reducing carbon emissions. The second direction is to attract new investments, as the use of natural gas reduces the production price in many ways, those areas where there is gas are becoming more attractive for new investors, which means the creation of new jobs. In Serbia, natural gas is most used in Vojvodina, Belgrade and parts of central Serbia. Jagodina is a good example of gas work from central Serbia where we have natural gas divorced to every village, and as far as attracting new investments there is no need to say anything, because it has become a paradigm since JS President Dragan Markovic Palma took the lead. The third direction is the energy stability resulting from the discharge of the energy system, which is affected by gas stability with the diversification of gas routes. Of course, one of the conditions is that these loans would be economically profitable is that the largest number of households join this system. It is therefore necessary to carry out a good citizen education in order to obtain as detailed information on gas as energy. Not only education, but also conditions must be those that will be economically acceptable to most households, because if you have a household that is connected to the gas without adequate insulation of the facility itself, with inefficient carpentry, with furnaces that have a low degree of energy use, therefore, household i.e. An object that loses very warm energy whatever energy he uses will be expensive for him. But it's gonna be an anti-camping fight that's gonna be hard to fight afterwards. Therefore, it is necessary to educate investment in infrastructure for a long time to make sure that certain benefits are granted to households, reduction of the price of the connection, etc. Because if we look at the ecological situation in cities, environmental pollution in cities depends largely on individual lodges of individual houses. In this way, if those bars were on gas and ecological conditions, i.e. air pollution in cities would decrease. Local self-government will also have large benefits from gasification, as crossing local gas heat solves many energy and environmental problems. The town of Leskovac has almost completed two ways of gasification in the city itself, and the gasifications of an industrial zone called the green zone, which will thus become even more attractive for new investments. I would like to point out that only a few months ago, she received 18 million dinars from the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the reconstruction of a gas-to-gas boiler room, so this is going in a good direction in Leskovac. The divorce pipeline from Leskovec to Vranj will have a very positive impact on the development of the southern part of Serbia, i.e. for the whole of the Phinehas County. Of course, such infrastructure projects are not current but remain for future generations, and their importance for industry and citizenship in the next few decades will be exceptional and therefore the JS parliamentary group will support these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7469	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7470	Thank you, Vice President. Dear citizens, we are talking today about several draft laws, and the first among them is the bill on a national database for preventing and combating terrorism. In addition to the law, there are three laws on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for the borrowing of "Srbigas" among domestic banks for the realisation of three strategic energy and infrastructure projects from Serbia's gasification sector. Despite the fact that my distinguished colleagues and authorised representative, Djordje Milicevic and my colleague, Vladan Zagradjan, Justina Pupin, spoke about the first bill, I will still look back at this law. It refers to the database of terrorists and terrorist organisations, and it would not be natural for me to keep it quiet under the circumstances that I come from Kim where we are best, I think, to feel the effects of the acts of the terrorist organization of the U.K., including many of their predecessors since the beginning of the 20th century. To remind the Serbian public above all that the UN-Secrets at the international level were first declared by the UN Resolution 19-60 of 1998 and then by the US authorities, more specifically the State Department in 2001, by a terrorist organisation. It is therefore not unnatural for me to expect that this organization today, which still wants to secede part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will be in our national register, or national database for the prevention of terrorism and the fight against terrorism, because the most important thing in these documents is to start from its own backyard first. It's sad to have what we have in our backyard, but reality is what it is. I will also refer to the discussions of colleagues before me, especially colleagues of Ace Markovic, who reminded us and helped us to handle the day of yesterday more easily. Why am I going back to the subject? Because it is very important in the Serbian parliament, especially today, to say how much injustice was in front of the eyes of the whole world last night. I, speaking this way, do not go into court decisions and their judgments. I'm talking about everything that we were following the UN Security Council session had a chance to hear last night. I'm talking about the reactions that followed after the discussion of the President of the Republic. I'm talking about statements from neighbouring states officials after the verdict. I am talking about an increasingly clear picture of Serbia that is really seeking reconciliation and an increasingly clearer picture of everyone around us who does not think to accept this out-of-date hand. No one can say that there are no victims during one war. No one can say that the victims were gone, that there were no terrible crimes that took place, and that was war on its own. What has to be said is that this tendency that 30 years ago, all crimes are attributed exclusively to Serbs, and we had the chance to hear, unfortunately, in the address of the representatives of Croatia and the code, I must stress, the illegal representative of BiH, because as far as I understand and how much I sent out, and I did well, Mr Dodik said that the consent of the Republika Srpska for the participation and representation of BiH at the Security Council did not have a gentleman who joined last night. The answer they received from the President of the Republic was state-owned. The reactions we hear are, I'm trying to find a word, and I probably won't be able to find an adequate word to say in the Serbian parliament, but what's important is to say first of all for the public and for the Serbian people is that we can't be demoralized. We must be aware that we were never a genocide people, and unfortunately yesterday is not the first day to show us how difficult it is to be a Serb. I want to believe there won't be any more days like that, but on the other hand, I'm afraid it will. You need to stay calm, fully aware of yourself, fully aware of everyone around us, because I'm afraid of the kind of performances they had last night just talking about themselves, not us. As many convicted as he was, my colleague Markovic spoke. How many were released? That's what I want to say. Nonsens is in fact that the same tribunal freed Ramush Haradinaj and Naser Oric and Gotovina. A court formed by the United States above all to establish justice and reconciliation, as spoken when it was formed, brought everything but justice and reconciliation. He has brought selective justice, sentenced only to Serbs and no reconciliation, but only to dissipate these differences, even with one such decision. That, unfortunately, I'm right, you'll read it by the end of the day. Whoever considers himself important, important, irrelevant, whatever, has allowed himself the luxury of following Ratko Mladic's verdict and he spits out and says something ugly about Serbia or reminds us how many criminals we are. I am proud of both my Serbia and my Serbian people and for the performance of the Republic of Serbia and its president at the UN Security Council session last night and of all of us who did not get caught up in that cheap trap of gossip over the board, especially for such rural women. We are a country moving forward, so we have decided, determined to be members of Europe, although Europe often has double arches compared to us and our neighbours, they will change their attitudes when a little more rational and purer glasses look at the Western Balkans. That is why today, apart from this important law, we will bring three guarantees from the state for loans to "Srbigas", it is true, to be in charge, but it is regional gasification projects and it is not small. Four districts, that's a sequel to everything we're talking about, that's it. Serbia's strategic definition of providing sustainable and ecological energy, first of all, is the road to strengthening energy stability and security, and on the other hand security of stable and economic supply of citizens and natural gas as energy. What's the big deal? For the realisation of these three projects, the funds are provided from the loans "Srbigas", which is true, and two loans from the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and one loan from the Bank "Inteza" a.d. Belgrade. These loans, which "Srbigas" will use to gas those counter-guarantee districts, are granted primarily by the Republic of Serbia, confirming the national, or state importance of these projects that "Srbigas" has added to its business programme set out in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is important, in particular, to say that they are developmental, not consumer loans. Benefit from the gasification of those districts will have at the construction stage of Serbia's economy that will participate in the realisation of these projects, and we know that infrastructure-type projects run many branches of the economy and employ a significant number of workers of different profiles. Thus, gasification under these projects will affect economic growth and employment, and these are valuable projects that will also affect the overall revitalisation of the economy, the district, or the reduction of regional differences. Finally, it is also important to point out that all loans that we are discussing today are in line with the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia and the Budget Law. Time is running out for the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, otherwise there would be much to say. In addition to what my colleagues pointed out, which is that in the voting day we will support all the proposed drafts of the law, I will indeed end my discussion with another appeal, which is that we do not remain under the impression of all those diabolical ones who would make yesterday and the bitter taste that everyone wore in their mouths as some historic victory. It is necessary to remember what Serbia is, and Serbia is the country of all its citizens, without distinction to which nation, people and religion belong. They won't destroy our determination to look pacifist on all of them, but they can't expect us to forget Jasenovac, or the crimes before Jasenovac, or the criminals after Jasenovac, without the difference where they happened. The only thing we won't do is we won't go down to the level from which they are trying to accuse the entire Serbian people and the state of Serbia. What is The Hague tribunal itself? The answer will give history. I am an economist, but I can almost say that in the future it will be an example of bad practice and injustice over a small people who defended Europe and did not deserve anything to be answered in the 21st century by Europe, which he defended in the First World War, in this way. Either way, it's neither the whole of Europe nor everyone thinks the same thing, we'll wait for a time when those who understand justice and love among people will be louder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7471	Thank you. Next up is colleague Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7472	Dear chairman, respected guests, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in the first place of the esteemed citizen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have three sets of important laws on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in order to gasse the Borski and Zajecar's administrative district. Citizens need to know that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's initiative to plan Serbiangas' investment activities for this year is the important conclusion of the founder of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the need for gasification of the mentioned districts. Since it is a strategically necessary infrastructure project, in addition to the economic justification of gasification, there are also ecological advantages. Bor is one of the largest copper and gold mines in Europe, in which, thanks to our president and Chinese partners, mining continued, not the production of foot-and-mouth disease and the planting of peanuts, as was the idea at the time of democratic government, since of the 22 companies that were part of the Bor 19 Mining-topic base were sold for nothing but three. Of the 22,000 RTB workers, only 5,000 employees remain. I have to say all this, I have to remind my Borans and the Majdanpeks what they did to our cities the same ones who now want to return to power. The current importance of Serbia's mine and company Zijdin also shows the fact that, thanks to the successful politics of Aleksandar Vukic and international co-operation, jobs are retained and that Serbia's Zijdin has 1200 more employees today. The average net earnings of company employees are 94,000 dinars, which is above the republican average. That the mining base depends on the existence of many families also tells the fact that the company with numerous local cooperatives has agreed business co-operation in the area of engineering design of construction, technical services, and thus more than half of the population in Bor and Majdanpek has direct but indirect benefits from the company. The company's business benefits are not only for the residents of the Borski Management District, but also for the whole state, since last year the company paid 46.3m US dollars into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about protecting the environment and the advantages of today's law, I must also point out that until the arrival of Alexander Vukic, the previous authorities fought to make our economy and economy extinct. The Democrats couldn't even bury her properly, because waste matter had to be preserved, a warehouse, and they couldn't do it either. Over 200,000 people live in Borsko and Zaječar County. Bor has, unlike Zaječar, more salters than houses and about 11,000 apartments. By gasification of the Borsko and Zaječar County, by building a divorce pipeline with attaching major measurement stations, there will be conditions for building distribution gases in all settlements and connecting industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. This will allow the use of natural gas as a cheaper, easy to use, and for the citizens of Bora, the city that is the largest industrial energy consumption, and for our children the most important – greener fuel, thanks to which, on the one hand, it will reduce harmful emissions of gases from industry, so that the oxygen around us will be cleaner, while, on the other hand, the use of natural gas, as fuel, will significantly recharge the electricity capacity. The arrival of gas in the city's heat, but also energy “Zidjina” would replace 70,000 tonnes of coal per year, which means – cleaner sky, cleaner air. They'll replace 10,000 metres of cubic beech tree. The consumption of beech forms used for the process of reduction in solvents will be excluded and the process will be cost-effective. In addition to the economic and ecological benefits of the Chinese company and the population of the Borsko and Zajecar Management District, the start of gasification should trigger a number of completely new investments, projects and other business activities in the area of eastern Serbia and allow for further revitalisation of this area. As for the geopolitical interest of the pipeline, the pipeline is a project needed to further integrate Serbia into the European Union. It represents a very important interconnection and bond with both Europe and the East, as it will represent the stability of consumer supply to "blue energy" from Russia. It will also represent an alternative gas supply route. It has come only from the direction of Ukraine, and now it will come from the direction of Bulgaria. The charging of transit and transmission of gas through our country to the west will also affect our economy, and most of the gas will be delivered to Hungary, Slovakia and Austria, right across our country. Everything says that Serbia has become not only a leader but also a pillar of stability in the region, but also in the world, because this project shows not only the steel friendship of Serbia and China, but also excellent international co-operation with the Russian Federation, but also with the European Union and other countries of the world, precisely because the pipeline can deliver gas in both directions. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have also says is that, despite all the multilateral and bilateral agreements, in the area of international co-operation, the village's most remote village in eastern Serbia, the village of Metovnica, thanks to its intervention and excellent relations with the Chinese company "Serbia Zijdin", will receive water after nearly half a century, while thanks to the gasification near the city and all villages, means every household from the Borsko to Zajecar County will have savings, because we will be consumers of the cheapest, but also the cleanest gas from Russia. What I deeply believe in is that the local villages of Metovnica, Krivelja, Slatina, Ostrlja, and others, as well as the citizens of the Borski Management District, can only be safe in our president, only in Alexander Vukic. Because he has the hearing to hear, but also to see what our citizens lack and that according to their needs, as a proven great strategist, he will make the best decisions. Thank the President for his support that the village of Metovnica finally gets water, but also for taking care of all of the additional villages from Borski to Zaječar County. That is why in the voting day, I will support the draft laws that will open new economic pages for a more successful future for us and our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7473	Thank you. Now, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, I would like to inform you that we will be working after 1800 hours today, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7474	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get started. The Minister will be in shortly. Docent Dr. Mihailo Jokic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7475	Dear President, gentlemen, I would like, for the sake of the citizens of Valjev, to say that the gas that the Kolubara District will receive is very important and deciding when it comes to the further development of the city of Valjev, because the contract we signed with the German company Bizerba, the contract says that the city must provide gas. That fact itself says that what we're making today, what we're deciding on today, is very important and very important for the town of Valjevo, of course, and for the other factories, is for the rest of the companies, the gas solution, instead of the mule, instead of solid fuel. The new factory we expect to get, also, from Germany, means it's an agreement with the Germans, and one of the conditions is that we have gas in Valjevo, in the industrial zone. So these two facts tell you enough how important it is for Valjevo, for employment, and I don't want to repeat myself, these German companies that are coming will hire a high-level frame, a highly educated frame. Valjev needs those who graduate from technical schools, state colleges, to return to Valjevo. If those who went to finish those technical colleges do not return to Valjevo, there will be nothing from Valjev, there will be no further and future development. The second problem we solve with gas is heating. Warming is a painful point of Valeva. We have a heat that covers somewhere between 10% and 15% of the heating surface. Most of the users, or those who are heated, are warmed up on the mahout, spoke firmly, to coal, which is of poor quality, which ecologically destroys the environment. Life conditions in Valjev are getting harder, especially in winter. We have a problem, and I said that once again, the problem is "Krusik", "Krusik" warms up on the mule. With the gas coming in, we'll solve this problem. We expect, of course, that others will attach to the gas and that, of course, the heating will be cheaper, that the network will expand. We have a long network, but we have few users. Hot water orbits Valjev, and there are no users. Why? Because it was a high price connection. It may not be nice to speak in the first person of one, but I am like an opposition, when some who may never be in power again were, they set high conditions for the connection and of course the citizens couldn't join. Normally, hot water goes through Valjevo, and there are no users anywhere. This will solve the problem with gas. The environmental problem is big, so we're not going to solve everything, but we're going to partially solve the problem, because the particles of this PM 10 and PM 2.5 are at a concentration that is several times greater than that allowed. So in order for people to return, to wish to live in Valjev, the climate has to be fixed, and it will partially improve with gas. I think in this, as Valjevo says, the conditions, Valjevo gets the most, maximum wins and Valjevo will have a rebirth, because Valjevo has been, for a long, long time, what he says, in a stagnation and I hope it stops. Now let me say something about Ratko Young man, what I think. Careful, The Hague tribunal was founded to punish Serbs. Personally, I didn't expect that punishment to be changed. They did it to punish us. That's the relationship that was in the world. But you ask each other a different question. I would ask those who wish to come to power, say, Boris Tadic. Well, couldn't that General Mladic have gone to The Hague, if he had to, let's not open that debate, go as a general, in a general uniform? I've got a picture in front of my eyes, he's gone into a hat, working suit, no diagnosis, some say and hungry. It's a shame. That's what it says about those who were in power. We always have to go a little bit. We couldn't stop, America was dominant, there was no balance, they were doing what they wanted, etc., but we could put General Mladic on VMA for 10, 15 days, to recover, to establish a diagnosis, to give him medication, to then put him on, to go out in the general's uniform and go to The Hague. It's our fault. I can't forget that, and you can do whatever you want. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7476	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7477	I thank the esteemed chairman, the respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – together for our children there is no dilemma when it comes to proposals for laws that are on the agenda today. Of course, we will adopt the proposed laws, primarily because the first law refers to the formation of a national database in order to prevent and combat terrorism, terrorism as a global problem, terrorism as a problem that can only be combated if all institutions are within a state, but also between states related to the common goal of detecting, identifying and sanctioning those involved in terrorism. Also, the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vucic, has no dilemma for our children when it comes to other laws, and it refers to the confirmation of a loan for the gasification of municipalities in eastern Serbia, southern Serbia and western Serbia. What I have to point out is that this idea of gasification of complete Serbia came from the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. On January 1st this year, he opened the Balkans. This has resulted in conditions for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to reach the gas as cheaper and more cost-effective energy. What is important for the Republic of Serbia, for the better life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that gasification will also lead to new investments, and new investments are pulling new factories and new jobs. So gasification is absolutely in line with Serbia's further economic progress, and the economic progress that has so far been made by Serbia thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, but the complete government is also to admire and congratulate everyone in both the EU and the world. What I want to point out now is an impressive address last night by the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic to the Security Council. And we are proud of this impressive address by our President of the Republic because Aleksandar Vukic for the first time for a state-owned, reasoned, precise and clear statement of all those views that the Republic of Serbia has in relation to The Hague tribunal, in relation to the trial, compared to Ratko Mladic's verdict, in relation to the non-delivery in the case of Jojic-Radet. Aleksandar Vukic is a statesman who, first after World War II, had the courage to make it clear and loud to the UN Council that we respect the UN tribunal's mechanism, that the policy of our state is a policy of peace, a policy of stability, but of course the Republic of Serbia will never agree to humiliation. The humiliation of the Republic of Serbia has just marked the entire period of rule from 2000 to 2012 of the yellow tycoon and robbery company. Fortunately, thanks to the citizens' will and thanks to the citizens' faith in Alexander Vukic's politics, this was the end in 2012. The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, armed, of course, except for the state's attitude towards his country and his citizens and his vast legal knowledge, had two clear messages. One message referred to the UN Council, noting that we have fulfilled all obligations towards The Hague, that extradition in the case of Jojic-Radet is not in line with international law, that we condemn all crimes, but that no one has condemned the crimes committed against Serbs, and many crimes have been committed. Also, his second message acted as a serious statesman and was addressed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote the message by Aleksandar Vukic to the citizens of Serbia: "Head up, neither Serbia nor the Serb people are condemned. It's up to us to work harder and open factories, for profit, of course our future and for the sake of our children. “ I must point out that the first statesman to talk about the Jasenovic victims, about the genocide against the Serb people that occurred during World War II in the area of the fascist independent state of Croatia, is Alexander Vukic. In the area of the independent state of Croatia from 1941 to 1945, concentration camps for children were located and tens of thousands of children were killed. That's what no one was talking about, probably for a reason they wouldn't mind someone. This was first said by Aleksandar Vukic, and of course, supported by the film "Dar from Jasenovac", as one testimony about the terrible loss of our people from old people to grandfather in the cradles of World War II. That children were also killed in cradles, in the area of the independent state of Croatia, in Jasenovac, also says that from the sub-cosor region, for example from Donja Dubica, the first soldier stepped down only after 20 years and was sent to the army, because they had just stopped and slaughtered everything that was Serbian from the old man to the children in the cradles. Did anyone talk to Alexander Vukic about a terrible crime, a criminal action, in Croatia that took place in the action "Storm", when she was expelled from her centuries-old hearths of 250 thousand people, I guess just because they have Serbian names and names. That's what no one's ever talked about, to Alexander Wolfie, it seems, had to be kept quiet. Our goal is to go to the future, to stand firm in the present, to build a path for our children to live better, but our task is to speak openly about all the sufferings that have been happening to our people, not to shine on someone, but to make sure they never do it again. Whoever was talking about the criminal action, then the bombing, called "the Merciful Angel", when 78 days, was criminally bombed our country. So 78 days of criminally bombed Serbia and then we were a community of Serbia-Montenegro, and during that time, every day in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, one child was killed. "Invisible" from the plane, they killed our children, and that happened with Milica Rakic, a 3-year-old girl who was on the stretch. She was probably killed because she had a Serbian name. What I want to point out, and what the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, has stated, that we condemn all crimes, that for us and one crime and the murder of one man is great and for us it is a condemnation, and we express our sincere condolences to all the victims, but of course, we cannot and cannot forget our victims for the future, for 1138 years the Serbs in The Hague tribunal are sentenced. Who was convicted of killing Serbs? Nobody. Those who are legally condemned in second-degree procedures are freed, likely, the tears of the Serbian mother do not hurt the same as the tears of some other mother. It's our job to look into the future, to work, to build roads, to build factories, to gas our country, and to become economically stronger and more stable. This is about three draft laws on a gas loan. I must point out that the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, during a tour of Priboj and Prijepolje on 21 May this year, said that gasification will also cover the municipalities of Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica, because it certainly means attracting new investments and a better life for citizens in this part of our Republic. A better life and better quality of life for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a policy that our President Aleksandar Vukic advocates and therefore has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7478	Thank you. The word is Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7479	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, terrorism is the biggest global challenge in the 21st century, which does not choose either place or time, or the victims left behind. Whether it's religious, national or separatistly motivated terrorism, the fight against this monster must be approached with maximum responsibility, systemically and with the application of the most modern technologies. Serbia as a country that had a rough experience with Albanian terrorists in KIM and in the south of central Serbia at the end and early this century, and which was one country with which the terrorist organisation is so-called. The Islamic State said it would be one of its next targets, there is no other choice but to fight terrorism with all available means. As the former foreign minister of the People's Republic of China put it, anti-terrorism is a struggle between justice and evil, between civilization and savagery. We must, and in that struggle, we as a state have always taken the right side. That is why I am particularly pleased with the proposal for a law on the National Anti-Terrorism Database, which is today in front of us. He predicts that this national database will contain not only persons convicted of incriminating acts in the area of terrorism, but also persons who have had any direct contact with terrorist cells. With the help of this unique database, the competent authorities will have far better insight into high-risk data and will be allowed to update them in due time. How important this venture is is also the fact that many developed countries, and more developed than us, do not have such a good database. And this is not an ad hoc or instant passed bill, but part of our country's continuing fight to prevent and combat terrorism, which is clearly defined by the National Strategy for Preventing and Combating Terrorism from 2017 to 2021. The quality of the bill should not be spent much on words, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia educated the Working Group in 2017, which included the largest experts in this area, from the Ministry of the Interior, VBA, VOA, BIA, and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. As a consequence of the operation of a terrorist so-called "terrorist". Kosovo's Liberation Army, in the KIM territory since 1996-1998, as well as after these war events, we have in the heart of the Balkans a state-owned substance calling itself "the Republic of Kosovo", which has become the crucible of terrorists and radical Islamists. Security assessments of the most developed countries, as well as our autonomous states, say more than 300 citizens participated in the Syrian and Iraqi battlefields on the part of the terrorist organisation "Islam State" from the area of KIM. After the war, more than 100 jihadists who now have war experience, who are well trained and have mastered modern technologies, have returned from the KIM, and pose a major threat to the entire region. The announced pressures on the Republic of Serbia in the process of negotiations with Pristina, which we are witnessing these days, at the very least seem illogical, given that Serbia has been a guarantee of peace and stability in the region all these years, leading its policy of dialogue and finding a political and compromise solution on all important issues. On the contrary, the political summit of the so-called The "Republic of Kosovo" does not hide its major-Albanian ambitions, jeopardising not only Serbia's security but also the security of some NATO pact members, such as Montenegro, Greece or northern Macedonia. And instead of pretentious plans for a genocide suit against Serbia or the opening of an institute for Serb crimes in the area of KIM, Mr. Albin Kurti and his associates would be much better if these radical Islamists who are free to walk in Kosovo and Metohija deprived of freedom and to establish an institute that would deal with Islamic fundamentalism and terrorism, who are increasingly meeting fear among peaceful Albanians and members of the Islamic community, our dear neighbours. The hope remains, however, that in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue reason will defeat force, while the practical situation on the ground and objective security risks on the territory of Cosmeta, the naked geopolitical interests of Western countries. As during the first years of its existence, the KLA on the State Department site was defined as a terrorist organisation, I am convinced that official Washington will soon realise that former KIM terrorists have only replaced their war uniforms with war suits with certain institutions and have maintained their old ambitions and carry with them the old risk. Either way, Serbia is and will remain a key and reliable partner to all those who are against terrorism and one of the security guarantees of the entire region. I'd only take a few more minutes to say something that's got my attention these days. In fact, a few days ago, we witnessed the destruction of an Orthodox deity in the village of Konjevići Polje, not far from Bratunc in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because one part, not more than a few meters away, the bell tower of that church entered the courtyard of a lady whose last name Orlović testified that her ancestors might not have believed in that church and that god. And very quickly the great priests and great experts, such as Mr. Miras Dedejic, who supported this and said that this scale was long needed to be abolished and that he would support the abolition of Serbian Orthodox churches in Montenegro's territory as the one in Romania, so I don't suppose they would root out the Serbian name from those areas. I remembered then when during the 2004 Martov pogroms, which aimed at exodus of the Serb population from its centuries-old hearth, was torn down by members of the terrorist KLA and Albanian Orthodox church extremists in Kosovo and Metohija. It should be reminded that since 1998, about 150 churches and monasteries have been torn down in that territory, some built before Kosovo's color and I remember when it was blissfully rested by the Metropolitan Amphilochy Radovic with tears in his eyes, risking his life, defending the Bayrakli mosque in Belgrade from those who neither believe in God nor fear God, who attacked her. This way I would also turn to this respected Mrs. Orlović Fati and these others who ran to congratulate someone inhumane, because I don't know what's decent about watching any church collapse, and I would tell them that God is one and whatever they call him, whether Buddha, whether Jesus, whether Allah, will not tell them, or ever write that it's worth breaking down, that it's worth hating, and that it's worth chasing, but that it's worth loving, forgiving and building. It should build paths that will connect the nations, to build gods in which this people will pray to God, to build hospitals where the people will be treated and factories where we will be employed. That's what SNS policy is run, defined and implemented by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. This concludes, quoting one of our church dignitaries who said: "They are barrels, they are whirlwinds, but Serbs are not straws. As much as we are destroyed, we will be punished, and we will return to build better, stronger, and better, not out of any spite, but out of love for our own and for all the other peoples." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7480	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7481	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on the National Database to prevent and combat terrorism that I will first look at in my presentation. Namely, preventing and combating terrorism is one of the priorities of the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure lasting global and regional stability and only to establish this base represents a significant improvement of the system in this goal, as a single legal framework based on comparative solutions and good European practice is established in this area. This law aims to ensure an effective exchange of data between the national authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism, thus raising the ability of the security system in the Republic of Serbia to respond in a timely and effective manner to this threat, and so far, in the previous period, we could see a clear response from the state and a determined intention to deal with all types of crime. This is a clear message from the state that the law must be respected and that it applies equally to all, regardless of political belonging and regardless of a party membership card that will not save anyone if he has done anything illegal not to answer for it. While some of the former regimes have become multimillionaires overnight on account of citizens of the Republic of Serbia without any sanctions, the state today has a clear view of everyone, including SNS members. If it is proven that they have broken the law, they will bear sanctions for it. It is our duty to the citizens who have given us great confidence in the elections that together with Alexander Vukic we work responsibly and honestly for this country and therefore will not be protected. In the last nine years, Serbia has led a clear and responsible policy of progress and we must not allow individuals to abuse it. We have built a reputation and position in the world, which has brought us a large number of investments, and in the coming period I believe there will be even more, which means more jobs, and also represents a better life for the citizens. Our economy is the most advanced in the whole region, and Serbia is considered the most reliable and most desirable partner in the Balkans. We all made our country a respected and economically strong country together. We should especially be happy about the first quarter results, because they show us that we can achieve growth even greater than the 6% planned, because we expected a decline of -1.3% of GDP, and in the first quarter we already have a 1.2% growth. So by now, we are now at 6.4% or 6.5% of this year's growth, which means we will be back at the top of Europe in terms of the economy. This growth will pave the way for even more investment in infrastructure, investment, and thus the growth of living standards. Today we also have proposals for laws that continue to invest in our country. In addition to investment in road and rail infrastructure, where most has been invested so far, today's proposals for legislation on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia are on the agenda for gasification, even in several districts across Serbia, which my colleagues have mentioned several times in today's debate. These investments will further influence Serbia's development evenly. In this way, it contributes to ensuring equal conditions for life throughout our country's territory. It is about raising the standard of living, opening the door for large, both domestic and foreign investments, and like a chain reaction, this investment will certainly affect the growth of the economy and allow for wage and pension growth, while public debt will remain stable and will not exceed 60% of our GDP. The Serbian economy not only resists the crisis, but also achieves excellent results to which we should be proud. Unfortunately, in addition to all these results, we are witnessing that some are not in favour of strong Serbia, but I am particularly glad that in our Serbia everyone has the right to express their opinion regardless of what it is. We continue, led by Alexander Vukic, to fight for even greater progress in Serbia, so that citizens who now live better than they lived 10 years ago in the coming period can live even better. This way I must again appeal to all the competent authorities to respond to the threats addressed to Alexander Vukic and his family who have become daily, because no president of any country has ever been exposed to so many threats, which crosses all the boundaries of decency, but not all threatening messages will stop Alexander Vukic, nor all of us from fighting for a better, better and more successful Serbia, which is what citizens expect of us. In the day to vote, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7482	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7483	The Honorable Chairman, respected Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens, I will talk about this law on the National Database for Preventing and Combating Terrorism. And that's remarkable, and for weeks now, as for the different points of the agenda, we see how, by many things, remarkable European standards are that require something like this from us. This is the fulfillment of one of them, but in any case we're doing this for ourselves and just creating a base like this and passing one of these laws is extraordinary. So this database represents the realization of our obligations to the EU. So, negotiation chapter 24, it's about him. This base allows for an effective exchange of data between the state authorities, the authorities, to prevent and combat terrorism, and raises the ability of the security system in Serbia. What's important for the further course of my speech, is that, in this National Database, basic data on natural persons, legal persons, groups and organizations is being inputd. All this is important because in Serbia, unfortunately, when we look at both organisations and groups, but also individuals, we have all of them who are dealing and are slowly stepping on our political scene, which deals with terrorism. Previously on Anarchotherism, just anarchy. But when you look at the events 11 months ago in front of this assembly, no one will be able to convince anyone that it wasn't terrorism. So that's exactly what I'm going to say now. That's the darkness. So terrorism, unfortunately, exists in Serbia. Since the Belgrade elections, here, the extremism of the opposition's work led by Gilas, Nogo, Djordjevic, I think Mladjan, Damjan Knezevic and others is becoming more and more pronounced and shows a tendency to transform into pure terrorism. So, numerous death threats, such as hanging, came from these left and right extremist sides to Aleksandr Vukic, Ana Brnabic and many other authorities. To many women, the authorities have received threats of rape – Ani Brnabic, Ireni Vujovic and others. Threats, also, since 2018, have been daily by the violent change of constitutional order on the street, in the blood and courts of the revolution against authorities, and have been advocating and promoting threats by Bosko Obradovic, Jovo Bakic, Goran Markovic, Dragan Velić, Snezana Congradin and Sergey Trifunovic. The anarchy of the late Alliance for Serbia from 2018 and 2019 has slowly grown today, and we saw that last year, in terror. So we know that Gilasov's SAA has organised a series of vandal incidents in Belgrade. The Gilasovites persecuted Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic in front of his home, and then, at the promotion of the book, where they also persecuted people, carried out the burning of books, which, as we know from the past, was done by the Nazis in the 30s, but the Nazis were terrorists. We remember encouraging terror and targeting people through the cover of NIN and "Today" and everything I have said, and there is much more, it really goes in favour of the claim that part of the opposition is fat in terrorism. Proponents of an outdated academic approach to terrorism must be aware that certain definitions of terrorism are rapidly outdated. Let's just say when we look at the rise of cyberterrorism. Still, the textbooks that speak and learn about terrorism have not yet been able to record it. Most of the death threats to Alexander Vukic and members of his family and members of the SNS are now coming anonymously through social networks, and many definitions of terrorism, I will say only two, are in favour of this claim as I speak. I will list only two, one definition of terrorism from the UN's stand, which says: "These are crimes committed with the intention of challenging the state of terror in the public, groups of people, or certain persons for political purposes," the end. NATO's definition of terrorism is "Unlawful use or threat of force or violence against persons or objects in an attempt to force or intimidate a government or society to achieve political, religious and ideological goals", the end of allegations. That is exactly what individuals and groups have been doing in Serbia, especially since 2019. A key event that certainly points to terrorism is an attack on the Serbian Parliament that lasted from July 7th to 14th of last year, meaning full seven days. That terror and that violence, in my opinion, were a classic attempt at a coup. The terror was organised by Djilas, Nogo, Mladjan Djordjevic and Damljan Knezevic. The Gilasian part of the opposition provided a follow-up mass, so the leftists provided a accompanying mass of their supporters, in support of the right extremists. So the first night of terror, I'll remind you, there were five thousand people, three and four -- three thousand, five thousand, six hundred, seven hundred, two hundred and finally one hundred. Police Director Rebic then said that Damljan Knezevic and Srdjan Nogo can be designated as the organisers of the attack on the Assembly. I will remind you that media support for all of this has been provided by television all these days, TV N1, TV Nova S, their portals, portal Gilasov "directly", List Today and again the sea of their portals. In addition to the attacks on the Serbian Parliament, where large material damage was done, 140 police officers were injured, burned and destroyed property, terrorists were then stoned by RTS. They attacked two Tanjug journalists, set fire to five police vehicles, damaged a severe two doors at the entrance to the Assembly, and other damages were done to the Assembly. They burned the containers, destroyed the windows, stole from the shops, burned the cars of the citizens, demoted the plateau outside St. Mark's church, where the monument to Patriarch Paul is located. The authorities then said that there was an apparent involvement of foreign services in the conduct of the entire operation. That these services were involved in witnessing the fact that the BIA then arrested a significant number of foreign citizens who participated in terror and two Israeli, one British, one Tunisian, four Montenegrins and a dozen BiH citizens. There was also terrorist equipment found in those faces. Several times in front of this assembly, journalists recorded thugs saluting in front of the Assembly with a Nazi greeting "Heil Hitler". It was just another piece of evidence of that fascist character of violence and terror. Umberto Eko has said in his time in fascism there is no fight for life, on the contrary, life is only lived for fighting. That's why pacifism is a collaboration with the enemy. Gilas's fake pacifists and anti-fascists were behind fascists who committed direct violence. And that the attack was a key argument on this assembly was terrorism testifying to the US president's stance on the attack on Congress that happened that same year only in January 2020, which was lighter than the attack on the Serbian Parliament. So, the attack on Congress lasted one day, on the Serbian Parliament seven, eight, and there was injured 10 times less cops than here. U.S. President Joseph Biden strongly condemned the attack on Congress. In his address on January 7, he said: “Do not you dare call them protesters. It's a vandal mob, rebels, domestic terrorists," near the quote. From everything said, a clear parallel can be drawn with an attack on the Serbian Parliament. So today we can tell everyone who supported the attack on the Serbian, Gilasov and Solak media, N1, Nova S, Today, NIN, Time, what Joseph Biden said – that you did not dare call them the attackers of the Serbian Assembly. It is a vandal mob, rebels, domestic terrorists and Joseph Biden best characterized Gilas, Noga, Djordjevic and others then -- domestic terrorists. Now I'm going to say something about domestic domestic terrorism. I would remind you that this year, in February, there was an arrest of the Belivuk-Zvicer terrorist and mob clan, a paramilitary, armed wing of a broad group with only one goal -- the murder of President Vukic and the violent change of government. The group, a military wing, along with the armed one has a political wing, financials and ideologists, employers and instigators, and otherwise in the world most terrorist groups have their own less or more legal political wing and subparoles. However, so far it has turned out and has largely shown worldwide that political wing members and patrons themselves are terrorists. So we have here the former vice president of the Football Club "Partizan" who has since resigned as the patron of the Belivuk-Zvicer armed wing and has therefore been at the SBPOK hearing twice. The answer to the question of who makes the political wing of terror is clear, all those who have been calling back for years for a violent change of government, for courts of revolution, for the liquidation of President Vukic and his family members, for the liquidation of SNS officials and for all who have so far called for violence or have organised political violence, all of them should enter this base, into this register. I'll just remind you that the amount of weapons and explosives found in the Belivuk-Zvicer terrorist clan in the building of terror owned by this mob group and terrorist group in Ritopek indicate that it's not just the mafia, it's internal terrorism. Watch out, more than 10 kilos of plastic explosives, five anti-infantry mines, four bombs, two tromble mines, one tromble gun, one large-caliber machine that serves as an attack on armored passenger vehicles, 12 machine guns, six snipers, 10 rifles, four guns and a large amount of ammunition, and it is reasonable to assume that these terrorists and mobsters of the Zvicer-Belivek clan still have hidden weapons in Serbia. In addition to everything I'm saying, and the following facts -- remember the testimony of the hit man Chaba Dera, who said that two mafia-terrorist groups from Serbia-Montenegro offered to kill the president of Serbia. Let's remember, and that's also a thing that proves terror, listening to the president of Serbia and to people close to him for 18 months. Let's remember two hearings at the SBPOK former state secretary of the MUP. Let us remember the statement by the UN chief that the assassination of Serbia's president has been prepared. Let's remember the hearing at the SBPOK, former president of the FSS. We recall two hearings in the SBPOK of former FK Vice-President "Partizan", now Zvicer-Belivek's subpar, which he founded and founded, announced his own party, possibly pedophile and man-eating men. What is significant is that all those invited by the SBPOK have refused a polygraph of this number of times. I already said there's a political wing of the mob and terrorists. Let us remember again all these threats of hangings, rapes and violent protests, and it is impossible not to see that all this in full intensity began the moment that Gilas returned to politics in the beginning of that year, and statistics is inexorable and again I am talking about terror that is directed against the SNS. Statistics are inexorable. Since Gilas returned to politics in this second round since the beginning of 2018, the number of attacks on SNS has quadrupled. By then there were 10 attacks over five years, from 2013 to 2018, and from 2018 to today, over three and a half years the SNS room was 40 times the target of attack, ignition and destruction. I'll remind you that Dragan Gilas himself participated in a series of violent events. We remember his many threats and curses addressed to the police officers both in 2015 and 2019 when he threatened to lose his job if he came back to power. Let us remember his threats and objections in the City Assembly when he attacked our present-day MP Mirkovic, who is head of the council in the City Assembly. Let us remember how he insulted and cursed students from the Marks 21 group. We remember that he led the attack on RTS in 2019, remembering that Djilas had repeatedly taken pictures with criminals accused of serious crimes against Vladimir Japanese, Milutin Bakic and Milan Dabovic. Let us remember that Dragan Gilas has threatened President Vukic directly many times over the past three years. So, in an interview with Truthomer on September 5th, he said -- we're going to bring down this fascist power, this power is, in my opinion, fascist. Also on February 2, 2021, he said – for nine years Western Europe and America have been directly supporting Vukic in the project of introducing a neo-fascist system to Serbia, on May 3, 2020, Gilas directly threatened Vukic and insulted him, told him – you're an asshole, sicko one, you'll be responsible for this when I guarantee you. At a press conference on February 18th 2021, Gilas threatened President Vukic directly again, he says, "You're afraid and you should be afraid that I'm in your shoes too." Dragan Gilas is the only person in Serbia, with this ending, which uses and abuses its vast wealth against the state. Only Gilas in Serbia has enough resources, power and media to be a financier, an inspirer, a trustee, an ideologist. As we can see, terrorism is not about suicides, assassinations and bombs, but about what Gilas, Nogo, Mladjan Djordjevic and their followers are doing in Serbia. Because of everything I've stated, I'm asking that the future database of these terrorist databases, so the national database is being seduced and the basic data on all natural and legal persons, groups and organisations that participated in the attack on RTS 2019, in the attack on the Assembly in 2020, and all members of the mob-terrorist group Zvicer-Belivek. "Tirana is more of a habit that goes into need," Dostoevski said. Long live Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7484	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7485	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected Serbian citizens: "Our shadows will walk in Vienna, wandering around the court scaring the gentleman." These are the anthological words that are prescribed to Gabriel Principe as their author, in a prison in Terezin in which he died in the spring of 1918 in just the evening of World War I. Gabriel Princip died, then convicted of the most significant or perhaps condemned by one of the most significant courts of that time. Now he died, of course, despised and branded as a terrorist, assassin and villain. Vice President Orlic, you will forgive me for perhaps making you think that I am coming out of the topic, but given the seriousness of the political moment and the political events that are happening in both Serbia and the region these days, if you will in Europe, you will understand and understand this, and on the other hand, I will confirm to you by my argument that I am still on the subject. Gabriel Principe was convicted and didn't need any rehabilitation. Gavril Principe rehabilitated history, Gavril Principe rehabilitated the people's memory, both the peoples in Serbia and other peoples in Europe, whatever his judgment at the time was the most significant court in Europe. But you will admit that at the time of his arrest, detention, and even at the time of his death in Terezino, Serbia was in an almost hopeless situation at the very least difficult and probably never more difficult in its history. If we look back, I wonder if the people of that time and those Serbs could assume this time and today's Serbia? Hardly. It was hard for people of that age to see Serbia as it is today, especially considering the situation in which Serbia was at the time. And here again some Serbs face the challenges of this time, in the courts of this time, at least formally the most significant in today's Europe. And here's some judgments again. Here again, Serbia, the Serbian authorities, the Serbian people, face some new challenges, and they will not be challenging and remain only on those who come outside, as we have seen these days. These challenges will also take place within Serbia itself. Ask me how? Well, I'm sure that Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas, will re-activate her request that in light of the latest events this respectable home, the National Assembly, will declare its own people genocide. Marinika Tepic did so in the last meeting, this respectable home rejected the proposal. I have no doubt that through the media, through the association of citizens, through political parties, to which she and her political mentor today will reactivate that request and ask the same thing of this National Assembly. Here are Serbia's new challenges. But here are Serbia's new words to be remembered just as much as the 1918 Gabriels. This time, they're pronounced by the Serbian president. I'll quote them, they're a little longer, but they've been heard by the whole world. The Serbian president says: "Head up, neither Serbia nor the Serbian people are condemned. It is up to us to work harder and open factories." Here are new words to lead Serbia both to justice and to security and to factories and to hard work. Here's Mr. Orlic and my arguments that and how in my speech today I find myself in the subject. Isn't the Vice President's proposal for a law on a national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism exactly the way towards justice and the security of each of us? Isn't a respected minister this base a means by which we will be able to identify all potential terrorist threats and potential terrorists, ready to threaten this Serbia, law, justice and security? Isn't the gasification of Paracina, Bolecac, Negotina and the law that predicts it and isn't the gasification of Leskovec, Vranja and the law that predicts it and the gasification of Valjev and Loznica, which I particularly like, at the very edge of Republika Srpska, just the way to factories and hard work? Because there are no factories where there are no good pipelines, or at least there are no serious factories. Serious factories, hard work, investments also require serious gas infrastructure. Isn't all that I've just told you, the way to the fulfillment of the word of this modern-day Serbian Gabriel Principe? Isn't this the way to achieving the words of the Serbian president, who said last night out loud that he heard them all over the world? There's also evidence that I've been on the subject. Thank you, Vice President, thank you, dear colleagues. Serbia, head up. Long live Serbia, lived Republika Srpska, lived our people in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7486	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. Let me tell you right now that you've convinced me completely that you're speaking on the subject. The word is Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7487	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, terrorism is a form of violence that threatens both internal and international security. Modern terrorists are mainly a category of discreet and thoughtful individuals for whom terrorism is a rational choice of achieving its political goals. They chose the path of bloodshed, fear and panic all over the world. The possibility of using weapons of mass destruction is not ruled out. The terrorist's goal is to create insecurity, impotence, mistrust in the state government that is required in one country to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. In the fight against terrorism, the necessity of forming this base is more than necessary. In it, we will be able to find information that will give us answers to questions – who are terrorists, what are terrorist groups, organisations, and one important question – who is funding them? More specifically, whether it's a legal person or a natural person, whether it's registered or not on the United Nations list or a national terrorist list or a list of terrorist organisations. We'll also find information about persons who have already had terrorist activities. The national database will be a database of existing competent authorities. Intelligence is considered the first fight against terrorism. Data collection, base formation and exchange with other institutions and its analysis are key preconditions of the anti-terrorism strategy. We are witnessing pressure on Serbia, especially on our President Alexander Vukic, with a desire to stop Serbia's further progress. As has been said, Serbia has started producing vaccines in the "Torlak" "Sputnik V" in co-operation with Russia, and very soon the construction of a Sinofarm factory is beginning to work together with our Chinese associates. This puts Serbia at an end to the influence of the pharmaceutical mafia. Serbia will never be okay waiting for charity and crumbs again, so it can vaccinate its citizens. The Serbian government's responsible policy, our president, speaks of making Serbia better and more successful. Under the rule of green and environmental concerns, Serbia suffers the pressure of great powers with the help of its servants in Serbia. Two hundred fifty million dinars were invested in national parks and environmental protection, creating wastewater processing plants, recycling centres, as well as a project by the Ministry of Environment and Education on the education of children by schools in order to achieve awareness and concern for cleaner air, cleaner land, cleaner water. The firm commitment to the fight against crime also speaks clearly about the contribution of the president of the Palilu municipality, that no one will be exempt from implementing the law on the origin of the property. With this move, the ruling party shows that the people are in first place, as well as responsibility to the people's voice. And this is a message to the people, as well as to everyone in the government and the opposition that they will have to make an account and explain from where the large capital comes from the average annual salary. Investors are coming to Serbia announcing new investments in a number of new factories that will employ 18,000 i.e. 16.835 workers, thereby further reducing unemployment and improving the standard of our citizens. The total investment commitment for these factories is 2,067,400 euros and that, I will read both cities and factories. In Jagodina "Fisher", the car industry of plastic parts of the interior, the planned number of employees 400. Cupria, "Feca" - car industry production of light elements and mirrors, planned number of employees 130. ‘SNP’ production premium parts for vehicle interior, planned number of employees 445. Loznica and Shabac, "Mint-1" and "Mint-2", automotive industry, planned number of employees 1,000, Kraljevo, "Leoni" car industry cable sets, planned number of employees 4,500. Panchevo, world producer of wind turbine transmissions, planned number of employees 281. "Bross Group" production of electric pumps and cooling engine, planned number of employees 1,100. Indjija, Gruundfos pump production, planned number of employees 300. Stara Pazova, MTV Aero factory for remonting parts of aircraft engines, planned 440 employees. Surcin, Nestle Conditor Industry, Planned Number of Employees 197. Novi Sad, "Continental" production of high-tech car interior parts, planned number of employees 501. "Beri Kalebo" chocolate factory, planned number of employees 100. Japanese "Nidek" electric motor production, planned number of employees 500. “BMTS technologji” car industry for the production of turbo chargers, the planned number of employees 500. Valjevo, Bizerba scale factory, planned number of employees 305. Zrenjanin, "Linglong" car tire production, planned number of employees 1,200. Nis, light production and rear lights for cars, the planned number of employees 1,000. Kruševac, Henkel new drive, chemical industry detergent in capsules, planned number of employees 100. Janfeng Tray System motor industry metal frames for car seats, planned number of employees 162. Zaječar, "Aptiv" production of cable installations, planned number of employees 2,500. Subotica, the Boysen car industry of the exhaust, the planned number of employees 400. In the end, I appeal to the Belgrade University, as well as to the Ministry of Education to react, make a statement, state their position, make a statement on morbid statements and threats by the Faculty of Law professor Vladimir Vuletic. We were witnesses that they reacted to much smaller events, but now nothing, shut up. The man who threatens Alexander will end up in kebabs. He presents himself as the brother of Veljko Belivuk, who used to grind many of his opponents in a meat grinding machine and make kebabs. Then this statement is a serious threat to the extended arm of the mob. In the day to vote, support the bill, as well as my parliamentary group, Alexander Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7488	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7489	Dear Vice President Orlic, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow only a few sentences on the draft law on the national database for the prevention and fight against terrorism. Since my colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about it, let me just say why we need these laws, that is, this law. For at least two reasons. You will all agree on an effective fight against terrorism and that is not disputed. Secondly, because of the implementation of the Action Plan for the negotiating chapter 24 with the EU, which bears the name, I particularly underline - justice, freedom and security for Serbia's EU accession. I particularly underline - justice and freedom, because one political champion party bears the name - justice and freedom, and I will say something about it especially later. All the above-mentioned solutions to this law have two objectives. First, to introduce in a transparent way the data storage process into the database, its content, access to data, their use and protection with a special emphasis on respect for international human rights and freedoms standards. Not only that, but also secondly, to provide a good exchange of data between the state authorities responsible for the prevention and fight against terrorism, thereby raising the level of security in the Republic of Serbia, and in particular this applies to the ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, Honorable Vice President Dr. Orlic, justice when it comes to justice, and here we have seen that the chapter, as I said, bears the name 24, has no justice without justice. I believe you'll agree with that. Let me now say that the former government boasted that it had implemented judicial reform in the period from 2008 to 2012, and in fact what was it doing? They have brought the judiciary to the lowest possible level in the history of Serbia's judiciary. During Gilas and Jeremic's reform, the judiciary became the worst in Europe, which is not just me, and the European Commission then gave that assessment. The judiciary has reduced the dismissal of 832 judges, mostly the best judges, and about 200 prosecutors, about 1,000. These consequences today we feel and the fight against terrorism makes it difficult for us to do exactly what they did. They were brought to their seats by judges who were exclusively members of the Democratic Party, in their characteristics it was. We've read the individual characteristics of these judges here at the same time. They didn't take care of the expertise or the training or at least the dignity of the judges. And look at the miracles, ladies and gentlemen, you won't believe me that they brought to the Department of Justice a ministerial assistant who didn't have a law degree. And what did you expect from this ministry? What did you expect at that time from the justice courts that they really brought him to? The European Commission's 2010 report quoted him as saying, "Reforms conducted by the government in Serbia", then, whether, Jeremic, Djilasov and Tadic, "represents special concerns, the judges' re-election process was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence. The reforms carried out by the authorities were the worst possible thing," the statement concluded, says the European Commission's report, and it was published, ladies and gentlemen, in the book "Court Reforms in Serbia from 2008 to 2012," on page 96, by Belgrade's "Politika" 7.7.2012. Dear Vice-President Dr Orlic, the Republic of Serbia has adopted a strategy for judicial reform, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on July 1st 2013, and in the second year of 2018, there is no strategy anywhere during their rule. The national strategy for judicial reform has foreseen seven elements, which are very important for entering the European Union, which are: independence, impartiality, expertise, training, responsibility, efficiency of the judiciary and dignity. Those seven elements are very important. What is very important is that the National Strategy for Justice Reform has provided for and the need to amend the Constitution in a work relating to the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the process of electing judges and authorising judges, the president of the courts and the State Council of Prosecutors. That's what we've been talking about these days in this high house, when it comes to changing the Constitution. The amendments to the Constitution, I underline in particular, also the Justice Strategy 2020-2025. Why I'm saying this, you'll see it now. These days we're also doing the realization of this process. The current constitution, the Republic of Serbia, was declared on 8.11.2006, therefore, during the rule of Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. And behold, before the adoption of the constitution by the Venice Commission, or the European Commission for Democracy, an opinion was asked on the chapter on the judiciary and some recommendations by the Venice Commission, the government of Gilas and Jeremic accepted, but, I underline, the largest number of proposals did not take into account. And today we correct these mistakes, and not only in the field of justice and the fight against terrorism, but in all areas of our country's social and economic development. Dear ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the Constitution in 2007, the Venice Commission has warned and expressed concern over the excessive role of parliament in the appointment of the judiciary to the judicial independence it represents, you will agree, the condition of democracy. The Venice Commission concluded that political parties would control the judiciary, and I said at first, the Democratic Party used it, so I say, completely, because in the biography of every judge, we read it here, it was that they were members of the Democratic Party, if not members, then also lovers. What is important, in the past 14 years, our constitutional science national has seen a series of weaknesses in the work of the Constitution relating to justice and justice, especially with regard to the independence of the judiciary and other elements. These days we are correcting this and I believe that the next amendments to the Constitution will regulate the judiciary so that we will achieve independence, impartiality, expertise, training, responsibility, dignity, efficiency, all seven elements owned by courts in the European Union. This will also bring our judiciary in line with the legal assets of the European Union. Dear Vice President, for years the propaganda machine has lied about President Vukic, his parents and his family, has been sprayed by tycoon-mafian political groups and individuals both abroad and domestic implementations. The latest inventions of President's brother by Borislav Novakovic of Novi Sad, otherwise the director of the former Institute of Construction, are part of the daily inventions aimed at demonising the character and work of President Vukic in the media under the control of Dragan Djilas and there is no dilemma, the same were done by the same people, the same media and in 2000, when it led to what it led to. Gilas daily, without any reason, insults President Vukic. So in 20.1.2018, Gilas brutally insulted President Vukic just because the president visited our perilous people in Kosovo and Metohija, he brought them help. Gilas said, quote, "Wolf, shame on you," just because he visited our perilous people in Kosovo and Metohija and brought help. Can you believe, honourable Members of the People, that this is what the Gicky Mafia has said? And in 05.5.2020 on the show on N1, I really must say to the infamous, Gilas said, quote, "Wolf, you're crazy." Asking a journalist: “Will you stop doing that? “ Gilas replied, and I quote, “I will strengthen it, ” and repeated several times: “Wolve, you are crazy. ” And great Olya Beckovic, you know what she was saying? The rest is gone. Now, that's how Olja Bećkovic and that machine N1 works. Just to warn the citizens, I'm recording this, I have about 200 pages of their lies told about President Vukic and the MPs in this high house, and I'm going to publish it. To see the machine pull out a lie, one sentence, and then it spins for 24 hours. That's not what Goebbels was doing either. And in 14.4.2020, Giki Mafia quoted him as saying, "Wolf, you're not even normal." In 17.11.2020, I make this easy on Palibrka's lawyer, as he will file criminal charges, to make it easier for him, verbally offended President Vukic only because "Belgrade on Water" is being built. You should not be surprised by the honourable MPs, everything that has been built since 2012, Đilas, Jeremic and Tadic attack, and then I quote - you should be crazy to take down a bus stop and transfer traffic to a temporary bus station, finished quote. They're against building every factory. Gilas continues to insult, so on 16 April 2020 he said, quote – Vukic has mental problems, has some disorders, shame and any Vucic, you are a crazy man, finished quote. On 13 May 2018, Gilas insulted President Vukic by calling him a fascist, and the state of Serbia a fascist country, and I still could not count for days and months, but what is important is to say that it is not only the Djiki Mafia that insults President Vukic, but also Vuk Jeremic's leader, one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds. He said and insulted Vucic's brother by calling it a quote – the boss of the mafia, Aleksandr Vukic said to quote – Vukic was a man of gravely impaired health, finished quote, on December 30, 2018 and recently repeated, back 15 days repeated this sentence. I could talk for days about the bastard Jeremiah, but I won't. But I will ask only three questions before the citizens of Serbia and before you. First of all, is it true, Mr. Jeremic, that you received as much as $7.9 million in your giro account between 2013 and 2017? Explain to the citizens of Serbia, in the name of what you got and from who. The second question, is it true, and I claim it is, that it is $4.5 million that you have been paid by phantom energy companies operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong, where you operated with your close friends and associates who have been arrested in the United States for corruption and money laundering Patrick Hoo and Sheik Tidian Gadji, whether it's true or not to go on TV screens and tell me. And, third question - is it true, Mr. Wolfe Jeremic, that you received $120,000 from Qatar in New York and the embassy in Berlin, $200,000? Dear Vice President, Dr Orlic, since I was one of the witnesses in The Hague at the trial of the century, Mr Milosevic's witness, it is my turn to say only a few sentences. I'm not going to talk about judgments, and let me just say three sentences, because it should take days to reveal the truth of what happened from 1990 to today, not only in The Hague tribunal, but in the area of the former Yugoslavia. But I will say that The Hague tribunal is the largest legal, political and moral freak of the 21st century, founded by an illegal UN body, and you gentlemen of the lawyers in this high house know if the illegal authority has established that all decisions that this body makes, such as the UN tribunal, are not valid in the future. It was founded with only one task to condemn only Serbian champions, undermining Serbian champions for the purpose of Satanising Serbs and Serbia, by the United States, the Vatican, Germany and NATO, to cover up their responsibility for breaking Yugoslavia and nothing caused by Serbia's bombing. This is the purpose of The Hague tribunal, because the founder of Theodor Merol, the 21st century villain, said, quote - let's, establish an ad hoc tribunal to put all Serbian champions in it, ask him why - because the people are behind them, finished quote. And, in the end, ladies and gentlemen of the truth, the truth slowly, but it must come to the surface, undermining. Today, a large number of political factors from the 1990s, to date and true scientists have found unquestionably that Yugoslavia has been broken by the United States, Germany, the Vatican and NATO along with secessionist republics of Slovenia and Croatia. Thank President Vukic for telling the world last night and the city of Orbis Turb the truth about The Hague tribunal and its verdicts and thus helped restore not only Serbia, but also the reputation of the UN Security Council and the organisation that lost the last 30 years. Finally, while our President Vukic daily, as you can see last night, returns the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, which has been hit in Gilasovo, Tadic and Jeremic's time by conducting a policy of peace, security policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all our citizens in Serbia and the region, a policy of accelerated economic modernisation of Serbia, a policy of long-term, fair, compromise solution of our southern Serbian province so far, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, daily poisons citizens of the Republic of Serbia, various inventions and lies about Alexander Vukic and his family, only to cover their accounts by various destinations around the world. Respected citizens will come to justice for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7490	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is Dragana Branković Minčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7491	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank, and in order to raise long-term credit, JP "Serbia" Novi Sad, and on the basis of the agreement on the gasification of the rabbit and pine district, and the construction of a divorce pipeline, Paracin Bolvac Rgotin Negotin Prahovo. The part of the Republic of Serbia, which is not covered by the natural gas transport system, is exactly the area of eastern Serbia. The eastern Serbian area covers two districts, and this pipeline will cover part of Zajecarsko and part of the Borsko County, where the towns and municipalities of Zajecar, Knjižec and Bolec, Bor and Negotin are located. The supply of other municipalities in these two districts is foreseen by some other projects. The project is worth 66m euros and the payment deadline is 8 years and the interest rate is 1.78%. The area of eastern Serbia is an area of great industrial capacity, but it does not possess natural gas as energy. This part of eastern Serbia that will be covered by this pipeline, otherwise 210,000 people live in the area, of which 106,000 in the Bora County and 104,000 in Zajecar County. In addition to existing potentials and many other potentials in eastern Serbia, which exist in industrial production, what is very important is that an international project is being built in the next period, which is an international chemical part in Prahovo, which is interested in large investors from the EU, China and India. The construction of the Paracin-Boljevac-Rgotin-Negotin-Prahovo divorce pipeline with divisions for Zaječar, Književac and Bor, creates the possibility of building distribution systems in each settlement in eastern Serbia, and thus connecting industrial municipal and individual consumers to this distribution system. In this way, all citizens of eastern Serbia will be able to use natural gas as a cheap, eco-like energy and also easy to use. Also, using natural gas as energy will reduce pressure on Serbia's electricity system. The natural gas transport system in the Republic of Serbia is a line system with only one entry into the Republic of Serbia. The basic problem of the gas pipeline system in the Republic of Serbia is an underdeveloped pipeline network. By building this pipeline and many others on the agenda, we are just solving this problem, expanding the pipeline network, on the one hand, and on the other hand creating the possibility of interacting with neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Macedonia. All this will impact in the future that the price of gas in the country of Serbia will be lower, as the current price of gas is formed based on the price of gas on the world market. All of this is foreseen in the strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia when energy is at stake by 2025 with projections at 2030. What is also important to point out is that the use of natural gas as an energy that reduces emissions of harmful substances in the atmosphere will reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particles and unburned hydrocarbons, and eventually reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide, so much mentioned carbon dioxide emissions in today's period when climate change is concerned when it comes to holes in the ozone envelope. Namely, the city of Zaječar where I come from is known for so-called. The London fog type, which is created during the heating season. The emission of methane to the atmosphere is due to poor combustion of hydrocarbons, poor combustion of solid fuels used by many households in the town of Zajecar. Just using natural gas as an energy source, we're gonna solve this problem and there's not gonna be a London-type fog. By building this pipeline, we will give an additional impulse to develop the region of eastern Serbia, and will also give a clear signal to all potential investors that the state of Serbia, municipalities and cities located in eastern Serbia have a clear intention of investing, investing and building this region of eastern Serbia. With the construction of a gas pipeline divorce system in eastern Serbia, the possibility of starting a new era in the development of eastern Serbia will be created. New investments, new projects, various new activities in the region will come and there will be the possibility of revitalisation of eastern Serbia's space. The basic economic potential of eastern Serbia is, above all, based on the abundance of natural resources. First of all, I think of a healthy environment, a healthy natural environment, also very rich and extraordinary hydroenergy potential. Also, eastern Serbia has excellent conditions for tourism development, rich wood wealth, excellent conditions for agricultural development. However, eastern Serbia has a long tradition of industrial production development. In fact, at the time of Serbia's industrialization, a large number of people were employed in large industrial giants that existed in Zajecar. These are: Crystal Zaječar, Pirara Zaječar, Milker Zaječar, Porcela Zaječar. A lot of people from the village have been dragged into town for employment in these great industrial giants. Unfortunately, as we have heard more than once in this House, the privatisation process has not yielded the expected results and a very large number of people have lost their jobs. It is precisely this gasification of eastern Serbia that we will at least partially solve this problem, because we will be able to bring those investors who, as a precondition for their arrival in eastern Serbia, are looking primarily for developed pipeline and infrastructure. Speaking of infrastructure, I would only mention a few things, and this is the following: that many funds have been invested in eastern Serbia and the town of Zaječar in recent years in order to build roads and build road infrastructure. What is foreseen by the 2025 development plan is to invest a billion euros in the development of eastern Serbia when it comes to road infrastructure and to building 700km of roads, and out of it 350km of fast traffic. What is currently being done in the town of Zaječar, this is the highway Zaječar – Književec, which will facilitate the journey to Nis, to the south of the country, also Negotin – Zaječar. What Zaječar is also known for is Felix Romuliana. It is one of the 12 sites on Serbia's territory under UNESCO's protection. In the period until 2025, the plan is to build a visionary centre, which would attract a lot of tourists, which from the country, from abroad. Also, the town of Zaječar is famous for the Gitariada. The town of Zaječar is a museum of deadlines, so a museum of deadlines will be built in the next period in the town of Zaječar. What may be most important is the construction of the Aptiv factory, whose start of work will take place in the phases of the next period and in the last phase, it is planned that the factory in Zajecar employs about two and a half thousand people, which is a major step ahead when it comes to young people staying in Zajecar and employment. Finally, what I would like to say and what is very important is that all of this would not be if the state of Serbia had no clear foreign policy, a clearly defined internal policy and that our President Aleksandar Vukic did not have a clear vision of the future. I ask you to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7492	Thank you. The word is Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7493	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all aware of the pressure Serbia is under and what trials we are yet to face in the matter of Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore I would like to direct my support to President Aleksandar Vukic in the fight for Serbian national interests. Today's topic is essential for the priorities set by the SNS as the main policy-makers of this country, which are primarily the preservation of peace, political and economic stability as preconditions for further development of the state, as well as the preservation of the independence of territorial integrity and independent decision-making. Prevention and the fight against terrorism is an important issue in achieving the security policy objectives in an effort to protect national security, but also in an effort to ensure lasting global and regional stability and to establish a national database for the fight against terrorism is part of Serbia's general efforts to improve the anti-terrorism system. Serbia unfortunately faced this dangerous phenomenon in Kosovo and Metohija by the terrorist and separatist KLA during the Kosovo and Metohija wars in the 1990s, but also afterwards. Such action was aimed at creating a major Albania or a large Kosovo, i.e. uniting the ethnic territory they considered as the territory of Albanians, and it was a universal model of the functioning of a terrorist organisation, in this case the KLA, which was financed exclusively through criminal sources, arms smuggling, drug trafficking and human beings, and that, I said, applied the KLA's leadership at the time. This opened and created a smooth and constant inflow of funds for terrorist activities, and the leading figures of the KLA as the loudest Albanian patriots in a short time came into enormous wealth. What is most terrible in this story is the report by Dick Marty, who confirms that there are earthquake facts and many indications that the KLA committed crimes that have remained unpunished and never been investigated. In a report made by Mr Marti following a years of investigation initiated by former UN prosecutor Carla del Ponte, who revealed to the public that KLA members were killing civilians and trading, unfortunately, their organs. There are also a number of concrete indications showing that Serbs and Albanians were taken to northern Albania's territory in various places and that they were tortured by KLA members and that their authorities ended up in some Western European countries at the time. Whether justice will ever be served, we will see in the years ahead, but what is certain is that these crimes must not be forgotten. What we must also not forget is that Aljbin Kurti would certainly not have been a candidate for the prime minister of the provisional Pristina institutions that in 2000 DOS ministers and Vojislav Kostunica did not pass the scandalous Amnesty Act, which left Albin Kurti and 2,000 other KLA members amnesty and who have become free citizens from that moment on. Finally, the exceptional policy of protecting state, national and vital interests, led by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, the UN issue shifted KIM to the EU and created borders in Brnjak and Jarinj. When you think it's the end of this whole absurd story, you come to the judgment of the Court of Appeal in 2013 that so-called The Gnillan group, accused of the ugliest and worst crimes on KIM, releases the blame. And today we experience that some judges from that court are teaching moral lessons, giving us lectures and salty minds. All those topics that are being driven here are something that is very important and that are just a reaction to anomalies and to the appearances of individuals who abuse their judicial functions and give credibility to their public performances by those politicians and those parties with whom they are obviously involved, because what other conclusion we could draw when their actions are clearly coordinated. A tycoon politician comes to his tycoon TV and makes a statement to his tycoon portal, they talk all day about it, and ultimately, their credibility to have some judge do their public appearance on the same show, on the same television. And then they get very upset when they hear the reactions of this House from the MPs, because whoever dares to say anything about their profound philosophical thoughts and their fantasies, because they are the ones who are obviously in this country allowed to say whatever they want and not to bear absolutely no responsibility and consequences for their spoken words. In one such state where media darkness and the dictatorship of the president of the state are supposed to be called a mental patient, and all of us here are fools and ignorant, and so is the circle day by day. Respected representatives of the Justice Ministry if the constitutional changes we made Tuesday create a judiciary capable of examining the property of a man who in the Western states and countries around the world has millions of bills, I'm absolutely in favour. If he succeeds in bringing to justice all those who, in the absence of their ideas and politics, are destroying this high house and this city, I am absolutely in favor. If they succeed in bringing in all those who every day give the most disgusting lies about the President of the Republic and who are having false affairs, which has long ceased to be part of the political struggle, I am certainly in favour. Unfortunately, in this country, such an atmosphere has been created that it is most normal to threaten the president of the state on a daily basis and want to make a normal state of mind for one such lunatic to realize his crazy plan and for all of us to accept it perfectly normal. Threats to Wolfie, nothing new, that's what we're used to, who cares about it. I believe we will succeed in creating a judiciary that will be able to deal with all these problems. And what this party certainly showed is that it is different from others and that it is ready to go from itself and that it is ready to be reckoned with those in their own ranks who think they are greater than this party, that they are by God and who have sinned against the laws of this country. Certainly their party book won't and must not be a protection. The Serbian Progressive Party is an idea and is made up of decent and honest people and about two million votes that we received in the previous elections. This support must not be misused, and this support must not question the irresponsible behaviour of individuals and each should bear consequences for its actions. These days, weeks and months, we often talk about party dialogue. The Serbian Progressive Party is absolutely ready to listen to all requirements and improve electoral conditions. It is our duty, as the largest and strongest parties in this country. What is certain is that we will not agree to blackmail, we will not agree precisely because of this huge support that we have from the Serbian people. My message to all those who think they can come to power without a choice is that in this country the people are wondering and that they will wonder as long as the SNS is in power. In 2012, we won the election under their electoral conditions. At that time, we only asked for the will of the Serbian citizens to be questioned in the elections. We didn't run from them. Today's opposition in Serbia is unique in the world. In all ways, they try not to come to the election and boycott these elections that are regular and which are an expression of the will of the people. And all the demands are summed up in one, which is that Alexander Vukic is not involved in politics, because apparently that fear is that he can never be defeated in any election too much in the ranks of the said opposition. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to continue to work in the best interests of the Serbian citizens, to follow and follow the policy that President Aleksandar Vukic has made, and our fight is undoubtedly correct, our goal is a decent and successful Serbia, and we must never give up on this goal and we will never give up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7494	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7495	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear guests from the ministry, above all, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will talk today about the proposal for a law on the National Database to prevent and combat terrorism. I believe that terrorism is a monster, a cancer of a society, and that it should be radically eradicated. There has been terrorism in all countries, and since mankind exists, there has always been killings of emperors, kings, warlords, there have always been people who wanted to take over power in this terrifying, morbid way. Usually terrorism has a political goal, but also the intimidation of people. Let's just remember the murder of our prime minister, Mr. Djindjic, it's never happened again, there's been indications that our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, will be killed, but that will never happen. Remember only yesterday's speech, one great statesman, one great patriot, who gave us all wings, we, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should follow the example, a man with a lot of honor, honesty and great patriotism. In Serbia, terrorism is mostly minimal, because we are a people, I think of people living in the Republic of Serbia, full of empathy. Well, look at how we treat people who go through our country in transit, to migrants, with a lot of respect, love, drink, we help them. That's how it works. What do you need? To be in a different mood for them, to have bombs flying in here? It's not terrorism just the execution of something, it's terrorism and kidnapping and intimidation. There have been so many ugly examples throughout history, we should turn to God instead of terrorist actions. It's terrible what terrorism is. Well, terrorism was in 1999, a classic form of terrorism, because 19 of the most powerful countries bombed this beautiful, beautiful, beautiful country. A lot of people died, and the damage is immeasurable. They destroyed our infrastructure. It's terrorism. It's also terrorism when you kill an innocent child, it's not caused by anything. Terrorism is a yellow house. And now someone would say, "You better shut up." No, I'll never shut up. When they took organs and sold lively, it was terrorism. It didn't happen again. It's a good thing we're passing this law. The Republic of Serbia, its political option is the European Union, so we implement their legislation in our own legislation. Neutrality is military, and that's why we have to deal with infrastructure, as we do with personnel, services, because the main potential in all of this is human. We have a wonderful army, we have wonderful young people from the police, and not just young ones. Well, that's why we brought in a project that we're very successful in realising about the assignment of apartments for security services, so they were active or passive, or retired. And that's the best thing we've ever done. Not someone who's on the defenses of the country to think about whether he has an apartment, whether he lives, where he's going to put his wife and children. No, I don't. It is only by tactics and by what means it will protect people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am proud to live in this beautiful, beautiful country and to have the army and the police as we have now, that is, since coming to power of the SNS since 2012. I'd just like to remind you of what the military looked like by 2012. There was a cutting of tanks, so selling into old iron, melting tanks, boats sold, so when we had a big monster, a flood in 2014, we borrowed boats so people wouldn't give up. You're a disgrace. It didn't happen again. They say they didn't need an army. Well, how come they didn't need an army? How's it going today? We've never fought conquest wars, just defense wars. In the Balkan wars, the First World War, the '90s wars, we lost over two million people. It didn't happen again. Terrorism needs to be radically eradicated. All we can think of is terrorist action. Otherwise, the expansion experienced terrorism in 1950 to 1970, at the time it was the highest percentage of terrorist actions around the world, and one of the strongest terrorist actions was Al-Qaeda, which works nonstop in Southeast Asia, however, has tentacles, since it is an octopus, in 35 countries. It's not just about finding a terrorist or a terrorist organization, it's about who's funding it. He's a much bigger criminal than the one who does it. In addition to political terrorism, there is, of course, religious terrorism, all in God's name. I don't think so. God is love, and if you're in God, then you're not in terrorism, then you're not in murders, you're not in liquidations, you're in the opposite. Everything can be solved between normal people, in a nice and normal way, deals. Let's just remind ourselves of some terrorist action from 1960 to today. We witnessed countless terrorist acts - Guatemala in 1968, the American ambassador killed in the assassination of Germany in 1972, 11 Israeli athletes were killed at the Munich Olympics, Holland in 1975, hijacking trains and 11 oil ministers abducted in Vienna, Lebanon 1983, unknown persons driving trucks with explosives committed suicide attacks on US Marine military bases in Beirut, Scotland in 1988, Pan Am aircraft blown up over the city of Lokberi and the mass of blown-up planes, Tokyo, we remember, in 1996, when in the subway train, toxic gas was released, New York 2001, four passenger planes were hijacked, two ended in twin towers, killed over 3,000 people, I think exactly 3,050 people. Beslan, a hostage crisis in Beslan, is the name for one of the most severe terrorist attacks that hit Russia in its history. It began on September 1st 2004, ending on September 3rd 2004, with the attack of Russian special forces. 344 people and 186 children died. So 186 children. What do these people think? They're killing innocent children. It's morbid, it's scrawny, it's disgusting. If they want to go to war, let them go to their homes, let them let other people, normal, live their lives. Our goal is work, order, discipline and prosperity, not killing. We can talk about this as much as we want because terrorism doesn't stop, but we, given our services and that we've armed ourselves, but not to attack someone but to defend ourselves because neutrality is our war, we don't belong to the blocks, and that's why we rely on ourselves, we have friends but it's certainly much better to be armed than to be bare-armed clay pigeons, as we were until 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7496	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to congratulate all citizens, all the local self-governments that, due to the loans that the state will withdraw to build a pipeline, solve some of its problems in the economy, will come easier to invest, and will have energy exports for heating in their homes, which they haven't had so far. We who already have it certainly want Serbia as a country of equal citizens, we certainly want everyone else in Serbia to have it, and therefore this power is working on it unlike some of the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as terrorism is concerned, almost all war conflicts begin because of terrorism or for defense against terrorism. America is the most famous state, i.e. the superstate, a set of states, or continents that often go into military action because of terrorism, and these military actions are often not essentially due to terrorism, so some countries that later become the source and litter of terrorism are destroyed. Let's think of Afghanistan and Osama Bin Laden. He was directly funded and trained by the Americans, and while he was working for them, he was a freedom fighter. When they needed him as a terrorist, he was declared a terrorist and liquidated as someone who had committed terrorist acts on U.S. territory, and after 9/11, the same U.S. was re-emerged to some states that didn't even have anything to do with terrorism like Libya, Syria, etc. At least then they had nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, when you say something against the Blacks, then you're a racist, when you say something against the Jews, then you're an anti-Semite, and when you do something against the Serbs, you're a freedom fighter. Terrorism was a prelude to civil wars in Serbia. Let's remember all terrorist acts on SFRY territory or on officials representing the former Yugoslavia in embassies. In most cases, they were Croats, Croatian terrorists, or members of Croatian terrorist organisations abroad who repeatedly brought their terrorists and Yugoslavia into the territory, killed Ambassador Rovovic, crashed the plane over Czechoslovakia. To them, Barisic, who killed Ambassador Rovovic, became a national hero, a terrorist to whom they erected the monument. To make the miracle even bigger, the state of Sweden, due to the terrorist act of hijacking aircraft from Croatian terrorists, released Barisic and the prison team, agreed with terrorists, which was one precedent in the country's behaviour towards terrorists. Let's think of Bugogin and Radushe. We remember the action in which more than 10 soldiers and members of the territorial defence around Mount Radusa died when 15 Croatian terrorists came to the mountain, so in quiet times they raised some of their uprisings and carried out a terrorist act. Let's think of the Krkash, remember the cinema, remember the train station in Belgrade. We remember this terrorism during the communist Yugoslavia where Croatian terrorists had no patience for the communist Croatia to translate them all from one NDH, which eventually happened with Tudjman, to translate them all into another independent state of Croatia. Let's look at the other smaller or bigger devils. Let's remember how the war started in Bish. Let's remember the murderous Serbian wedding on March 1st, on the day of the BiH referendum that was illegal under the then existing constitutions. So there was the revote of one nation by the other two nations. On that day, Nikola Gardovic, a Serbian brother-in-law, was killed outside the Serbian church, and the man who killed him was Rasim Delalic Celo, whom Ali Izetbegovic decorated with a gun, a gift with his signature. Remember how Serbs in the Federation lost their heads in BiH. Just to remind you that the Serbs who are the most brutally cleansed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia accuse us of genocide and ethnic cleansing, which is almost incredible. Several tens of thousands of Serbs are on Croatian territory, on BiH territory, especially in the Federation and in our southern province of KIM, tens of thousands of Serbs were killed, and over a million were expelled and did not live in the territories on which they lived in 1991. Such a people who have been brutally cleansed try to get those who intervened in favour of breaking Yugoslavia to attribute it to Serbs, or to say that those who have suffered the greatest ethnic cleansing are accused of ethnic cleansing and genocide. We remember how much Europe when someone in Paris, and I condemn it, cuts off the professor's head in Paris. We remember how hard this Europe is, and supported by mujaheedins who cut off Serbs' heads in BiH, committed outrageous crimes, killed children who came to the village just because they forgot their dog. Let's remember these crimes. Let's remember cutting off the heads of the Serbs. It was a struggle for freedom then, but when it happens in Paris, then it's a great terrorism, etc. When you burn down the Serbian church, it's nothing. When Albanians tear down Serbian churches, when they tear down 100 Serbian churches, when they destroy them, it is a struggle for freedom, but when one church is planned in Paris, then we are all concerned, then they are rightly concerned. So their justice is very, very strange. Let's remember the prosecution of prisoners kissing a decapitated head in BiH. Let's remember the Al-Qaeda that was present in BiH. We remember Naser Oric and 3267 victims in Srebrenica and around Srebrenica, which is why there was a later crime in Srebrenica, but we remember ethnic cleansing in the territory of Srebrenica and the environment by the disarmed Muslim soldiers. Let us remember this activity that left 3267 Serbs dead from Naser's soldiers. I wish the court in The Hague had been chaired by Ibran Mustafic, the mayor of Srebrenica, and the beginning of the Srebrenica conflict. I believe such a shameful verdict would not have made. Let us remember that terrorism in BiH has not been stopped, the NATO Pact has made a settlement of terrorism in the Balkans, in KIM and in BiH. We remember killing soldiers in Sarajevo, after 2000, long after the war by a terrorist. Let's remember the attack on the American embassy, since the individual terrorist who wasn't grateful enough to the United States fired at the U.S. Embassy 105 bullets. His name was Mevric Jasarevic, and he said he regretted hurting only one police officer at the time. Let's remember everything that's been going on in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Let's remember Zvornik, remember the shootings long after the war, a police officer killed, two wounded in an attack on a police station in Zvornik, who executed a terrorist from the Bosniak nation. Let's think of Albanians, remember that we are the only people whose living faces have been harvested by the authorities for sale on the black market. That's outrageous. Such crimes have not occurred in history, not even during Nazi times. Let's remember the severed Serbian heads in our southern province of KIM. Let's remember all of this and remind the Western forces, and let's remind those who didn't qualify in the election. Let's remind ourselves of their crawling apology. To those who cut off Serbian heads, I'm not against apologizing for the crimes committed by our countrymen. I claim, or do not deny genocide, but I claim that it was made over Serbs in both BiH and Croatia, both in Kosovo and Metohija, because tens of thousands of Serbs were killed and over a million were cleaned. That fits the genocide theory. I know for a fact that one nation has committed genocide, on its continent it has wiped out the natives, i.e. The Indians were later able to drop two atomic bombs, which is part of the unselective destruction of an entire population in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Let's remember all the terrorist acts that occurred during Yugoslavia, let's remember the chronology of Croatian terrorist acts that were formerly over 20 in Yugoslavia, abroad another 20. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on terrorism, I believe that Serbian authorities are paying enough attention especially because part of the Syrian and Islamic states' fighters have returned to the territory of Yugoslavia and to some of the neighbouring former Yugoslav republics. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be known to everyone that our country, our flag, is no longer a white tricolour, that our country has raised its flag, that the citizens of this country of Serbia have raised their heads and that these pressures will not pass. We don't play as a former regime as others play, we don't have enough hearing, and we believe that they, the former regime, who learned to play how others play that easily in the west and surrounding states, and what they do as I see they do, find the boss of the players. My message to the regional and all other Serb haters is that we are no longer madly brave, that we will not fight for others, we want to live for ourselves, we will no longer create communities of defeated and defeated and say the Croats we defeat by the state. We won't do that anymore. And my message to them is that the more they squeeze us, the more we jump both mentally and morally and economically and financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7498	The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7499	Thank you, dear vice president of the National Assembly. A respected minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, terrorism is a threat and a threat that knows no borders. He exhibits himself through various individual or group activities in an effort to achieve some of his political goals through violence. In this sense, terrorism poses a danger not only to the state and its state order, but also to the entire world, the social order, as it is based on democratic principles and disrespect for human rights and freedoms. The free movement of goods, people and services within the EU opens up space for different terrorist groups for its activities, since the area without borders allows them to move freely, and this proves by following the global growth of terrorist attacks that shows that countries affected by a terrorist attack, say in 2004, were 49 years later, that number increased to 99. In the context of comprehensive social phenomena, terrorism represents and takes a special place in view of the constant trend in its growth and expansion. Also, terrorism appears through new phenomenal forms, adapting to each country's social, economic and political relations. Terrorism not only attacks poor countries and those less regulated, terrorism appears in all countries in the world, and affects both the state and its state-run order, as well as the private and social interests of individuals, as well as their lives, as terrorism is violence, because terrorism is a derivative of the Latin word - terrorism, which means violence, or horror. The progress of electronic communication of information technologies and the Internet becomes a place where terrorist propaganda ideas can be spread through video material or semi-public password-protected forums, giving space to terrorist organisations to indoctrinate and influence potential members. The international community and the EU are working hard to fight terrorism, which is to establish control over terrorism. Certain institutions, such as the UN, Interpol, or Europol, seek to bring together certain legal acts, together with all countries in the world that monitor their work, together with common objectives in the fight against terrorism, or control of terrorism. The current legal frameworks of the Republic of Serbia in the area of combating terrorism and preventing terrorism are broadly in line with EU and international standards. In recent years there have been significant developments in the security system of the Republic of Serbia, the implementation of certain EU security protocols, and the fact is that Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, invests in the security system of our country, invests in seeking to obtain the most modern equipment for security forces, as well as in the people, by increasing salaries for members of security, military and police of the Republic of Serbia and through building apartments for security members. When Tadic, Jeremic, Djilas, Obradovic and Tepicka led the country, and when the defence ministry was headed by Sutanovac, it was not invested in the military, nor in the police, nor in the purchase of equipment, nor in the security of the citizens, and this shows the very fact that the gentlemen were selling, or firstly, tanks, and later sold for 1,400 euros per piece, because in this way Djilas, Tadic, Jeremic and Tepic protected the citizens of this Serbia. Is that how the citizens of this Serbia are protected? President Vukic stressed that Serbia today is a country that is ready to resist all security challenges thanks to its military and police and economic strength. The country's security system next to the economic system, despite the health system, is a pillar of the strength of a society. President Vukic said, I will quote -- that Serbia is strong and modern, will focus its economic strength on further strengthening the security of its citizens. Today, we have before us a bill on a national database for combating and preventing terrorism. The law, this bill, is part of the general measures of the Republic of Serbia on the plan to improve the anti-terrorism prevention and fight system, and also represents the realisation of planned activities for the negotiating chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security, which are necessary for Serbia's EU accession. The objective of establishing a national database is to exchange information safely and efficiently with the competent authorities. Terrorism is a terrible and negative social phenomenon affecting almost all countries and all countries are seeking to make the best of the fight against terrorism. In the voting day, I, as well as the other MPs from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – will vote for our children for the bill. Long live the strong and strong Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7500	I thank the People's MP Svetlana Milijac. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7501	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to talk about this bill on the fight against terrorism and the efforts of the Government of Serbia and of us who are the majority here in parliament on the international, global, joint fight against perhaps the greatest monsters of the 21st century. I have to point out first of all yesterday and something that happened and that will certainly be written in the history of our people and our country, it is a massive performance and a clear demonstration of President Alexander Vukic at the UN Security Council session, in which way and how the state defends itself, defending national interests and one great motivation for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and a message that the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will fight very committed to defending the territorial integrity of our country, but will fight for the truth, for respect for international rights and for all the values that Serbia has enjoyed for all these years. Also, I would like to point out that everything that happened yesterday at the UN Security Council session to confirm General Ratko Mladic's verdict shows a certain kind of message and everything that our country expects in the coming period. We are expected to face great challenges, we are expected to face great pressures and we are expected to have an unequal struggle in that those who defined the events of the 1990s, who were the key factors of these events where Serbia lost a lot, but also won and won, chose what is the greatest value and the result of Serbian politics in the past hundred years, which is Republika Srpska. So that's something that's been chosen and it's an indicator that we've been fighting for, that we're fighting for, and that in the coming period we're going to have to fight for despite some different agenda that some big world moss and players in the region have. What is the best answer to all these challenges, to all the pressures that we have and that follow us is the economic empowerment of our country, military empowerment, empowerment on the social plan, but also on the plan of education, scientific and technological development. I would like to mention one very important thing that has been published today in the media, which is exactly an example of how it fights for its country and how national interests are protected. It is the beginning of the construction of a university in Kosovo Mitrovica, a university building that will have more than 10,000 square meters, where the Faculty of Economics, Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, the Rectorate will be located. In this way a country is seriously, a serious state leadership and a serious leader is fighting for his territory, fighting for his people by investing in education, by investing in so-called “investment”. soft infrastructure and that's what Alexander Vukic shows every day. What we saw last night, what they had the opportunity to see the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as citizens around the world, is talking about and showing us what almost every day is like for President Alexander Vukic. Every day is a struggle for this country, every day is a struggle for our integrity, every day is a struggle for some new investment, for a new kilometer of highway, but also a struggle to cope with the pressures of those who do not correspond to Serbia's strong and strong, those who say Serbia has raised its head a lot, that it has developed much, unfortunately, as many times in the history of this region, especially in the Western Balkans, that we are all here together equal, but that we are equal in poverty. Since Vucic came to power in this country, since he became Prime Minister, but now as president of the state, this country has begun to make the right use of its natural, material resources, its people and has a clear strategy to keep young people in this country and to make this country a modern, strong state, to which its citizens, whatever religion and nations they are, will be proud. And that is something that is the political doctrine of Alexander Vukic, and that is something that shows the composition of this Parliament, in which everyone can express their opinion, everyone can present their proposal for something that, of course, will improve life and something that will contribute to the development of our country. As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, I must point out that thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is part of the international coalition for the fight against terrorism led by the United States. Serbia has invested a lot, both in intelligence and in material and other terms, to protect its citizens and to ensure that we have almost no problems in the matter of security and the fight against terrorism, but to act preventively against anything that could be a threat to our country and our citizens in this regard, when it comes to fighting terrorism. The geopolitical position of our country is such that we must pay particular attention to this problem. It is always good, and always this majority in our Assembly, especially us in the SNS, will support every initiative, everything that leads to protecting our citizens and improving how security culture, but also their knowledge, education, but also to improve the work of our intelligence services, our security agencies, security forces in the process of preventive action and protection against international terrorism. My colleagues and previous speakers have spoken a lot about the dangers that can befall us and that lurk from the region itself, from neighbouring countries and neighbouring entities. We need to talk publicly and openly about this and talk about these dangers, and we cannot close our eyes in front of certain things, which is, of course, the fact that international terrorism and everything that has been going on in the past few years, especially in the Middle East, dangers for Europe, dangers for Serbia as well. That is why it is very important for Serbia to participate and always be in the process of all that will contribute to the victory of international terrorism. What represents the greatest danger and, unfortunately, the result in the field of current international terrorism, the terrorism that has been taking place for almost a decade on Levanta territory, so, Syria, Iraq, and finally Lebanon, says that there are strong and day-to-day terrorist organisations associated with countries and peoples living in the environment of the Republic of Serbia. My colleague Ivan Ribać spoke and mentioned the numbers and numbers of people who fought and who were within the formations of the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta in Syria and Iraq from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, of course, the Kosovo Albanians who were there, the number was over 300, and the hundreds returned to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, to remind our public and you here, as distinguished colleagues, that one of the commanders of the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta was Lavdrim Muhageri, who came there directly from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not hundreds of people, but measured by 1,000 to 1,500 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were at war and who have a huge war experience there. We need to be very careful about this. We cannot say that it is happening there about two, three or four thousand kilometers away from Belgrade and Serbia and there is no danger for Serbia. There are dangers for Serbia, especially I am speaking from that aspect, which is one fact, that there, in that space, and these terrorists were the most endangered of the Christian population. In the territory of Syria, you had 20% of the Christian population hundreds of years ago. Now, after this 10-year war, that level, that percentage of the Christian population has been reduced to 1%. Do our citizens know and do you know where Mallula is, where Palmira is, that these are the essential sources of Christian civilization, where in the 21st century it was tried to be banished, to destroy the Christian population and to destroy Christian heritage? Why am I saying that? Because it happens in the 21st century in modern, modern Europe. What is happening is that Serbian monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija are being threatened, a new kind of special war is happening, which is that monasteries and churches that are Orthodox are trying to the world public and world institutions to portray themselves as the heritage of some other religion and some other religion. We will always be loud about this, wanting to protect our heritage, wanting to point out as President Aleksandar Vukic to every problem and to point out that we are going to fight for every monastery, that we are going to fight to protect our population, to protect the safety of our population in Kosovo and Metohija, because the problem is one big part, and here I must say that great responsibility lies with the European Union and today Europe, as if it does not notice it. On one occasion, an American official visited Belgrade in 2006 and met with a blissful Metropolitan Amphilohi and asked him about developments in Kosovo and Metohija. He told him at one point: “Christ is still bleeding and is on the cross. ” That was very strange for this man. He asked: “How? “ By happening in Kosovo and Metohija, it happens day and day, it happens from 1999 to today. We thought that especially the U.S. administration during Donald Trump, who had a sensitivity to what was happening in our southern province, and we hope that such a policy and such an approach and understanding and this new one will continue, given that these are happenings and that this is something that neither the international community nor any relevant players on the international stage should allow. Of course, Serbia will always, as during the past few years as far as the SNS authorities are concerned, point out such problems, but we hope that as President Aleksandar Vukic says, others, on the other hand, especially our partners from the US and the European Union will not realise on us the famous doctrine of "war and de corner" so that they try to corner us, because then we can be the most dangerous. As the president said last night at the Security Council session, we will fight with all diplomatic means, we will fight for our country, we will strengthen our economy, we will strengthen the infrastructure, but the message is clear to everyone and President Vukic has the support of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the vast majority for that message. Serbia is no longer anybody's dominant, Serbia is no longer anyone's prelate, Serbia is running its own policy and will forever protect the interest of its citizens, but also of the Serbian people wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7502	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The remaining time of the 23-minute parliamentary group. The word is Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7503	Thank you. Dear Mr. Orlic, honourable fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs. Popovic, presently there are a set of very important and constructive draft laws, and I would like to pay attention to exactly the proposal for a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. The terrorism as we know it today, it is not a new creation, but it hides in the social community in the form of tactics, strategies, doctrines, methods and means around which only a consensus needs to be reached in order to come out into the light of day. While terrorism is seen as a crime, others describe it as a sacred duty. And as long as there are these two diametrically different sides of terrorism will certainly be. The terrorists are more dressed and equipped today, therefore more inconspicuous, as never before. This led to this phenomenon rapidly expanding and affecting the entire planet. In all possible ways, terrorist organisations are trying to achieve their political, ideological or social goals and, in most cases, do not respect generally accepted rules of war, and as a result, we have innocent victims. Terrorism is not spatially limited, or terrorism is bound by a spatial dispersion of violence, as there is no security in the event of terrorist attacks in terms of a clear border area where armed actions are carried out. In this case, the battlefield could potentially be the whole world. So no state, regardless of its degree and its development. It's not protected from this monster of today called terrorism. I often paint terrorism as a sort of forest fire that is rapidly going, even faster to stir up and it's very difficult to put it out. So, I repeat, no country on the globe is immune to terrorism, regardless of the degree of its military, information or economic development, and typical examples of this finding have been carried out in the United States, Spain, Great Britain, France, Austria, etc. The rush of terrorist inscrupulity from the beginning of 21. Ever since, he's intimidated all members of the international community. Therefore, the start of a new millennium is marked by a globally widespread fear of international terrorism. From that moment on, international terrorism is becoming a security threat to every country's first order. Based on all relevant indicators, terrorism is justified to characterise as a global security threat that has the potential to hit all entities of the international community. The constant exposure to terrorist dangers resulting in a sense of insecurity, which is the goal of terrorists, to bring domestic and global public attention to acts of violence, and to scare them or to gain an obsolescence of interest and the goals they declare. In order for the same public to put pressure on the state to meet terrorist demands, although it is not possible to specify the historical development of terrorism. This security threat certainly has its own developmental stages, which is why modern forms of terrorism have significantly altered characteristics compared to older forms and modes of expression. Modern terrorism undoubtedly has a global dimension and is increasingly common and actions are increasingly brutal, very often with fatal outcomes, performed by highly equipped and well-connected terrorist organisations. Victims are more massive and material destructions are larger scales, and state borders are not enough for a product of terrorism in all its forms. What certainly differs forms of terrorism from previously known forms is greater availability of information, better commitment of people through communication through various media, and too fast technological progress, and of course growth of industry and weapons. As someone who has spent many years dealing with this phenomenon, I can freely say that the Republic of Serbia, recognises terrorism, and is seriously working to prevent and combat terrorism. What is very important is that the Republic of Serbia recognises the universal character of terrorism and extremism and the necessity of continued and broad co-operation between countries on the global and regional agenda, in order to establish a common approach in this sensitive topic. Accordingly, we have recently signed an agreement with the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, and this Agreement has brought Serbia very important forms of co-operation, which are reflected in the exchange of information to terrorist groups, their leaders and members, as well as in their activities. So, the state is seriously working to preserve the security of both our citizens and ourselves, and this work must continue, especially if we take Europol's data into account, which say that terrorism on Europe's soil and how it exists, and according to Europol's 2018 report, we have had 129 terrorist attacks, and in 2019 119 terrorist attacks. The report for 2020 is not yet completed, usually published by the end of June. If we take all this information into account, we must not wait for some of our 11th September, but we must put a counter-terrorism fight on healthy feet, or at an enviable level in practice, and that is exactly what this bill does. This law also regulates the establishment and content of a unique national database on natural and legal persons, as well as groups and organisations from the list of designated persons of the UN and other international organisations, of course, in which the Republic of Serbia is a member, from a list of designated persons who have been brought in accordance with the law governing the restriction of the availability of property, in order to prevent terrorism, and from consolidated lists, under the law governing international restrictive measures from the existing database of competent authorities, in accordance with the law, which includes persons suspected, accused or convicted of acts of terrorism, and associated criminal acts. Since prevention and the fight against terrorism is an important issue to achieve the security policy objectives, in an effort to protect security, there is nothing left for me but to support this bill in the hope that it will be the basis for a strong, modern and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7504	Thank you. The word is Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7505	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, the honored guests, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, for the speeches of my distinguished colleagues from the Borski and Zajecar County, Adriana Pupovac and Dragana Branković Minčić, and to say the importance of the issue of gasification for the East of Serbia. At the very beginning, I must say that I will support the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank for the reconciliation of the commitments of JP Serbiagas, based on a long-term loan contract for gasification and construction of the divorce pipeline, primarily the Borski and Zajecar County. I come from the municipality of Negotin, and as I like to say, when they ask me where I come from, to say from the far east of Serbia, where the sun rises and where our Serbia wakes from. Why do I support this bill? Because, above all, gasification in Serbia is necessary. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in Article 16(4). Public debt law, i.e. in a signed contract between the lender and the borrower, amounting to 66m euros, for the gasification and construction of the divorce pipeline, Paracin Bolec, Rgotin, Negotin Prahovo. The credit is secured, according to excellent conditions, for 8 years, for two years grace periods, with an interest rate of 1.7% and an embedded foreign exchange clause. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, discussed this bill and the Committee is in accordance with Article 155(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decided to propose to the MPs to accept the bill in principle. Part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is not covered by the transport system of natural gas, is the area of eastern Serbia, which covers part of the Borsko district, which is the municipality of Negotin and the town of Bor and part of Zajecar County, the town of Zaječar and the municipality of Bolec, and the municipality of Kljažec. The supply of the remaining municipalities in these two districts is envisaged by other projects and it is areas of great potential for economic activity, which lacks economic gas, as energy. There are about 210,000 people living in this area, 106,000 in the Borski District and 104,00 in Zajecar County. This will solve problems with air pollution, and should also point out that in Prahovo, near the Municipality of Negotin, it is planned to build an international chemical park that is expected to be of great interest to investors from the EU, China and India. The chemical industry in Prahovo near Negotina was built in the distant 1960s. Plan 2025, which we are conducting with President Aleksandar Vukic, will make the powder industry the first international chemical and industrial park in Serbia, according to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in her exposé. During the past period, the Municipality of Negotin adopted all decisions in the Assembly and amendments to the plans of detailed regulation, concerning areas where the Elixir group will carry out work on the implementation of projects very important for both the Municipality of Negotin and the Republic of Serbia. Currently, there are about 1,000 employees in Elixir Prahovo, and the plan is to double that number in the future. Apartments will be built for employees in Negotin and, most importantly, over 70% is exports, so the gasification will only reduce the cost of production and we will be even more competitive on the world market. Therefore, building a divorce pipeline from Paracino through Negotin to Prahova will create conditions for the construction of distribution pipelines in all settlements and the integration of industrial, municipal and individual consumers to the distribution system. This will allow natural gas to be used as cheap, environmentally acceptable fuel, easy to use. Also, using natural gas as fuels will significantly recharge electricity capacity. In addition to everything we do with President Alexander Vukic, the most important is the economy. A total of 315km of highways have been built since 2012. The biggest projects are “Milos Veliki”, a total length of 120 kilometers, Corridor 10, a Nis-Dimitrovgrad section, a total length of 87 kilometers, a 110km Moravski corridor, a Fruskogorski corridor, 47 kilometers, a road of Kuzmin - Sremska Raca, a length of 18 kilometers. Also, we will build a fast track from Belgrade to Nis, but also from Nis through Leskovac – Vranje – Presevo, to the borders with Northern Macedonia. Soon, a reconstructed railway from Nis to Zaječar will be launched in traffic, then construction of a fast track from Belgrade to Budapest. From Chinese companies, we have been promised that the railway to Stara Paz will be able to be released in traffic by the end of this year, and it has been announced that the works on the section from Novi Sad to the border with Hungary will begin on September 1st. I would like to highlight the reconstruction of the path of Negotin – Zaječar – Književec, a very important road for the whole east of Serbia. President Aleksandar Vukic also visited the loop work at the village of Salas on the road to Negotin and stressed that the state has big plans for the east. These are all the paths our citizens have been able to dream of for more than half a century, and now these dreams come true thanks to you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Without your support, we couldn't do any of this. The total aid of the Serbian state during the pandemic is eight billion euros or 17.2% of gross domestic product, and I will give you an example, respected citizens, of only four economic indicators during the yellow exotic tycoon octopus of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, and I would only compare their indicators with the current one. Capital investments in Serbia amounted to 3.1% of the participation in the gross domestic product in 2010. It's a record 7.2% today. The unemployment rate in 2012 was 24.9%, and today it is single-digit and 9%. According to the Bureau of Statistics, 400,000 jobs, respected citizens, were lost from 2008 to 2012. The net inflow of foreign direct investment in 2012 was 453m euros, and in 2020 close to three billion euros. The average salary in 2012 was 360 euros, and today in May 2021 is 556 euros and based on only four economic indicators, we see who they were and how they worked, and how we are working with President Aleksandar Vukic for the future of our children. At the very end, I appeal and pray to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially my generation, because it is up to us now, that those who have not been vaccinated are inoculating and protecting their health and health of their loved ones, and so we come to collective immunity and we all go to new victories together. Long live Negotin! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7506	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is about 10 minutes. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7507	Thank you, Your Honor. The honourable representatives of the ministry, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, I, the Honored Chairman, will make an effort to be within those 10 minutes, because I believe that after more than 30 fellow Members of Parliament, who have discussed such important topics, there is not much more to be said or anything that has not been said by now. I think that these laws that are in front of us today are essential for the better life of Serbian citizens and from different parts, and I think that the presentation of fellow Mladen Boskovic best illustrates how much these things are essential for the region and for the people who live there. However, it is interesting that every day or every session when certain important decisions are made for the lives of Serbian citizens, a group of people who see something bad in it, although essentially nothing bad is happening today, we are not discussing anything bad, there is a certain group of people who are trying to collect cheap political points, degrade everything that is being talked about here today. I know that some people who today represent one part of the opposition are very hurtful and essentially pains Serbia's success from day to day, and I know that they are overcome by great hatred when we show again about such laws or any of the projects that Serbia is making today, but you can't help but wonder if it's possible for you to regain power in this sick desire to regain power and return to power, you hate your country so much, and all that's really good you want to make a mockery. It is very difficult today to understand what is not good in these laws and the proposals of these laws. It is also unfortunate that people who have used their power to make themselves rich and make themselves the richest people in this part of Europe today are preaching and criticising all of what we are saying today, and in general this whole process of gasification is trying somehow to bring down some insignificant measure. I just want all these people who are criticising and making senseless accusations to walk Serbia, to guide themselves and their people into problems that citizens across Serbia face, so that in a direct conversation with citizens they face realistic opinions and all the things that have plagued the citizens in the period when they were in power, so that in simple examples we can see who was more successful, who did it more for the citizens of our country. I am convinced, as the citizens do in the elections, that the government was led by the Serbian Progressive Party, and above all President Aleksandr Vukic has done countless times more than the Democratic Party and all its satellites during the period of power, but I cannot finish my presentation today without talking about terrorism which previous speakers have said a lot. The notion of terrorism is certainly a particularly painful topic in our country, because, as you have had the opportunity to hear in the past few hours, this terrorism has become our head in many places where our people live. However, what is the freshest and most painful is the terrorism that has been happening in our southern province, Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, many victims, and we will not be wrong if we say that for all Serbian victims who were killed in Kosovo and Metohija there is no justice and that the people who tortured them and killed them were not given the punishment they deserved. Unfortunately, the people who are drilling in the city today represent themselves as great patriots and terrorists and, when arrested, let them go free, and today their mouths are full of both Kosovo and Metohija and patriotism and so on. some kind of struggle for Kosovo and Metohija, and when they were able to do some things they were nowhere to be done and when our churches and monasteries were burned, when it was done by the pogrom, they were nowhere to be found. The only thing left behind in that period was some pathetic announcements in a hurry, like, just so there's some kind of clue left that they said something in that period. However, the responsible policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia today gives full confidence to the citizens of our country, because as you can see the equipment is both our military and our police, but also great work is being done by our security services, so today the citizens of Serbia are less concerned about whether an evil like this terrorism will happen from which no country in this world is fully protected. However, that terrorism that is not so much spoken of or spoken of to the extent that I believe it should be said is terrorism within our country carried out by political indifferences. When I talk about it, I think my colleague Bakarec has talked great about it, too, is the terrorism we've had on the streets of Belgrade in the past year. I allow anyone to make a mistake in some definition, no one is without sin, and anyone can correct themselves, but I would like someone to correct me and tell me -- is terrorism when you have the surrounding presidency, where it's practically that way, it's interpreted in some other countries as kidnapping the president, and is terrorism when police officers trying to maintain order and peace, standing in the cordon, and then MP Bosko Obradovic is in command of the man in the truck – what am I waiting for, let's step on this? So, is it terrorism when you call on the fireplace to be trampled by cops who are just doing their job? You'll all agree it is. Is terrorism, too, when this House of the National Assembly, the building where we are all in today's boastful demonstrations, nothing caused or motivated by a part of the opposition, above all Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, who in July the month, so here for almost a year, will be used for a kind of festival of violence outside the home of the National Assembly? Is it terrorism when you throw a rock that weighs more than six kilos on a cop who's just guarding this building where we're all in today? Is terrorism that way when you hurt more than 100 cops, over 30 seriously hurt, and is it terrorism when you break both your legs once a cop? What are we going to do with these acts of terrorism in our country? I'm for things to be called a real name, but I'm not just saying this because something happened in the past. I'm also saying this as a warning for something that can expect us in the future. It has been discussed here and inter-party dialogue, and how does it conflict with party representatives who do not want the presence of foreigners, how does this dialogue run with those parties who insist on the presence of foreigners, but what about those announcements by Dragan Gilas, who openly on his media, represent the theory that, unless some of their conditions are met, they will not be able to control and that violence will be poured out on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia? Here, it's June month, the party dialogue isn't even near the end, there are many steps to play in this dialogue, but here I'm asking the question -- are we all going to be hostages of the sick desires and ambitions of Dragan Gilas to return to power, so by some blackmail, if he doesn't get what, as if dialogue is either a government or as if people who are today at the head of Serbia are the fountains of desire, so he puts in the euro, and he gets his wish, what if he causes violence again on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia? Are we finally going to talk about terrorism then, or is he going to try to cloud everyone's eyes like some unsatisfactory people, young people, or some peaceful protest that turned into a riot? I say this all in time, because the notion of terrorism is really wide and I wouldn't want any ugly things and ugly scenarios from the past to happen without being prepared for it. And this is what I'm done with. This kind of thing, as well as such threats, are desperate to try to mask their embezzlement of money somehow and that the situation that has gone public, as far as 68m euros allocated to 53 accounts in different 17 countries owned by Dragan Gilas, is trying to distract people from these issues and to essentially speak to Serbian citizens as they are and in what way, and above all why authorities have used the position to make themselves the richest people in this part of Europe. I am convinced that in the National Assembly of Serbia there will be many more good laws that will be too much in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because this is the responsible policy of the SNS, which we all represent today, because this is the responsible policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, which we all follow. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-09-0.u7508	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or a proposing? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. The session will be held tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., and tomorrow at the end of the work there will be a vote. Thank you.
