ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MP and vice president of the National Assembly, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Let him have his glory. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10338	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would now express my condolences to the family of my friend, my colleague and our colleague here in the Assembly, the man who taught us all a lot of nice things, good things, which together with us, with our political options talked about reconciliation, about respect, about everything we all represent. I'm talking about the late Mufti, academician Muamer Zukorlic, the man I've formed a joint assembly club with since 3 August last year, where at first I had some reservations, but later when I met a man, when I met Zukorlic, I saw that this man was worth it, that man respected everyone. This man, academic Muamer Zukorlic, was also a guest at the wedding where I married my daughter, where he thus showed respect for all of us. I feel great sadness, I feel the need to say this, and I say it from my heart, believe me, because I saw it, because I met a man, because I knew exactly as well as thought and what his wish was. His mission was to reconcile, to draw closer, to love, to respect Serbs, to respect Bosniaks, to respect ourselves even though we are different religions. A large number of his men, the greatest loss, is for his family, for his children, for his family, it's the greatest loss. A great loss is also for the Islamic community. The great loss is also for his party, but it is also a great loss for our country Serbia, because it is a man who wanted to bring us all together, to unite, to be together, and we are all citizens of Serbia. In every place he spoke of respect, of unification, of unity. That's what tied me up, that's what I'm talking about right now. I've met a man, we've been together, it's more than a year, I've seen all his good side. Here in the Assembly was a spokesman for everything that our citizens need, which is needed by Serbia, which is in the first place to be people. From this place I would have told his family and all the people who loved him if we were all here and we all wanted the same thing, to be people, to respect ourselves, to appreciate ourselves and that in the coming period our common state, our Serbia would be a place where we would live better, where we would always be together with our neighbours, and any one of them believed that they were. This is a great loss for our country of Serbia. I am sure that his friends, followers of his party, from the Islamic community, will continue to understand it, and that is the unity, respect and faith in our common country of Serbia. Once again, my dear friends, a great loss for all of us, and most of all for our country Serbia. Now I'd ask one question, it's specifically about a problem that is now very current. Back in the few days, the city of Nis was the most polluted city of all standards. I know that the city administration, that the city leaders had certain meetings at the end of last year, gave certain guidelines and reached certain conclusions and informed the competent Ministry of Ecology and Environmental Protection. Since the minister then said that all she has, that this is a big problem, that it takes big money to solve this problem, my question is, is there any possibility that during the next financial year, more funds can be identified from the budget to solve the problem of air pollution in Nis? That's the most important thing for us, for all the people who live there. On the other hand, I am also sure that the government and our state and the competent minister will have the understanding and that these funds will be provided, if not from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then from the European funds. That's necessary now, and that's the need. I think we all have to work together, because the environment and air pollution are something that's most important. Once again, dear colleagues, dear friends, I expect that we will be able to solve the problem of air pollution in Nis, which means it would be good to solve the problem of air pollution in Belgrade, Novi Sad and all places, but I am here to potential Nis as the centre of Southeast Serbia. Thank you again, and I expect that this will be resolved during the next financial year, with a tendency to provide and funds from European funds needed. It would be good for all the citizens of Nis. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10339	Thank you. The word has Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10340	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, my question today concerns the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem. This unique hydrosystem was one of the largest investment projects in the SFRY, a total length of 960km, of which is 600km of water. He was the answer to the basic question of how to take and bring water, according to the idea maker Nikola Mirkov. The system serves to drain internal waters, irrigation, flood defense, water supply, sailing, fishing, tourism, etc. It is of particular economic importance that deforestation and irrigation are of particular importance. Currently, the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel irrigates about 50,000 hectares, and the channel's potential is 10 times higher. In times of major economic challenges, we believe that such capital investment projects have a lot of justification, and all in order to put the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem in full function. Therefore, my question today to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the competent ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Construction and Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management and the Ministry of Finance, has the government of Serbia and the aforementioned ministries considered the possibility of revitalisation and the full function of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem? If so, are there any preliminary data on the amount of necessary investments, as well as on the time period during which the job would be done? And my third question, what would the overall social, economic and financial effects of such investments be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10341	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10342	I thank you, Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Presidency, I first once again take the opportunity to express my deepest condolences to the family of our respected colleague, Muamer Zukorlic, his foreigner and the entire Islamic community. As for the issues, today when the state of Serbia is economically strengthening and becoming a reliable and respected political partner, a stable political partner, when it proposes regional initiatives in favour of the region's stability, organises world summits and participates in events important for the whole world, Serbs who are bothered by all this and who would rather see Serbia and the Serbian people on their knees and therefore never rest. Walking around the world, they muddy their people and their country, and all they hope is that this particular Serbia, which they hate and humiliate, will get a voice for taking over power. It is not hard to guess that it is between Dragan Gilas and his associates who have been cruised around America these days, lobbying against their country, against Serbia, and lobbyists are the same congressmen who lobby for Albanians and Bosniaks from Pristina and for independent Kosovo. These are the same ones that were for the bombing of Serbia, those are the same ones that were for imposing sanctions on Serbia, and these are the same ones that fought for the adoption of a resolution that would make Serbia a genocide state and a Serb genocide nation. They did not have enough space to defile Serbia or Europe, so they all collectively moved to America, where they attack each day and defecate their people and their country, and headed to America to recommend themselves as unimpeached Democrats. But they don't care about democracy, far from it, they do have their own interests. If it weren't for Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija, who would gladly hand over both to the fine and cultural Mr. Kurti, because they themselves say that he is a great intellectual and patriot, they themselves confirm that Kurti and Gilas chose exactly the same American lobbyists, we believe quite accidentally. Obviously, their interest in multiplying wealth is beyond anything else. So we learn from the media that Solak pays seven American companies and lobbyists to destroy Telecom and save the safe destruction of his SBB, which operates within his United Group, which owes as much as four billion. They probably think that their media empire will save itself by media strikes on Serbia and Serbia's leadership by courting those who openly work against Serbia and our state and national interests. This American tour has long been prepared and highly likely paid. According to the US media, they hired close Albanian lobbyists to help them politically threaten Telecom and act on US sanctions against Telecom, so on to Serbia. The influence of well-paid lobbying is not naive, as a group of US congressmen working for both Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija has sent a letter to President Biden in whom he baselessly accuses Serbia. They accuse Serbia of media freedom, accuse Serbia of corruption. Imagine, Gilas found that he was talking about freedom of the media today, and he didn't remember in 2011 after putting together a very precise and clear report by Verica Barac, which stood every second of the time on the national frequency media. If it's from Gilas, it's really a lot. True, it would not surprise us today to again, as they asked in 1999, to ask for and bomb Serbia, because they will not be able to obey Serbia for which they cannot be power, of course, if possible without a choice. They've teamed up nicely with all the destroyers of the Serbian state. It's a shame, Dragan Gilas, that you hate your people so much. Nothing is sacred to you, no Serbian victim, no exiled Serb from Kosovo and Metohija. For you, there is no sacred place on the Pecka Patriarchate, no Gracanica, no Self-Secret church, no burning monastery, no cross that the Albanians have taken off the dome of our church. You also bow to Alibino Kurti, whom, along with 1,400 Albanian terrorists who burned and burned in Kosovo and Metohija in the 1990s, you just released from prison. Obviously, your sanctity is something else, the money you worship and buy, but honor can never be bought. So I'd like to ask the government today, the fact is that we've been dealing with Gilas, Solak and their media machinations and malfeasances, their enormous capital for a long time now, but what they've been doing, their open lobbying against Serbia and the uglyness of our people all over the world is a serious political attack on Serbia, and it's paid well. My question to the government would be - does the government own information about their debts to the state and how many citizens of Serbia cost their lobbying against Serbia? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10343	Thank you. The word is Nevenko Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10344	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am taking the opportunity at the beginning to express my deepest condolences for the death of the deceased colleague and academics, Mr. Muamer Zukorlic. My question concerns the price of energy, above all the price of electricity for the economy, i.e. for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Energy and the Energy Agency. In fact, we are all witnessing a very turbulent situation in the energy market, both in terms of quantity and prices. The constant increase in energy prices poured from global to our market, especially the increase in electricity prices, poses a major and serious threat to the business of our companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those where electricity consumption is a major item and participates in the costs of a large share. The comparisons, a year ago at this time, the price of electricity per megawatt was between 50 and 60 euros and at that price, the economic operators concluded contracts, so that now, after a year, the price would be almost double the price. An enormous increase in electricity prices threatens to endanger the business of one part of the company, especially those where electricity consumption is a major item. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce recently conducted a survey involving 388 chamber members, with the poll referring to the impact of rising electricity prices on business operators. Out of the total respondents, 69% of the members are from the processing industry. As many as 75% of respondents said the increase in electricity prices will have a significant impact on our economy's competitiveness, and 85% said it plans to increase the price of its products to 20%. Furthermore, 61% of respondents said they were afraid that an enormous increase in energy prices would affect liquidity, production and the number of employees. Of the total respondents, as many as 56% of companies fear being forced to reduce production and the number of employees from 10% to 20%, and this is the data that concerns the most. From the above, it is clear that a drastic increase in electricity prices would negatively affect our economic operators and their business. As someone who comes directly from the real sector and as a member of the parliament of the regional Chamber of Commerce, Leskovac, and in order to mitigate the negative consequences due to the excessive rise in electricity prices, I am talking to the government, the resolution ministries and the Energy Agency to do everything to reduce the negative impact of electricity price increases to the lowest possible level. The fact that this problem is being attributed also tells the fact that it is at the recommendation of the Government and the President of the Republic at the moment that all economic operators to whom the contract has expired or expires have the possibility to pay electricity at lower prices by the end of the year. It's a transitional solution at the moment. Also, the prime minister recently announced the formation of a working body to monitor the energy situation. That our government has heard and that it knows how to help the economy in crisis situations has shown and proved during the pandemic period, when with its economic support package, which was worth nearly eight billion euros, it has preserved the economy, it has preserved production capacities and what is most important -- it has preserved people's safety, because jobs have been preserved. As a result, our economy has achieved extraordinary results in a very difficult year, much better than some much stronger and more developed economies. And in this year, we get much better results than expected at the beginning of the year, so there's a chance of a high rate of economic growth. This was recently confirmed by the International Monetary Fund, which has increased the projection of economic growth for Serbia from 6% to 6.5%. All of this confirms that our government is domestic, safe and responsible for the economy, that our economy is on track and that we should continue to operate in that direction. Only strong business, investment, economic growth and good economic results can bring us higher salaries and pensions, a better standard, more money for investment investments, and all of this can be achieved if we step up economically and make progress. It is therefore very important in this challenging economy to find an opportunity to help the most vulnerable economic operators to protect themselves from this dangerous energy impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10345	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, held on 6 October 2021, established the confirmation of the mandate of MP Jelena Katic. Given that the MP did not take an oath to verify the mandate, it is necessary to now pass it. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the People's Parliament to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf and wish you successful work together in this term.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10346	We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 and the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has delivered any written objection to those minutes, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 19 October 2021. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: total -149 for - 137 did not vote - 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, held on 2 November 2021. I conclude the vote: total - 147 for - 138, did not vote - nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Journal of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal for the examination of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total - 147 for - 138, did not vote - nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs: Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10347	Thank you. In the wars only during the last century, the Serbian people suffered casualties bordering genocide, but a serious list of victims has not yet been made, especially a list of victims suffered by the Serb people in World War II, as has not been made up a full list of those killed during the 1990s conflict. The decision of the highest state leadership soon after the end of World War II was cut off from the work of the State Commission for the Study of War Crimes and the caves in which Ustasha threw their victims, and excavations in the Jasenovac death camp were stopped, as soon as they started. Tens of thousands of victims of various black legions and hangar divisions have not long since been mentioned. The truth is that even Croatian historians in SFR Yugoslavia have calculated and acknowledged that over 500,000 Serbian nationalities died during World War II, while in recent relevant surveys, the truth of non-Croatian historians, the number far exceeds a million victims of the Serb people. When some 100,000 victims of Balkan wars are added to that figure, over 1,250,000 from the Great War and a few tens of thousands of victims of wars fought during the 1990s, from Slovenia, through Croatia and Bosnia, to Kosovo and Metohija, we come up with approximately 2.5 million victims that Serbia only laid on the altar of freedom in the 20th century. For centuries the conquerors have come and gone to these places, and the Serbian people have stoicly resisted each and every one of them by sacrificing their best and bravest sons and daughters. We cannot imagine how many greats, future scientists, inventors, artists, doctors the Serbian people had to sacrifice to preserve freedom and survive on their hearth. We are free to say that in the last two centuries, there is no generation that didn't have to lay down arms to defend its freedom, and there is no generation that hasn't paid too much of that freedom. Sixty years after the first ban on identifying the exact number of victims suffered by the Serb people, we experienced another. Not long after the Friday-October coup, the Dossow regime's decision suspended efforts to determine the exact number, primarily the dead and innocently injured Serbian citizens during the criminal NATO aggression. It seems that it was more important and more important for the Dorms and their political sopranos to be freed from prison by Cypriot terrorists and criminals and to shut down the honorable Serb generals in their places, not to determine the exact number of victims of their people. So we come to one of the few things that our people over the last hundred years can, or, to be honest, must be ashamed, which is the fact that we have never until the end insisted on establishing the exact number of wounded, the dead, and, above all, innocent victims during any of the past war conflicts, as if we were mostly silent when the authorities banned us from doing so, when they banned us from establishing the exact list of names and names of each victim, and let alone determine the exact facts of the circumstances of their injuries, the exact place of their victims, as well as the status of every victim, and possibly every criminal. Finally, respected fellow MPs, I call on you to support our proposal and vote for the formation of a commission that would once and for all establish the exact number of dead and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression, so that we finally put an end to this issue and look at the full size of the crimes that NATO forces have committed against our citizens in the field with the Shiptar terrorists and prevent any relativisation and revision of it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10348	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, it did not vote - 125, total - 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Shaip Kamberi, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs: Imamović, Kamberi, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami on 9 June 2021. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10349	Before that, I would like to take the opportunity to propose a toast to the family and family of Zukorlic for moving the rickety efendi Muamer Zukorlic. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, myrdits, good afternoon. A genocide in Srebrenica was committed in July 1995 during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The genocide consisted of mass-planned killings of captured Bosniak men and boys between the ages of 12 and 77 and carried out by the Republika Srpska Army under General Ratko Mladic's command. The event has been considered the biggest war crime in Europe since World War II, killing over 8,000 people. The Srebrenica genocide has been confirmed by numerous rulings by international courts in the region. Judicial and factually, based on relevant documents, skills and testimony, among other things, the execution of genocides in and around Srebrenica confirmed the highest judicial finding in the UN system, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which former commander of Republika Srpska's Ratko Mladic's military forcefully sentenced to life imprisonment for genocide and crimes against humanity against non-Serbs during the war in BiH. In addition to Mladic's genocide commander, Radovan Karadzic, Ljubisa Beara, Zdravko Tolimir, Vujadin Popovic, were convicted. It is recalled that the Serbian Assembly of the Srebrenica Declaration or the declaration of condemnation of the crime adopted on 31 March 2010, and there is no legal obstacle to the resolution on genocide in Srebrenica today and to be put on the agenda. The legal basis for the vote of such a resolution is in the Law on Serbia-Montenegro's co-operation with the International Tribunal for criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which in Article 2 says Serbia-Montenegro will respect and implement the International Criminal Tribunal's judgments. Moreover, Serbia cannot point to its domestic legislation to justify not keeping its international obligations. If Serbia's domestic legislation is not in line with international obligations, it must be changed urgently to guarantee compliance with those obligations and be reached in one decision requiring Serbia to fulfil its commitment to co-operate with the tribunal. As the late Prime Minister Djindjic once said -- we need justice as a concept for the guilty to be identified and punished. In that sense, The Hague tribunal has rightly condemned Ratko Mladic for genocide in Srebrenica, but by voting the resolution today, we would condemn the very idea that Mladic killed innocent Muslims. Finally, with the invitation to vote to put the resolution on the agenda, I would like to remind you of a statement by the Nobel Peace Prize winner from 1986, Mr. Eli Vizel, who says: “Always take a stand - neutrality helps the executioner, never the victim. The silence encourages the torturer, never tortured. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10350	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, v – 16, did not vote -128, a total of -149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 June 2021. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10351	Thank you. Tighten up those banners. So “Always take a stand — neutrality helps the executioner, never the victim. The silence encourages the torturer, never tortured. “ So from what I managed to catch through the resolution. I haven't heard the following – again, I regret all the victims of civil war in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. I particularly regret all the victims of the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since I have three quarters of my family, and I have been married to Todorovic and Risticevic, since I have ten victims in the closer and further family in BiH, I know what sadness is and I do not want to trade in grief. None of Risticevic lives in houses and apartments where they lived in 1991. They didn't kill anyone. And regardless of the dozens of victims in the family and regardless of arson, kidnapping etc., the whole village of Bogovici with 18 houses, the liquidation of nine residents, I continue to regret all the victims, regardless of the nation, religion etc. For me, the victims are equal in front of the law. On the other hand, I don't see any regrets about the Serbian victims. I see no regrets over 3567 victims of Serbian nationality in and around Srebrenica, which also caused a crime against the Muslim, or Bosniak population in 1995. Revenge and retribution are not justice, and I condemn any crime committed against the Bosniak population, but also one that was committed previously over the Serb population, which caused this second crime. I don't see anyone else judging like that. I simply wish to condemn and selectively bring to justice criminals, where only one party was tried. Because someone claims Mladic is guilty and that some courts have found Mladic guilty, and Naser Oric does not see it, it is not proof that Naser Oric, who slaughtered that judge in Zalazi, is innocent, nor is it proof for me that Ratko Mladic is guilty. For me, it is proof of the guilt of the courts and their political bias that was done for the next reason. It is obvious that someone considers the Republic of Serbia genocide. An apparent attempt to unitify BiH and the entire political campaign, which I condemn, which is being conducted around victims of any nationality, should serve in favour of unitaryisation of BiH. As -- you're genocide, and now you have to agree to this BiH becomes unitary and our domination over you. It's a message from the Sarajevo authorities. The genocide was in the 20th century, but over the Serbs. The Serbian population, Orthodox in 1931, was 44%. According to the latest list of Sarajevo authorities, the Serbs have 31%, and Muslims, according to the 1931 census, were 30%, according to their lists there are 50.1%. So there is more than 20%, and the Serbs less than 30% in the total BiH population. Then the basic question is, and statistics are science, over which genocide was committed in the 20th century? I claim against the Serbs. As for Srebrenica, I claim it was a crime in and around Srebrenica, and for me, every victim is equally worth it. In the end, I will dare say that in this case Srebrenica is a genocide, but a genocide of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10352	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 148, for – 24, versus – one, did not vote – 124. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Linta, on the basis of Article 92, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War and members of their families, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 May 2021. My dear Lint has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10353	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has for the third time asked for the session's agenda to be complemented by my draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. The main reason why I'm looking for this supplement is the fact that in the existing law, one great injustice was committed. According to the current law, the Krajina fighters were recognised only until 27 April 1992, so until the day of the existence of the SFRY and the formation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I think it's a big injustice. The Krajina fighters are bitter, dissatisfied, because they think, and I absolutely support them, that they fought with honor, courage and honesty for their people and the state and that they did not wage any private war. I am asking this bill for all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police to be recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. I'm stating four reasons. First, officers and officers of the Republika Srpska Army have been recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. The question arises - and with whom did the U.S. officers, the officers command, if they were granted a wartime, and their fighters were not? I also remind you that Croatia has passed its law on the rights of Croatian veterans, with all members of Croatia's larger defence from neighbouring BiH fully equalised with the rights of members of the Croatian military. I also remind myself that in 1993, during the war, during amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act of Croatia, all surviving members of the genocide NDH's armed forces recognized a double-term war effort for the period 1941-1945, thus acknowledging the wartime internship of the Ustashas who committed genocide against our people. Finally, in 1951, a new democratic Germany, therefore, only six years after the end of the war, acknowledged the war effort of all members of the German Vermacht with an explanation that these people were forced to mobilize by Hitler's Nazi regime, but that they were recognised as a wartime because they were at war regardless of what was the wrong side. I want to believe that the Krajina fighters are no worse than the Nazis and Ustasha. And I hope and I am confident that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will correct this great injustice and, I repeat, will recognise to all members of the army and police of the Republic of Serbia the war effort for the entire time of the double-term war and also, among the written evidence, the recognition of the military book and all other documents of SAO Krajina, SAO Western Slavonia, SAO Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, West Srem and Republika Srpska Krajina, where this is not possible, that it will enable the institute of two qualified witnesses, where two members of a specific unit of the army and police of the Republika Srpska region will be guaranteed under material and criminal responsibility that a certain man is a regional fighter of that unit and fought for the interests of his people and countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10354	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of 146, for nine, did not vote 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Linta suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees' Law, which was submitted on March 23rd. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10355	For the sixth time, I ask that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. The main reason why I am looking for a supplement is the fact that today there are more than 12,000 exile families from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH who are tenants or living in unfinished houses or living in old spending houses, so they have not resolved the key issue of integration, the issue of housing. I would like to remind you that the country started implementing a regional housing programme in 2012, aimed at resolving the housing issue of all the expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH over 20,000 in the next five years. Unfortunately, after nine years of implementation of the regional housing programme, we have a statement from the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration that by the end of 2022, only a little more than 7,000 families will be settled. So more than 12,000 exiled families won't have solved the key issue, integration, I repeat the issue of housing. I would like to remind you that the regional housing programme has been implemented inadmissibly slow, sloppy, unprofessionally, and we have information from the project management unit that 302m euros have been planned, agreed with donors at the 2012 donor conference, Serbia will withdraw only 134m euros, 168m euros will not be withdrawn by international donors. That is why I think it is very important to pass this bill and pass my bill and commit the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue the regional housing programme until more than 12,000 exiled families from Croatia, the Federation of BiH, are resolved. As an example, I cite cases, for example, where a list of exiled families was published in 2015. Here to this day, six years have passed, no building of 10 apartments has been built or, let's say, we have a list of 24 exiled families in Šapec, it's been six years and there's still no building built. We see that our country, I strongly support it, is building large infrastructure projects, building "Belgrade on Water", but I can't understand the fact that we have institutions that can't build 10, 15, 20 or 25 apartments in six years. We have cases like this all over Serbia, from Saturday to Bujanovac. Also, we have thousands of exiled families who have been living in their apartments for 20 years and still have not received the right to ransom under favourable conditions. For example, 80 families in the Sava village in Obrenovac have lived in those apartments since 2000 and have not been given the right to buy out to this day because of unresolved property legal issues. So my appeal is that the competent state institutions finally begin to solve a number of problems of this people. It is important for the citizens of Serbia to say that these apartments and that the rest of the housing solutions are, therefore, for building materials, for rural properties, for house installations, for building apartments... These are funds from international donors, above all from the EU, they are not the funds of the Republic of Serbia and it is a shame that these international funds, that these donations will not be used. So, once again the appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue the regional housing programme, to finally resolve the key issue of integration, the issue of housing of more than 12,000 exiled families and to finally begin to solve all other problems quickly and efficiently, and I, in the letter of Prime Minister Brnabic, listed them as 16, that people who are the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia finally say they belong to their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10356	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 144 for – seven, did not vote – 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed to carry out, under one, a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination; 2) a common principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Business Companies, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Two Members of the Republic of the Commission on the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of the President and Members of the Charter of Values of Values; 3) a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirming Co-operation in the Protection of Tragation of the Western Balkans, Proposal for a Law on Recog Agreement on Mutual Recognition and Replacement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Government of the Republic of Croatia; 4 the First Decision on the Court of the Court of Justice on the First Decision on the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of First Instance of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court, proposed, proposed, proposed of the Court of the Court of the Court of the President, proposed of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, proposed. The promoter doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Final vote: total – 143 for – 125, not voted – 18. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on a proposal to consider the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to vote. Final vote: total – 143 for – 124 did not vote – 19. I find that the National Assembly has established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. D n e n e d d: Proposal for a law on biocidal products, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Protection of disaster in the Western Balkans, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, 7. A Proposal for a Decision on the Termination of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Kursumlia, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, 9. Proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge who is first elected as judge, 10. Proposal for a decision on the selection of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, 11. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Committee. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Irena Vujovic, Minister of Environment Protection, Jelena Tanaskovic and Aleksandar Dujanovic, State Secretary Aleksandra Imširagić Đurić, Deputy Minister Biljana Milenkovic, Head of Biocidal Management and Sara Pavkov, Chief of Staff of Ministers. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), I am opening a common principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants. The word has a proposalary representative, Minister Irena Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10357	Thank you, chairman of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, are facing you today with a proposal for a law on biocidal products. Biocidal products are chemicals that suppress organisms harmful to human and animal health or to organisms that can cause damage to materials and products. Such products pose a risk to human and animal health, as well as to the environment, because of their properties. Therefore, strict rules and procedures for the assessment of the biocidal product are necessary to determine whether the product is safe to use. If the risk posed by the biocidal product is estimated to be acceptable, the Ministry of Environmental Protection shall approve the use and availability of products on the market. The relevant law governing biocidal products was adopted in 2009 and is in line with Directive 98/8 EC on the placing of biocidal products on the market to the extent that this was justified and feasible for Serbia as a candidate country for EU accession. The requests that have been made are not subject to membership. The directive was put out of effect in 2012 when the European Commission adopted a Regulation on the availability on the market and use of biocidal products. The Regulation also introduces new instruments and requirements that allow for better management of biocidal products. The main objective of the new Biocidal Products Act is to protect human health, animal health and the environment, maintain and promote competitiveness and our industry and prepare for business within the single EU market, as well as improve transparency. When we talk about European integration and the approximation of European legislation, the situation in the field of chemicals and biocidal products is fundamentally different from other sectors of the environment. Chemicals and biocidal products are regulated by regulations that are directly applicable in all EU Member States, and regulations governing them are not only about the protection of human health and the environment, but also about trade. The new Biocidal Products Act has been developed to comply with the requirements of the Biocidal Products Regulation in Serbia, and to respect the European Commission's position issued with the "clinning report" for Chapter 27 where the Republic of Serbia should comply with the Regulation on Biocidal Products. Complete harmonisation with the Biocidal Products Regulation is not possible. However, the bill has reached maximum compliance with EU policies and regulations in the area of biocidal products, while at the same time removing unnecessary barriers to trade in biocidal products and treated products. The harmonisation of the biocidal product management system with EU legal agents contributes to better protection of human health, animal health and the environment, ensuring that it is made available on the Serbian market only biocidal products whose use is safe and improves trade. The new proposal for the Biocidal Products Act also introduces new rules for market availability, use of biocidal products and treated products. The proposal is based on the precautionary principle, which provides a high level of health and environmental protection, and in particular the protection of sensitive groups. The preventive approach to the management of biocidal products shall put an accent on the assessment and approval of a biocidal product for the intended use method, as well as on the information of users on the hazards of biocidal products and precautionary measures for safe use, through labelling of labels, instructions for use and the safety list. In this way, it is ensured that only biocidal products which have no adverse effects on human and animal health or unacceptable environmental effects are available on the market of the Republic of Serbia. By passing the proposed Biocidal Products Act, we achieve the following benefits: we promote market availability control and use of biocidal products, ensure that not only biocidal products whose use is safe are available on the market, we contribute to better protection of human, animal and environmental health, we create conditions to improve trade in biocidal and treated products with EU countries and other countries, while removing unnecessary trade barriers, provide adequate preparation of the competent body for the management of biocidal products for the implementation of the Regulation on biocidal products after EU accession, as an industry for the application of requirements and continuation of business in accordance with the rules of the single European market, which is essential to our economy. In addition, the adoption of this Biocidal Products Act confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to improve the system of management of biocidal products and to bring its policy into line with EU policies and regulations, which is important for the progress of accession negotiations. Dear MPs, I believe we will have a constructive debate on this bill, and here is the next thing you know, is the draft amendment of the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants, and it is one of the laws of importance for the environment and for the health of citizens. The aim of the adoption of this amendment of the law is to coordinate in the area of the adoption of integrated licences in order to comply with the Integrated Prevention and Control Directive on environment pollution 2008/1EC, which prescribes the obligation to obtain an integrated authorisation. In the next period, we also have a full alignment with the Industrial Emissions Directive. A new deadline for issuing integrated authorisations for existing facilities and activities was also proposed on 31 December 2024, as the old deadline expired on 31 December 2020. The deadline shall be shifted due to the operator’s prevention to complete their requirements, given the complexity of the overall procedure. The authorisation of the different competent authorities is required in order to apply a complete request. It is also proposed that, instead of agreeing to assess the hazards of accidents for new plants, consent be given, an appropriate document in the field of protection against major chemical accident, and that existing plants, instead of assessing the hazards of accidents, agree to the relevant documentation in accordance with the regulations governing and protecting against major chemical accident. These changes are just termological, but also the content of documentation that is attached to the application does not change and there is no new procedure. The change is necessary in order to properly control "ape" plants that fall into the largest pollutants and monitor their work and comply with EU standards. The proposed change will have a mutually positive impact on operators, above all, for which an integrated authorisation is issued, which will have sufficient time to obtain the necessary documentation to be submitted with the request for an integrated authorisation, but also on the competent authorities for issuing an integrated authorisation, as it will provide a rational and justified period for the issuing of this authorisation with a new deadline for the competent authority. This also ensures a positive impact on the environment, as well as on the quality and structure of the overall ecosystem, the quality of water, air, land, conservation of bio-diversity, protection of flora and fauna and genetic diversity, savings of economic resources, energy efficiency and protection from noise and vibrations. Since the amendments to these two members of the law have been conducted for several days already in the media, I would just like to clarify more precisely why this law was not needed to go to a public debate, so we are changing only two members of it is one member of an extension of the deadline. I must also refer to the beginning of the law when it was passed, meaning, adopted in 2004, and then amended and amended the law in 2015, when the deadline for issuing integrated licences was 31 December 2020, which expired. In 2018, a list of facilities was made and it was found that 227 of the existing so-called "pipes" and installations in the energy sector, the manufacturing and processing sectors of metals, mineral industry, chemical industry, waste management and other activities are on this list. This list will be updated further. I must remind you that out of the 46 integrated permits issued by the Republic, province and local authorities, 39 were issued from 2014 to today, while for the five permits issued in 2011 and 2012, an audit was carried out. I also remind you that neither was issued from 2004 to 2011. Since in the current 2015 law, the deadline for issuing integrated licences expired with last year, the draft law amending and supplementing the Integrated Prevention and Control Act for environmental pollution was set for 31 December 2014 in order to allow operators to have sufficient time to comply. Of course, we, as a ministry, are going to bring in special regulations to do what is necessary for the operator to do from year to year, in order to obtain an integrated permit by 2024. I hope that we will have a constructive debate concerning both these amendments to the members and to move the deadlines, that you will understand and certainly hope that in the day of the vote you will adopt these drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10358	I would like to thank the Minister for the excellent explanation that we are moving on to the rapporteurs of the committees. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10359	Thank you. Mrs Vujovic, with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about proposals that have arrived at the government's proposal, more specifically the Resolute Ministry of Environmental Protection. At the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we have assessed that these proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and now we are left to discuss them in plenary and to present them properly to the citizens of Serbia, which is why these legal solutions are important. If we are to talk about biocidal products, it should be pointed out that they are of great importance in the fight against Kovid 19, because they are chemicals that suppress organisms that are harmful to human and animal health. They are used with disinfection of surfaces, but also skins of people, equipment, but also objects, which is particularly important now in the fight against Kovid 19, such as schools, kindergartens, hospitals, factories, etc. On the other hand, because of the characteristics of such products, they can also be harmful to humans and animals and the environment. As a result, there is a need for their use to be regulated legally in order to prevent any possible harmful influences. When we mention environmental protection, we can say that this is the topic that certainly marked the last year in Serbia. I don't think there's ever been this much talk about protecting the environment before, but it's certainly never been this far before to promote environmental protection. We are aware that there are a lot of problems waiting to be solved from the area of environmental protection and it is good that it is one of the priorities of the work of the Serbian government. That is also what the funds are telling us to implement the environmental protection plan for the current year, and I believe that we will be able to talk about it in the context of the 2022 budget debate. I also want to point out the importance of field work. That's what your ministry said. I want to thank you for working with local self-government, because we are all aware that it is different when the minister personally believes in problems and through co-operation with city and municipal leaderships to support the republic to solve these problems. At first, we could also hear from you, Mrs Vujovic, that, say, 28 wastewater processing factories are missing units of local self-government, there is, of course, the accompanying infrastructure, primary and secondary sewerage network, we are expected to build regional recycling centres when we talk about solid waste. Cities and municipalities have been given the opportunity to compete with the projects of your ministry of replacement boiler rooms in institutions whose founders of cities, municipalities, of course, have been given the opportunity to compete with local self-government units, in order to also work to reduce air pollution. These are all the things that Serbian citizens should meet. So many projects have been launched. The issue of environmental and environmental protection has been taken seriously and I believe that I should also support these proposals that are ahead of us so that the Ministry of Environment Protection can continue to work with the Serbian government on issues of crucial importance for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10360	The President of the Environmental Protection Committee Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10361	Thank you, Vice President. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I move on to the report of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment I want to heal the head of Mr Zukorlic's family, namely to offer my deepest condolences and to say that this is a great loss for the whole of the Cave-Sensorvan and for the surrounding places, as well as for all of Serbia. On 8 November 2021, the Committee on Environmental Protection discussed two draft laws, a proposal for a law on biocidal products and a proposal for a law amending the Integrated Prevention and Control Act on environment pollution. The rapporteur at the Committee's session was Mrs Aleksandra Imširagić Đuric, who really explained, in detail, all the points of the Bill's proposal in detail to the MPs, and in some segments and broadly explained some of the solutions set out in the draft law. As far as the Biocidal Products Act is concerned, I will speak earlier, as an authorised proposing, and now I will only refer to the proposal for a law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, that the objective of amending this law is to extend the time limit to the competent authority for the resolution under the requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation, including the facility for which the transition period will be negotiated to the EU. Consent with the Environmental Protection Act, in the part relating to documentation, which is submitted with an application for an integrated authorisation, the Law on the Protection of the Environment in Article 58 provides that the operator of the facility, i.e. the complex in which activities in which it is present or may be present with one or more hazardous substances in equal or greater quantities than the prescribed amounts, is required to provide information, i.e. making an accident prevention policy or an accident safety report and an accident protection plan. This law does not change the important regulation of an issue in the area of integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. Besides, that's what the minister herself was talking about. In view of certain issues raised during the implementation of the law, it has been estimated that it is necessary to specify them in the text of the law which was also done after the proposals and suggestions of the interested parties of the plant operators subject to the integrated authorisation of an autonomous province, i.e. units of local self-government were considered. The implementation of this law does not require funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and, therefore, at a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment held yesterday, he proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10362	Thank you. The president of the European Integration Committee, Elvira Kovac, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10363	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Biocidal Products Act, which, as we heard, was adopted in 2009, in a completely new way, regulated the placing on the market and use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and then, in that law, the majority of the conditions laid down in Directive 98-9 of the European Parliament and of the Council of ancient 1998 on the placing of these biocidal products on the market were fully transposed. However, as we heard yesterday at the European Integration Committee session, in the meantime this directive has been put out of force everywhere, so on EU territory and since 1 September 2013, Regulation 528-2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2012 has been adopted on 22 May on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products or simply so-called. Regulation on biocidal products. The adoption of this regulation highlighted the need to harmonise the rules for making available on the market and the use of biocidal products at EU level, in particular to ensure uniform operating conditions within the EU single market. As we know, as part of the negotiations on EU accession at a bilateral meeting of the analytical review of legislation, the Republic of Serbia has on the one hand reported on the EU's status of compliance with its rules governing this topic, hence biocidal products, as well as its intention to ensure further compliance with the requirements of the Biocidal Products Regulation. Therefore, the European Commission has explicitly stated that it is necessary for our country, the Republic of Serbia, to continue the process of harmonising the rules governing biocidal products, with the Regulation on biocidal products, so that it is necessary to stress, since this Regulation 528 of 2012 regulates only the EU internal market, full harmonisation when we talk about a candidate country, has EU candidate status, full harmonisation is simply not possible, and this is precisely why the "Twining" project called "Further Development of Chemical Management and Biocidal Products in the Republic of Serbia" has been made, and this time further analysis has been carried out, how the requirements can be adopted in our legislation of this provision have been made, recommendations for the harmonisation of our legal framework for the management of biocidal products with the new legislation, and so the new regulations that we can be harmonised with the legislation. The Committee on European Integration and People's MPs, members of the Committee, believe that the adoption of this law is also important in light of the recommendations we talk a lot about today because of the recent occurrence, the publication of the European Commission's report, and we know that part of this report and the recommendation of the European Commission that the Republic of Serbia has met the criteria for opening the Cluster 4, the Green Agenda for Sustainable Connection, and especially from this point of view, is Chapter 27, which concerns environmental protection, in order to round up a set of laws that protect the environment, human health and animal health. Of course, all of us, I believe both the Minister and the Ministry and the Associates, are aware that the negotiations on this chapter will not be easy, not cheap, not easy. When we talk only about harmonising with Kia, 700 rules are needed to bring Serbia into line with EU standards. On the other hand, the largest benefit we heard about yesterday, which has been achieved since the harmonisation of the rules in this area, should be the possibility that as many biocidal products already authorised in the EU can be found and used in the Republic of Serbia's market through the process of recognition, approval. The Committee on European Integration therefore supports this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10364	I thank the esteemed Vice President Kovac. We're moving on to representatives of the MPs' clubs. The word has the esteemed Milletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10365	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I will, as deputy head of the MP's Club of Justice and Reconciliation, United Petets and Respect for my friend, colleague, party president, Mr Zukorlic's Mufti, a time that was foreseen from 20 minutes for our parliamentary group, leave that time, because he as a man, as an MP here in the Assembly, used all that time until last week, and only in respect, respect and expansion of love and co-operation between all our citizens, whether they are Orthodox, whether they are Muslim religions. Once again, I will leave this time to honor the late Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10366	Thank you. It is up to the People's MP, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10367	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Vujovic, respected members of the Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we today have two more on the agenda in a series of laws that this assembly called upon to protect the environment. These are the laws that we are harmonising with European Union regulations and are precisely a clear indicator of how important the environment has become and how high it is on the list of priorities of this government. The state will invest significantly more in the recovery and protection of the environment and the fact that the funds are allocated to next year's budget for the environment twice as large as the initial 2020 budget, and that amount is around 15,000,000,000 dinars. This is the percentage of the budget for ecology we have never had for me as a member of the Committee on the Environment, as co-ordinator of the Green Parliament Group, to someone who through their work advocates a clean and sustainable environment, this fact means a lot and I am particularly pleased. The laws that lie ahead of us today, which are the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution, concern human health, animal health and environmental protection. When we talk about the Biocidal Products Act, we need to know what biocidal products are, what they are used for, how they are used, how they are marked, how they are stored and how they are safely taken care of. Simply put, biocidal products are active substances or products containing one or more active substances and, as such, they are placed on the market and used as protection against different types of pathogens, or harmful organisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi. We meet daily and use a biocidal product without being aware of it most often. Without them, the modern way of life would be unimaginable and unsustainable. These products are widely used in medicine, we use them to disinfect households, hospitals, kindergartens, public institutions, transportation. Biocidals are used to store food from harmful microorganisms, plant protection, soil treatment, water. What is crucial is that it is the correct use and use of these funds and therefore it is necessary to regulate the list of active substances, the availability of these products on the market, the adequate packaging, the mandatory labelling of the biocidal product. This law is primarily based on the precautionary principle that provides a high level of health care for people, animals, and particularly sensitive groups such as pregnant women, children, older populations, but also workers and the population if they are largely and for a long time exposed to the fact of a biocidal product. Therefore, the importance and importance of this law, whose provisions apply precisely to the precaution and protection against biocidal products. It is a wide range of biocidal products and, under the proposal of this law, they are classified according to the intended, or harmful organism they operate on and therefore each of these products must be authorised to be placed on the market, or placed on the market, must have a solution on the list of biocidal products which may be available on the market, or which may be used. This solution must be made in accordance with the rules applicable in the EU. This and the law of this concept is important and so much that it gives citizens certainty that they can rely on institutions that are regulated by law to take care of the protection of people, in the sense that biocidal products are safe and should be used in an adequate and prescribed manner. Let's say, in crises like this caused by Kovid 19, not knowing what we can use to disinfect the skin, and what to disinfect the floors, kitchen surfaces, toilets, can be a great enemy and endanger health. On the other hand, the placing of biocidal products on the market is also a major challenge for domestic economy. In the current circumstances of the pandemic, a large number of businessmen are determined to start and produce disinfectants. A team before this law is even more needed in order to meet all the standards relating to health protection and health security and which are in line with EU rules. However, the law also states that certain biocidal products cannot be found on the market. Article 17. The draft law states that the Ministry will not grant approval for making available on the biocidal product market in order to use for general use if that product meets the classification criteria as acutely toxic or specific to the target body, if it is carcinogenic or reproductively toxic. Therefore, according to the provisions of this law, only biocidal products for which the Ministry has granted approval may be found on the market and the authorisation shall be granted if the active substances in that product are on the biocidal product list, i.e. they satisfy all the conditions of those lists: that they are sufficiently effective, that they do not have unacceptable effects directly or indirectly via water for drink, food, food for animals, air or other indirect effects for human and animal health. For the first time, this bill also introduces the term ‘treated product’. What does that mean? For example, it can be seed goods treated with a certain type of biocidal product to protect against some kind of pathogen. Such a product clearly on the label must have data containing the name of all active substances, all relevant instructions for use, including all precautions. The label must be clearly visible and easily read. The biocidal product, as proposed by the law, should not have any adverse effects on the environment in terms of contamination of surface and groundwater, drinking water, biodiversity and ecosystem. Control of the application of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the inspection supervision shall be carried out by three ministries: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and the Ministry of Environmental Affairs, and the Ministry of Veterinary Affairs, through veterinary inspectors. The inspector may conduct a sampling of the biocidal product or treated product to determine whether the conditions for that type of biocidal product or treated product are met on the market or in use. Where a particular biocidal product is found to be available on the market or for its benefit without authorisation, criminal provisions shall be laid down. The fines for legal persons shall be between a million and a half to three million dinars if the biocidal product is placed on the market and does not hold the authorisation or authorisation prescribed by this law. The area has so far been governed by the 2009 Biocidal Products Act, which was at that time largely in line with the conditions applicable in the EU. In the meantime, however, the EU has adopted a regulation on biocidal products, especially in order to ensure uniform operating conditions within the Single European Market. Under Chapter 27, the European Commission has requested that the Republic of Serbia continue the process of harmonising the rules governing biocidal products with a regulation that is valid at EU level. Since the Biocidal Products Regulation regulates the EU's internal market, it is not possible to talk about full harmonisation here, but this bill envisioned maximum compliance and, in addition to a high level of protection for human, animal and environmental health, will improve the level of trade in biocidal products both with EU countries and beyond. That's why I call upon fellow Members of Parliament to support this law. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants, it should be pointed out that this proposal refers to facilities that fall within the largest pollutants and they are obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation that actually prescribes the conditions under which they can carry out their activities. These are mainly installations from the energy sector, the manufacturing and processing sectors of metals, mineral industries, chemical plants, waste management plants, animal farms. In Serbia today, there are 227 such facilities that are subject to the issue of integrated permits, and to this day it has been issued 46. In order to enter the process for obtaining an integrated permit, the facilities must produce documentation from the field of protection against a major chemical accident containing an accident prevention policy, as well as a plan for protection. It is only after obtaining consent to the proposed documentation that they enter into the procedure for obtaining work permits and that is the essence of this law. Since the procedures for obtaining integrated permits are very complex and a number of problems have been observed, starting with incomplete documentation, large material investment needed to realise the measures, many of them do not have clear plans to implement measures in accordance with European standards, many of them do not possess the necessary permits, project documentation, we must agree that work on meeting requirements or standards for integrated licences is very complex and that it requires a lot of time. On the other hand, the competent authorities, licensing authorities, face another type of problem, which is the lack of administrative human resources relations. Employees are not trained enough to write permits and therefore it is necessary to strengthen capacity and employ new professional staff. An unwritten rule applies in the EU that one license writer can issue a maximum of three to four permits per year. Here it is necessary for employees to know a large number of European documents, to constantly follow European and domestic legislation. That is why a new deadline for the issue of integrated licences - 31 December 2024, instead of the end of 2020, is also more favourable for operators who will have enough time to obtain documentation and for competent authorities who issue licences. Since this is about permits that regulate the work of large pollutants in order to reduce harmful emissions facts and impact on human health and the environment, these permits provide for monitoring of the impact on the quality of water, air, land, measures to prevent chemical accidents and limit their consequences, it is important to access these permits thoroughly and therefore to move the deadline at the end of 2024. My parliamentary group will support both of these proposals in the voting day, and I hope that the other fellow Members will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10368	I thank the honourable Parliament of Karanac. I give my word to the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10369	Thank you, Your Honor. Before my presentation, I will express my deep condolences to the family of the late counterpart, Muammar Zukorlic, on behalf of the United Serbia parliamentary group. His premature death is a great loss for the family, but certainly also for us colleagues who have had the opportunity to work and cooperate with him. Dear Minister, today we are discussing several legal solutions from the area of environmental protection. Environmental protection is a generational issue, and it is up to all of us to engage and work on leaving generations to a healthier environment and that is why Unique Serbia supports all efforts to ensure that our country has a preserved and healthy nature and in the day to vote, we will support the proposed legislative solutions. A few days ago, in fact on November 2nd, a conference on climate change took place in Glasgow, and Serbia had the privilege of being at such an important summit, where the most important topics of today were discussed, to see how future generations that come do not make the same mistakes that we and generations before us, because we simply don't have another planet for life. Serbia was co-chair of this session and we contributed to the implementation of the 6th global agreement in Paris on reducing greenhouse gases, aimed at adapting carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 through the opening of new industries. Otherwise, Serbia has ratified the Paris Agreement and thus confirmed our commitment to participate in international processes as equal partners, but this increases the possibility of using international funds to achieve the objectives and develop the monitoring of gas emission reductions. 120 world leaders participated in the summit itself. Among them was Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, who had several very interesting issues that he referred to at the summit itself, and referred to something that is very current today, which is the price of natural gas, as well as access to nuclear power plants, whether it will increase or decrease. We'll see what answers will be, and we'll see how through the years that come we'll fight against everything that pollutes our air and water. It seems to me that all these contaminants have become an integral part of an ordinary citizen's life, and I don't know if any of us can imagine life without a cell phone or without using a car, hardly anyone can, but I think that when we use cell phones or drive cars, I don't think any of us are wondering how many of these products are to be in our hands or to use cars to pollute the environment. So I'm saying that polluters have become an integral part of our lives and that we as individuals simply bring global warming. What is the newspaper of the proposed Law on environmental pollution is integrated permits. They are important because they ensure that large pollutants also operate in accordance with high standards of the environment and thus accelerates and raises the level of environmental protection. It's about the big contaminants and they've been dealing with them through the law, but what about the little contaminants, I mean the housewives? The state has allocated huge money to help citizens who use individual bars to move on to energies that do not disrupt health and the environment, I mean pellets, gas and electricity, but these days we see how much the price of the pellets has jumped and that it's hard to find, not what's expensive, but it's impossible to find, and I'm sure this situation will work out and we'll have enough pellets on the market for everyone, but we need to protect the system that we want to implement. The government has shown that it wants to help all citizens, and we have seen it best in the period behind us, over the past year and a half at the time of the pandemic, and not to mention all the help the state has given to both the businessmen and the citizens. I want to look back and make a proposal, we are aware and we are witnessing examples of good practice, such as joining local self-government to reduce the risk of disasters and civil protection, and I think we should also pass this on to the field of environmental protection. In our country, cooperation when we talk about the environment is mostly seen in the treatment of both solid waste and wastewater. It is necessary to improve the operation of the site by further supporting and stimulating the initiative of local self-government in the need of joint action. This can be achieved in several ways, for example, by setting up joint environmental services two or three local self-governments, and also through the organisation of a municipal militia for two or more local self-governments, it can be achieved both more efficient and rational functioning of public administrations, but what is most important for each citizen of this country is to provide him with a healthy air that breathes and a healthy drinking water that drinks. It is also necessary to use a permanent conference and to build through the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, in coordination, of course, with the Ministry of Health, Environment and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, a situational analysis that would map major problems and challenges when it comes to the environment, i.e. air, water and land, and which would give recommendations to address and improve the current situation. We must be aware that management of natural resources, as well as the environment, is a great developmental opportunity for the Republic of Serbia. I would take the opportunity to mention a regional centre on the Rudno Mountain near the Kings, it is in the stage of reconstruction, and will be used for training both in the field of civil protection and in the area of the environment. Training will be conducted for staff at the bar with the support of the National Academy of Public Administration, but training will be able to later use associations, citizens, schools and local communities. All of this is heading towards increasing the environmental awareness of citizens and thus directly affecting environmental protection. I'd put an accent on young people because they want a better quality of life, they want a future that doesn't risk climate change. We have seen an example of a young activist from Sweden, Greta, who has launched millions of people from all over the world. Addressing environmental problems is a challenge and it is a long-term process. I think that in the last 20 years, institutions have slowed down and that's why we need more young people like Greta who can drive millions of people and make changes. In a good response to the fight against climate change and the signing of the Sofia Declaration on the Western Balkans Green Agenda in November 2020 and the Green Agenda is an issue of energy security. It's, like I said, a generational problem and a huge challenge on a global scale, whether the state is big or small, whether it's developed or not. There are huge tasks in front of every country, including ours, because that means huge changes, not just in the field of energy, but agriculture, construction, because we have to balance, we have enough energy, and on the other hand we have to preserve a healthy environment. The public could hear different opinions on the Green Agenda, whether it needs Serbia or not, but I think it will allow us sufficient amounts of water, energy, of course if we respect everything foreseen by the Agenda. All the natural disasters that occur are well caused by not taking care of the environment. I came from the Kings and I saw what human negligence could do, because in the last few years we've had these floods where the damage was huge. Dumping garbage and waste by rivers, clogging little words and trimmings led to the fact that West Morava couldn't handle all the rainfall and left behind a creepy picture. Many households have moved out, some still remedied the consequences caused by the floods both in 2016 and 2017 and in 2019. I also have to mention that we also have to change the way we think about waste, because I just think that when we reject waste, it's not our responsibility and it's not our responsibility. That's what we have to change. We need to change people's minds. I think it is even necessary in our lower class textbooks to adapt lessons, for example from the subject world around us, and so young people, we teach children that, unfortunately, the privilege today is to breathe healthy air and drink healthy water. As far as the Biocidal Products Act is concerned, it was brought in May 2009 and was arranged for the marketing and use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The law contains most of the EU's conditions. The main objective of the adoption of this Biocidal Products Act is to improve the use and placing on the market of biocidal products. The aim is to ensure a high level of human, animal and environmental health, but also to improve trade in biocidal products with countries in the region and with EU countries. It is good to work to improve a system that will make sure that biocidal products that destroy undesirable organisms on one side, or rise and keep in mind that they cannot in any way endanger the health of humans, but also animals. As I said, they are in line with the EU and I, as I was reading the law, have gained the impression that the greatest accent is placed on making biocidal products available to the market, but to increase their analysis and control, so that it excludes any possibility that using them could endanger any life, whether human or animal, but certainly not affecting environmental pollution. As I said at first, JS supports every law that protects and protects the environment, because the desire of all of us, I'm sure, is that for the generations we come we leave clean air, healthy drinking water and green nature. This is why JS supports the Ministry of Ecology's efforts to preserve and preserve Serbia as beautiful as it is and that even for generations to come, as I said, we leave this whole greenery and all the beauty of our country. In voting day, we will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10370	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Next in line is the representative of the Union of Duke Hungarians, the esteemed Arpad Fremon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10371	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SVM Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution because they represent an important step towards ensuring general and integrated security and because they aim to protect human and animal health and the environment. General and integrated safety is achieved on the one hand by placing safety products on the market, safe from the aspect of their toxicological, ecotoxicological and physical-chemical properties, in order to meet the requirements of green chemicals, and with other more efficient issue of integrated permits, so that the largest pollutants are obliged to comply with standards of air, water and land protection to reduce noise and vibration emissions, as well as the amount of waste generated in industrial and agricultural complexes, with efficient use of energy and other resources. By passing these laws, it is particularly important in light of the European Commission's recommendation that Serbia has met the transitional criteria for opening clusters 4 Green Agenda and sustainable integration and Chapter 27 to round up a set of laws that protect the environment, human health and animals. Negotiations on this chapter mean that some 700 regulations and 14 strategic documents need to be adopted, while sectoral laws have transposed the relevant directives. The Integrated Prevention and Control Directive 2008/1/EC, which our legislation has taken over through the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution. On the other hand, Serbia received two laws on chemicals and biocidal products that were in line with European standards at the time of adoption, on the basis of which 29 sublaws were adopted. However, since 1 September 2013, Regulation 528/2012 of the European Parliament on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products has been applied in the EU, and a new law is proposed to comply with this Regulation. Although Regulation 528/2012 regulates the EU internal market so that full harmonisation in a country that has EU candidate status is not possible, it is important for us to have biocidal products approved before being made available on the market or for benefit, and to be approved it is necessary to carry out an assessment and approval of an active substance for use in a biocidal product and to carry out an assessment and approval of a biocidal product for the intended method of use. The bill takes over positive and negative lists, active substances assessed and approved in the EU for biocidal products, ensuring that only those biocidal products containing the permitted active substances are found in the market in the Republic of Serbia, and according to the European Chemicals Agency, more than 120 thousand different substances are used in the EU. To the extent that authorisation procedures are important, registers of positive and negative lists are allowed, it also speaks of the fact that the production of biocidal products has a high potential for environmental pollution and endangerment of human health, so it is logical that in 2012 the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection is the right solution to issue an integrated authorisation to the Duohem factory, which deals with the production and distribution of biocidal products, the preparation for use in municipal hygiene and agriculture. It is important for our parliamentary group to respect the precautionary principle of both proposals and thus to prevent a biocidal product, which is not safe to use, but also to prevent potential contaminants from endangering the environment, ecosystem, flora and fauna, the nature of environmental processes. Since the adoption of the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination in 2004, for the second time the deadline for obtaining an integrated authorisation for 227 operators on the list of facilities that are obliged to obtain an integrated licence is moved. Since 2011, when the first integrated authorisation was issued for Cementara Kosjeric, 46 permits have been issued. In the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, a total of 119 operators who are obliged to obtain an integrated licence were issued a total of 14 licences. The sector with the largest number of facilities is the intensive livestock and pig farming sector from 93 farms, which are obliged to obtain an integrated permit. Local self-government shall be responsible for issuing an integrated authorisation for livestock and pig farming farms with a specific capacity. Farms that are obliged to obtain integrated permits operate in 46 municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, and the largest number of such farms is in my municipality, in Bačka Topoli. Out of the total of nine large polluters plants in Backo Topoli, eight are farms for livestock and pigs. None of those nine facilities, which means none of the eight farms that are subject to the obligation to obtain an integrated permit have that license. Farms for livestock and pigs, as well as animal waste processing plants, represent potentially large pollutants, as they can cause pollution of surface and underground waters, air pollution. Given the potential for environmental pollution, it is not unusual that the shift in the deadline for obtaining an integrated authorisation by the end of 2024 has caused numerous reactions and criticism. Since I come from a municipality that has the largest number of such farms in Serbia, I can understand the criticism, because I have talked many times about the problem of polluting the Krinja River and in general, endangering the environment in the municipality of Backo Topola. But trying to find a solution to respecting environmental standards in Backo Topoli was clear that a lot of problems in obtaining an integrated permit. Complicated procedures and high costs, as it is one of the most expensive directives in the EU. The lack of personnel at all levels, republican, provincial, and especially at the level of units of local self-government. There are no employees in many units of local self-government who issue integrated permits. So, these local self-governments are forwarding requests to the Ministry that don't have the capacity. Furthermore, the problem is the lack of co-operation between all competent authorities because it is a process that requires co-operation by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Agriculture, Construction, Home Affairs. Then, non-compliant regulations. Most of the existing facilities are in the process of legalisation, privatisation, the resolution of property-legal relations, and not having the necessary consent, not the conduct of inspection bodies. I'm only going to give you one example that illustrates these problems. Locals of the municipality of Backo Topol, Mali Ijoš and Srbobran addressed numerous institutions during the past decade, wrote petitions, protested, seeking a solution to the environmental problem. One of these addresses is the application from the local community of Baša, addressed in 2017 to the environmental inspection sector, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to examine the pollution and the unsustainable smell of the Pravnaja word, and the report “Vojvodina” and the report on the inspection of the water inspector were attached as a confirmation. The report "Voda Vojvodina" of 10 July 2017 states that measured parameters differ significantly from prescribed values for a minimum good environmental status. When we talk about pollution, operators are registered who are draining wastewater in Kriva, which are concentrated in relatively small space, thus contributing to increased water pollution pressure. With wastewater from these operators, huge organic loads are introduced, far above the water supply standards, others say all these pollutants do not respect the Water Act, especially Article 98, which prescribes the obligation to clean up waste water. The basis for the sanctioning of pollutants exclusively belongs to competent inspections, water and environmental protection inspections as well as to judicial authorities are indicated. The law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution stipulates that the launch of the plant's operation and operation without an integrated permit is an economic offense for which an operator should be punished by fines of between 150,000 dinars and 3 million dinars, and the responsible persons to the financial penalty operator of between 30,000 and 200,000 dinars. Unfortunately, despite the explicit legal obligation, the competent inspection authorities do not act on reports of emergency inspection control, nor on applications for a commercial offence against responsible contaminants. I have previously pointed out the need for teamwork by different ministries to resolve the requirements in integrated permits, and there is no doubt that the inspection requires teamwork. In this context, a good solution to the Bill on Biocidal Products, which provides for inspection supervision through the three ministry inspectors, will allow for better control, given the specific knowledge of inspectors in areas where biocidal products and uses are made. A few weeks ago when we discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance, we indicated that we had a dilemma about the proposal that exceptional access to information could be denied if the environment or rare species of plant and animal species were threatened by it. The dilemma was how to balance the interests of the public on the one hand, to have access to data of importance for the protection of human health, animal health and the environment, and to ensure on the other hand the protection of business secrets of intellectual property, i.e. the interest of economic operators. Although the right of citizens to information on presence is substances that cause concern in products laid down by the legal provisions of the applicable Biocidal Act and the provisions of Articles 44 to 49. The bill, research, shows that nearly three-quarters of Serbian citizens, so around 75% are not familiar with this right, and only 2% of citizens who are familiar with this right have used it in practice. In the case of integrated licences, the competent authority shall ensure public access to the content of the requirements for issuing licences and monitoring results. In practice, however, the interested public cannot see all data in one place, as each competent authority has its own licence register. The adoption of a new law fully transposing the directive in industrial emissions is expected to centralise the register in order to make the permits available to the public in one place. The extent to which the records and the Register of Biocidal Products are important also confirms the fact that data from the Register are used in accession negotiations with the European Union, as well as for defining the transitional criteria for the full application of the Biocidal Products Office after accession. Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 of the European The bill stipulates that the Ministry runs a Register of Biocidal Products, which is an integral part of an integral register of chemicals. Finally, I would like to confirm once again that the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will support the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products, as well as the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, as concerns the protection of human life and health and the protection of the environment guaranteeing intergenerational equality, each generation must have the right to not ecological justice, to a healthy life in a healthy environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10372	Thank you. Before we move on to the next speaker, one notice. Today the regular break will be from 13.00 to 14.00 hours. Just so you know, we're planning further commitments. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10373	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Krkobic, the Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I am taking the opportunity to have PUPS parliamentary groups – "Tri P" for the death of our colleague, Muamer Zukorlic, to express my deepest and sincerest condolences to his family and foreigners. May it be his eternal glory. On the agenda of today's session in a united debate are the draft laws that are very important for our citizens in the area of environmental protection, which are the proposal for a law on biocidal products, which has been submitted by the Government, as well as a bill on amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, also proposed by the Government. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" in the voting day will support these laws, as well as other proposals from this session and vote in favour. At the beginning of the debate, and with regard to today's agenda points, I would firstly like to commend the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has proved more recently in practice its real intention to address a very complex problem of environmental protection through the proposal of new legal innovations in the various segments of this broad area that we are going to discuss today. I think that we, even on a symbolic level, are like the National Assembly, putting these two points first in line during the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session, also showed that we are aware that such legal proposals are now, and in the future they must have priority in the process of considering and adopting, and for the general benefit of all of us. The first point of today's discussion – Proposal for a law on biocidal products. For our citizens, this is about various types of herbicides, pesticides, insecticides and other chemical products that each of us, whether it deals with agriculture as a profession, an auxiliary source of income or from some kind of hobby and entertainment, uses to a lesser or greater extent in this production of these products. These certainly include other products used in everyday life - for disinfection of surfaces, equipment, furniture, water and air. Also, these are rodent control products, for the protection of finished products, while they are in the original packaging and many others. We will agree that biocidal products are inevitable in the everyday life of all of us. An ordinary man usually doesn't think much when he routinely buys one of these funds and applies it in everyday life. However, few of us are aware that the production of these products usually uses various inorganic substances, that complex industrial processes are used in their production, that it takes a long time for the end effects of these products to be shown in their full light and most importantly that such products must be handled carefully and carefully when stored, trading, direct application and disposal. Because of all their properties, they can pose a risk to humans, animals, and the environment in general. It is precisely for these reasons that it is necessary to assess and approve them before placing them on the market. For decades, the European Union has been seeking to monitor and regulate all these issues as closely as possible and in more detail its regulations. Continued modernisation, monitoring and approximation of domestic regulations with EU rules is a major obligation for all citizens. In short, what constitutes a major newspaper in this law is that, in future, only those products containing substances on these lists will be automatically downloaded from EU legal flows. On the other hand, active substances that cannot be used in the EU will not even be used in biocidal products placed on the market in our country. This can also achieve significant savings among producers who will not have to obtain in our country a variety of permits and evidence that their product here has passed direct testing and whose issuing process has spent valuable time and money, while direct end-users of these funds will continue to enjoy a high degree of protection and trust in the means they buy and will be leveled with those standards in the EU. In addition to this positive, the other so-called "officer" is expected to be made public in our "officeral messenger". a negative list, i.e. a list of active substances for which an entry has been received at EU level because they have unacceptable effects on human health, animal health or the environment, or an active substance for which complete documentation has not been supplied for the purpose of carrying out the evaluation procedures, as well as lists of those still on the waiting list for entry in the positive list for not being fully completed all relevant studies. The lists to be published will also contain a greater number of data on the properties of these substances, enabling them to be easily identified in transport. All of this should facilitate the work of our inspection bodies who will now have a far clearer picture of what products are allowed to be placed on the market and which are not. Finally, I think it is good that this law establishes and defines procedures for co-operation with EU competent authorities on the exchange of various types of data on the direct practical application of these products in practice, as this can be of great benefit to domestic producers, but also to those abroad, given the climate specificities and diversity of our agricultural production, where various biocidal products in practice can be shown in different conditions with different direct effects. In the second legislative proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants, the deadline for issuing so-called so-called "three years" is projected to be extended. integrated permits to operate existing industries or carry out activities issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which ensure that the activities of these installations are within the limits of environmental regulations. I note that this applies only to entities that are estimated to be the largest environmental pollutants. The extension of this deadline is foreseen for the pro-longing of the final date of our EU accession. Therefore, it is a legal, rather than a practical adjustment to domestic legislation, because it is stated in the light of the law that such licences are already being issued after specific checks and administrative procedures have been carried out. The honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" is aware that the protection of the environment must be continued, that this is a process that cannot be completed and results achieved overnight. It's a process in which each of us must make a full contribution. As MPs, we will do so by giving our support in the day of voting for the adoption of these legal proposals, which should create a further basis for improving the state of our environment. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" in the voting day will give its full support for the adoption of these draft laws. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10374	I thank the esteemed president of the PUPS Parliament Club – "Tri P" Hadji Milorad Stosic. He is the next representative of the SPS Parliament Club, Honorable Professor Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must say in the beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of both of these laws - the Law on Biocidal Products and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environment. Dear Minister, I must address you because you are already here for the sixth time, defending the laws in the field of environmental protection, and I express my satisfaction, as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, and this in some ways shows, not in any way, absolutely showing your great work and the work of your ministry in this period of just a year and it is truly commendable. And what is important to every man and every official -- the best defense mechanism is his work. I think your actions will best protect you in the next period. I don't think it should be pointed out that many who haven't done a lot of work are asking for someone to protect them, and the best protection is their actions, and that's what you've been doing. Before I move to these two laws, I cannot miss an opportunity without today’s pre-exposure on these two laws, which are on the agenda, first looking at the world’s most powerful event in the area of climate change, which is currently being held in Glasgow, Scotland, which, together with a preparatory meeting in Rome, which took place last month, is a unique Summit on climate change. It's a two-week summit, or 26. The United Nations Conference on Climate Change known as COP 26, which will continue until 12 November. CoP 26 participants are signatories of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, including Serbia. Serbia was presented at this summit at the highest level at two levels. The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic participated in the Summit by representing our country and our climate objectives formulated on the basis of the Paris Climate Treaty, as the most important global document on climate change. On the other hand, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, participated in the climate meeting organised by the Interparliamentary Union within the COP 26. This highest level of participation confirms Serbia's strategic determination to actively participate in climate change control through reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Also, for our parliament, which is the bringer of the legal framework for environmental protection, the fight against climate change and adaptation to these changes, it is very important that two of the highest officials in the Republic of Serbia participate. This confirms that some countries' parliaments have announced the existence of an emergency climate change situation, encouraging governments to be ambitious in setting environmental targets. As President Vukic and President Dacic said at the summit, the Republic of Serbia participates in all global initiatives to reduce emissions of harmful gases with the effect of the glass garden, and the obligation to reduce emissions of harmful gases has been incorporated into our laws. Serbia is otherwise a signator and Kyoto and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its legislation continuously adapts to the fight to reduce pollution and regularly update the application of international standards. This is one of the key objectives for Serbia under negotiating Chapter 27 concerning environmental protection. The COP 26 conference in Glasgow is considered the most important global event on climate change since the Paris Conference held in 2015. The main theme is to prevent global warming of the planet, by setting many ambitious and climate goals to achieve a long-term goal, which is to warm up the planet, that there must be no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius, although in my opinion, and any warming from the part of the degree is a huge warming. However, over 2,500 scientists issued a serious warning in 2018 that, as a global society, we are not on track unless the CO2 emissions and other harmful gases are drastically reduced. A good way to preserve the planet would be to change a global economic model of development that, unfortunately, could lead to an ecological disaster. The current development model involves the use of fossil fuel energy, the emission of harmful greenhouse gases, the uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources and the destruction of forests. Our planet is one degree warmer than the end of the 19th century, which has affected the huge climate change that we are witnessing today. The ever-increasing global temperature has increasingly hot heat waves, strong and long-lasting droughts, large forest fires, but also stronger storms and flood waves, and due to the melting of glaciers, the sea level rises. These sudden natural agents can erase decades of social and economic progress. So this summer, in Sicily, an unremembered high temperature of as much as 48.8 degrees was measured. It's getting worse after the survival of the planet and the whole life on it. The plan presented in Glasgow is a limit of further warming to an ideal 1.5 degree. On the other hand, we have a black forecast that warns that the planet can be warmed up to 2.7 degrees, which would be devastating and irretrievably destroying the planet. If we consider the planet the only house of humanity, then we have to turn on the global red alarm, because our house is starting to burn. Dozens of countries have committed to completely abolishing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. This should be done by the largest contaminants, which means stopping the use of coal, intense deforestation of the planet, whose forest man has decimated. The oxygen is the only way to save the planet. It is good that at the summit, President Vukic and President Dacic pointed to a number of restrictions to achieve this global goal, especially for small and underdeveloped countries which are essentially small polluters, but suffer the effects of climate change caused by global warming of air. In that sense, large countries that are large polluters have an obligation to make a priority contribution to reducing the pollution of our planet. Here I think of the most developed countries of the West that do not accept their historical responsibility for climate change, because that kind of responsibility implies their more significant financial participation in the mitigation of the effects of climate change. On the other hand, Serbia as a land of perspective economies increases its economy and thus the emissions of these gases. With us, as in the world, the main pollutants are the energy sector, industry and traffic. The mitigation of the effects of climate change is a complex and very expensive process that requires new industrial technologies and energy transitions, i.e. from coal to clean and renewable energy sources, but regardless of which Serbia is responsible for achieving global targets. As early as 2015, as part of the Paris Agreement, the world's largest and legally binding climate change treaty, Serbia has also drawn up a 10% emission reduction plan, but is ready for the revision of this plan and the government is therefore defined to reduce emissions by up to 30%. Serbia has an obligation to continuously adapt its legislation to the fight to reduce pollution and regularly update the application of international standards under negotiating Chapter 27. Speaking of Chapter 27, I must express my special satisfaction, as the state of Serbia sent a negotiating position to Brussels in January 2020 and showed that it is ready to open ecological negotiations with the EU. We can say that climate change, their mitigation and prevention, the first topic of today, and to protect the environment from air, water and land pollutants, we need to make the most of all, rich and poor. And globally, according to experts, a positive trend can be expected by moving faster from coal to gas and renewable energy sources, by improving energy efficiency to the structural reforms of the world economy that must move to clean technologies and worry about the protection of the environment and the serious revitalisation of devastated areas. I can say that the damages and risks caused by climate change by the economic and economic development of many countries, and thus our countries, are obvious. It is alarming that the risk and threat in the future can endanger infrastructure, agricultural production, clean water access, and most importantly can endanger the public health of our citizens. As part of all these general principles and conclusions of Copa 26, we are today discussing an important law in the field of environmental protection, which is the proposal for a law on biocidal products and I will say more about it. The applicable Biocidal Products Act was adopted in May 2009 when it is in line with then existing sources of European legislation. Since 2013, a new source of rights has been applied in the EU, which is EU Regulation 528/212, which is also Serbia as part of accession negotiations on the obligation to bring its legislation in the area of biocidal products into line with the paper. That's exactly what this new law does in all segments where possible. The main objective of adopting this law is to improve the existing system of placing on the market and use of biocidal products and treated products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It raises the level of protection of human health, animal health and the environment as well as improves the conditions of trade in biocidal products with EU countries and other countries by ensuring the competitiveness of the economy and fostering the development of safer alternatives. To remind us of what biocidal products are, these are some MPs in their presentation earlier said biocidal products are necessary for the control of organisms that are undesirable and have a harmful effect on people, their activities, the products they use, but also products on animals or the environment. Their importance grows daily because of their broad application in everyday life. Biocidal products are also used to disinfect surfaces, equipment, furniture, water and air in households, public health facilities and other notified facilities, industrial facilities and the food industry on farms. Then, it is also used to maintain personal hygiene and to disinfect healthy human skin, as well as to reflect animal hygiene, biocidal products are used to suppress insects and rodents, to protect finished products while in the original packaging for the protection of wood also rubber, paper, textiles, for the protection of water or other liquids in waste and process systems. On the other hand, because of their chemical and other properties to destroy, deter, make them harmless, prevent or otherwise control harmful organisms, biocidal products can pose a risk to people, lives and the environment. As a result, the EU has established strict rules and procedures to reduce all the risks of biocidal products, the basic principle is that the biocidal product must be approved by the competent institution before it becomes available on the market or starts to be used. The fundamental objective of the new law based on precautionary methods is that the placing on the market and use of biocidal products is strictly controlled in the context of possible risks to human, animal and environmental health. We know that biocidal products, in order to fulfill their mission, contain certain active substances that just act on undesirable organisms in products used in the human and animal world. To avoid contraindications, the use of active substances in biocidal products requires rigorous control of their characteristics. What is good is also prescribed by law, that active substances which, based on their characteristics, classify themselves as hazardous to the health and functioning of the endocrine system, as well as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic by reproduction, can be replaced by other harmless. The law essentially increases responsibility and transparency. In general, the new Bill on Biocidal Products, which is before us, represents a more complete legal solution that deserves the process of placing on the market and the use of biocidal products, their advertising and presentation, and the conditions for import, but it is most important for their safe use. All this is in line with European standards. The draft law also cited certain reasons why certain solutions did not fall under the obligation to comply with international humanitarian law. So we can say that this law represents a safer solution to our citizens' health and environmental protection, and their adoption confirms Serbia's firm commitment to make significant progress in the segment of health protection and environmental protection. The second bill of law will be discussed by more of my fellow MPs. I will say that the SPS parliamentary group will vote on these two draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10376	Thank you. Next on the list is the representative of the Electoral Club Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, the honourable MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course the SNS Group will support both of these laws. They are very important in harmonising for the protection of land, air and water. I welcome all organisations that advocate environmental protection, because they are very important. However, there are parapolitical organisations reportedly seeking to protect the environment, and in fact they are dealing with politics, which is not disputed if it is political parties. I must warn you that especially foreigners advocate a clean environment in Serbia, that it is almost incredible. Look out, Viola von Kramon comes on the day we had a dialogue with that parliamentary joint group with the European Parliament, comes to Loznica and comes to diesel car. It advocates environmental protection, especially for Zelenovic, who is qualified for environmental protection only because he has green in his last name. He's not that green. She could have checked that he had recovered slightly from the fivem euros, which the DRI determined and that only thanks to our yellow judiciary and the old age that came for the already passed verdict did the penalty not become legal. And she goes to Loznica with a car that is not electric, but a diesel, to advocate that Rio Tinto is not working in Serbia and to return the service that is 90 greens, as the organisation in which it is called, was Chabradi, who here signed that there was a genocide in Srebrenica, that Serbs made genocide and others who qualified against the country of Serbia, which here signed everything and everything. They supported the green party in Germany during the recent elections, in which Viola von Kramon, who returned the favor by coming to support the green ones, because, behold, she cares about protecting the environment in Serbia. She didn't get into an electric car. Let's say, we did it during Gilas's rule, and all these greens were something in those former parties of the former regime, etc. and who are now allegedly seeking to protect the environment, so I'm going to give an example. For example, in India, they've made a recycling of lead batteries on the water supply. To get a study on the impact of the environment, they held a session of the Indji Municipality Assembly and wiped out the water supply from the spatial plan, since they could not get permission without it and build it on the water supply, and waste water goes into a splendor canal. It's a mile and a half from the center of India, and if a murder occurs one day in India, you know that's what the parties of the former regimes who are now all of a sudden pushing for environmental protection. Just to remind you of the aflatoxin that is very important, which comes from nature, from agriculture, that one of their representatives said that milk is not healthy although in 4/5 of the world meets the criteria, but, behold, the extra-tariff measure of the European Union is very strange, so he advocated healthy milk, etc., and later we caught it, Goran Jesic, that it has a wild milkmaker that was not registered at that time for the "Milk Republic", he has more republics than the SFRY, and the Užički Republic has "Fruit Republic". We found him a wild, somewhere near Alexandrovac, a wild plant for the production of some marmalades, ivars, etc., which of course did not pass all these analyses, nor raw materials, nor finished products, but, behold, he also advocates the protection of the environment. When it came to his wallet, he delivered milk that didn't pass any analysis, not just on aflatoxin, believe it or not, to the clinic center of Vojvodina. Where, in turn, one of the directors was also Mrs. Pajtic, who did not come by nepotism, she was the one who was the expert, and she was the one with which the milk was not passed and the dairy product was no analysis. So it's this team that allegedly advocates healthy water, healthy air, what's called that Chutina organization, something called, "We defend the Old Mountain River." If you don't give me the hydrocentrale, then I'll be against all the hydrocentrals in the Republic of Serbia, but before, when it's rejected from revenge, it says -- well, when I can't build in Serbia, no one will build. Confessed to a man on television, I watched, that he got from an organization called River Watcher, which has 4,500 hydropower plants. They have 4,500 power plants, and Serbia has 10, but they have decided to fight for Serbian rivers and he has received several times from the Austrian organisation that what does not harm Austria, allegedly damages Serbia, that it is fighting the hydrocentrals even though it was once for the hydrocentral. Then when you take all these environmental organizations, you get an interesting case. A protest was held by an organization called the Green Ecological Party. There's a lot of these green parties, but this one's specific. So, a few years ago, a protest was held, these were their initials, led by a certain Bulatovic. He was the first member of the organization, then in a strange way became head of the organisation and he held a protest in favour of environmental protection. The protest expressed so much with 100 diesel cars and circulated for four hours through Shid as a sign of attention to environmental protection and spent between three and four tons of elevators, and almost no car, here it is, there are no lies, no car had a catalyst. Let me remind you of that Chabradi, when his car broke down and he drove off to the service in Novi Sad, and the man told him, the worker, your catalyst went away, should we change or extract? If we change, it costs you. Oh, no, it looks like he's taking it out. That's how it was here, without a catalyst, hundreds of cars in the protection of the environment orbiting for four hours. I would call it environmental pollution, but, well, the man who handed this party over or sold it to Dragan Gilas, who was called the Green Ecological Party, he heard that he was more red-minded because he cut off 400 platans, did he, Mr. Bakarec, and then thought that since he cut greenery in Belgrade, and since it's the same way that it hurts the environment like this one with cars, who says, was born for the quasi fighting environment against pollution. With the utilising canvas, they qualified for pollution, i.e. driving diesel cars for four hours through Shid. They wanted to draw attention so that they could protect the environment. As for the support of Viola von Kramon, where these green environmental organisations asked for Serbs in Germany to vote for Viola von Kramon, it was the green party of that Fisher, who vigorously advocated the bombing of Serbia, and that was probably for the benefit of the environment, this bombing, and I don't know, 22 thousand tons of bombs, that was a beneficial look. Then the team of the environmental organisation said -- that it was voting for the party that sought to bomb Serbia, for Viola von Kramon, and she came back later on a return visit to support those environmental organisations. That Serbian citizens know that Viola von Kramon is a trademark of the wild state of Kosovo and asks Serbia, it requires Serbia to recognise this false state, to shoot ourselves in the leg, etc. For me, it is inconceivable that environmental organisations, a party that took part in Serbia's decision to bomb and that the Germans return here to war on Serbia's territory again, I find strange Serbian organisations supporting Violi von Kramon. No wonder she supports them, because basically they're doing our damage. So, I've been telling you for five years that they are willing to recognise Kosovo, to give up the Republika Srpska, the interest of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro, anything just to get to some government in a wild way. The last visit to this environmentalist from the Green Ecological Party to change its name is best said I was right all along. These environmental organisations say -- a protest in Belgrade. None of them came by bicycle, except perhaps Marinika, that's the model – Nikola Jovanovic 2019, 2020, it seems to me that she was the only one who came by bicycle so hard her comrades, and all the others came by diesel cars, as well as this unfortunate Bulatovic, and they damaged the environment and they staged a protest. They want roads, but they don't want quarrys. They want roads without stones, so I see, or that the stone is imported from Europe or some distant countries and that these costs are higher. They want electricity, but they don't want thermal power plants, they don't want nuclear power plants, they don't want hydropower, they don't want wind parks, we scare birds, they can suffer etc., but they would power. They must remember when we were at Gilas heating up solar energy, they're for solar energy and electric cars, but they're against lithium. They're for phone imaging, but they're against lithium regardless of what lithium batteries are in both electric cars and mobile phones. They are for lithium, but that these cars are produced in another country of these batteries, and their philosophy – can be introduced, but cannot be produced, because imported lithium is less harmful than domestic lithium because, as I know, labour will work somewhere in some countries to earn, and Serbs should live out of the air. Every industry affects the environment. It is up to us to assess the standards to be at least possible, so these laws go in that direction, that as little damage as possible in natural activity can be done to the environment. Do you know how much agriculture affects the environment? Very much so. We should advocate sustainable agriculture in some future period, since the use of excessive fertilisers and pesticides significantly damages the air, water, land, and without a healthy country you cannot get a healthy plant, without a healthy plant there are no healthy animals, and without healthy plants and animals there can be no healthy people. That is why we are intertwined with health and agriculture to a significant extent, because the people have recently been fed in a way from intensive agricultural production that harms the environment, especially livestock farming, which in Europe, for example, limits the number of kilograms of fertilisers that can be produced by one farm which is not yet the case with us. So, we're going to have to adapt our agrarian policy, because in Europe, you don't just have direct monitoring and rural follow-up development, and now there's an ecology, so that agriculture takes place under environmental standards. So what's good for Europe must be good for us in terms of methane, damage, greenhouse effect, ways of preparing food I can talk about it for hours. So, agriculture, many of them are deluded, think that it goes to the benefit of the environment, but it does seriously harm the environment unless we change a little bit of the way and adapt it to sustainable development of agriculture, that is to say, a little respect for traditions that the more we use manure, the less we use mineral fertilisers, the less we use pesticides, so on and so forth, because this directly causes damage, not only to animal health, but also to human health. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am particularly irritated by environmental organisations doing this for political purposes. You today have environmental organizations that admit to receiving money from abroad. You have an organisation of a "yellow duck" or "We're not drowning Belgrade", which has admitted to getting money from abroad, and I'm surprised that the Open Society Fund, this Sorosev, financed the organisation "We're not drowning Belgrade", when one of the conditions in Soros is that projects that have a political purpose, in favour of politics, narcotics, etc. But, behold, my God, they can receive money from abroad, although it is a parapolitical organisation, in fact, a citizens' association, which is a hidden party that goes out to the elections, and our law says political parties cannot be financed from abroad, which is obviously the organisation "We don't strangle Belgrade" and this Mutina as it is called, violates and directly receives money from abroad. We now have associations of citizens who are unregistered political parties and we have unregistered gatherings in favour of the environment and other issues, where unregistered organisations participate, but participate, not only report, and unregistered media, and all of this has in a certain way been joined against the Republic of Serbia, not only against political leadership, against MPs, against the Assembly, against the Government, against the President of the Republic, and they have joined directly against the state of Serbia, looking to harm the state, and they are not willing to support those who have significantly threatened the environment in the Republic of Serbia. It is man who causes environmental damage and the environment defends itself. And the war against the environment and nature and against God no one has won. Climate change is the best evidence of how guilty man is, and this has mainly been contributed to by large industrial countries that have significantly threatened the environment by industry, created an effect of glass gardens, etc., and now to the dams, which I can support if this struggle is sincere, in the protection of the environment, because the question of the survival of a man who has compromised the environment beyond the measure allowed. Namely, to throw 22,000 tons into Serbia, that's 22 million pounds, each of us got three kilos of explosive material on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, and one of the organizations that supported such a brutal bombing from Germany, I don't know how many hospitals, schools, etc., to remind you that they damaged the chemical industry, that they damaged two refineries, or that they hit two refineries, a warehouse of ammonia, etc., transformers, have significantly disrupted the environment today, and today those with these unfortunates from the Republic of Serbia, that I don't tell traitors, who, for some money, support everything that is against us, so that some violence, hanging, and I don't know what they all threaten us with power. So, those who bombed us, now they're the most concerned about the environment in Serbia, which was threatened by the bombing, which is for sure also for the bombing of refineries and about the bombing of various "Krusik", "Freedom", "Barica", I can't remember exactly what they've bombed, but mostly, the bombing was not for the benefit of the environment, but was for the benefit of Albanians, for whom Viola wants us to recognise the wild state of Kosovo, created by brutal bombing, and yet our 90 environmental organisations ask that the Serbs in Germany vote for Viola von Kramon, whose party participated in the decision on bombing and whose country took part in the environmental damage in the Republic of Serbia. So I don't think they're qualified to do that, and they want to tell us that the poor uranium is harmless, that the maltenes are medicinal. Well, when he's harmless and he's healing, let them throw him on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10378	I thank the honourable MP Marijan Rističević. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 1400 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10379	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work on the list. The first word has a National MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10380	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Srlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Assembly I was selected from the list “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children” and I represent here in the Assembly United Peasants' Party. As before today, I was talking about the MP club I'm in, where we worked together for the good of all of us. Now I'm going to say more about what life means, the Biocidal Matters Act that we're talking about right now. It's something very important, because during the pandemic all those chemicals used to suppress certain organisms that harm and human health and animal health, which are important now when disinfection is done, when disinfection is done, all of these biocidal substances must have their place, they must be known in which way and where they work and how it works. That's why the law that was passed in 2009 is now being fixed, arranged, arranged. In this way we will have one certainty, because for all of us who work here, who work here, is the environment, is human health, is animal health something that is most important, because all of this is about the future, about development and all of what we do here in the Assembly. Positive things are that we're going to put this in one piece to make it all transparent, visible. I think it's the right thing to do. I think we're going to help this to solve certain problems for the benefit of all the citizens of our Republic of Serbia, to solve problems and, of course, to get out of this difficult situation, it's a pandemic of covid, where there are a large number of people who have not yet been vaccinated. I'm taking the opportunity to call all those people who haven't been vaccinated to be vaccinated, because it's the only cure to save our country and all of us. One of the more important things is this other environmental law, where we will have the opportunity to change a number of members, where the deadline will be extended from December 2020 to 2024, to provide a sufficient number of perpetrators, people who will have the opportunity to do all these necessary permits for all those economic operators who need it to function. This morning, as part of the MPs' issue institute, I said a few concrete things that happen for pollution and pollution in the city of Nis, which was one of the most polluted cities. We had at the end of the previous year and a meeting of the city's administration, mayors, all the people who work on it, where certain guidelines were given, where the Ministry of Ecology is competent. We accept that, normally, and expect that together within the 2022 budget, we will be in the context of the European funds that are now present and that should be used to address the problem of pollution, because this is very important for every man living in the territory of the city of Nis, both in Belgrade and in Novi Sad and all these major centres. The only salvation is that certain things change, to ensure, now that the state is able to change certain things like heating and all that is related to energy efficiency. The big thing is that it's done. I think it's right, and I think we're all going to support it, that in 2022 and in the coming years, it's going to give results to reduce pollution. I have confidence in our government, I trust you, Minister, I trust our president of Serbia, because everything we do here, we do in the interest of every citizen, so whether he lives in Srlig, Nis, whether he lives in Novi Sad, whether he lives in Prepolje or Belgrade. For all of us, human health is important, environmental protection, and we will work on it with all our hearts for the coming years. By the way, I think it is necessary and that we will also have the opportunity in the budget to solve certain problems, I am specifically speaking for the city of Nis, because the town of Nis is the centre of Southeastern Serbia, because in Nis we cannot end up in Nis. Once again, dear colleagues, I will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws, because it is necessary, because everything we do is in the interest of all our citizens in our country of Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10381	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10382	Dear Members of Parliament, this morning when the deadline was scheduled for asking questions, you also mentioned Nis, and we will certainly provide you with the answers, but my obligation is now to answer your budget. As you know, next year's budget is almost doubled. This is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, one of the priorities and the ministry will try to make sure that everything that is necessary is just being implemented next year, when we speak and protect both water and air and country. I have to tell you that this year has been enough of a budget for us, of course, that it's never enough and that we always have all the grudges, and that there will always be little when we talk about this subject, because we need time, in addition to, of course, the resources that we're detaching. I have to tell you about Nis, there are several competitions, a total of 15.64 million dinars. So they had a hammock contest, 3.64 million dinars, 252 seedlings, in several municipalities in the town of Nis. What's even more important is the individual padlocks you were also talking about. I must tell you, and ask you all, to raise the awareness of the citizens from this booth with our influence and our possibilities, of course, every day. Because here's what happened to the Nish competition, he's still going on for individual bars. In the first call, there were insufficient numbers of citizens. We are now talking about how we should leave more resources and how we should all pay attention, and we come into a situation where one third of the citizens, or one third by some scale, can use those funds. Here and now the competition is going on, it's being restored by November 22nd. Please, talk to people so they can come forward and take advantage of the state's subsidies, so they can certainly live in a healthier and cleaner environment. Also, I was in Nis a few days ago, historical waste, cleaning up historical waste. So, the Nis Electric Industry, the component's electricity industry, what hasn't been cleaned up for decades, and that was a serious risk to the citizens. We're cleaning it up now. We're totally cleaning up all kinds of waste, with inspection controls, inspection records at the end where everything is cleaned up in zero. That's what's important when we talk about aero pollution. Also, I talked to the mayor about the Nis recession building, which is located in the city center, and it represents a major contaminant, that you all talk together with the management and that those at the next competition that will be held at the Ministry at the beginning of the year, report together with the local self-government unit. D So there are solutions, but we also need to have ready projects and be active, to report and to fight to win additional funds, or subsidies. So I ask you, first of all, for the citizens, to take advantage of this opportunity to replace individual and lodges. I must remind you that we are doing this, that we are changing the boiler room completely in the city of Valjev, Koserić, Kragujevac. You could see that. The New Market has already been replaced. So, in 38 local self-government units across Serbia, we've already done it, and somewhere right now there's work going on. Of course, for next year we left even more funds in that position as one indicator that the units of local self-government responded well. This Nisa thing, it's an exception, but in general, everyone's preparing projects and they're going to come up and take advantage of those possibilities. For shaming, just the planting season is on its way now, so we expect in the next month to forestize all those municipalities that haven't done it yet. Namely, 150,000 seedlings will be distributed throughout Serbia through the competition. Once again, to point out that cleaning up historical waste is also extremely important in curbing aero-pollution and pollution of water and land and that we will continue next year to separate funds from everything that is necessary, and that municipalities and cities will run as their projects needed for the better life of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10384	Replica. I thank you, Minister. What I asked this morning, and speaking now, I trust you and I know that you do your job the best way, it's visible. All those things that have been done over the years, that's visible. I've talked more than once about this waste, the chemical waste that was in the electronic power plant in Nis, which also has some carcinogenic matter, which is very dangerous. It's a big deal you're doing, and it's an honor to you. Otherwise, about these individual bars, we all have to do more, we have to talk more about it, because what matters is Nis has competed, defined the funds, but now some things we need to be more with the citizens of Nis and with all the people of local self-government who work there, that they live there, that they have to be better informed. It's normal for these competitions to compete. The big thing is that we're dealing with these wastewaters otherwise, I'm from Srlig, it's a municipality that's 20 kilometers from Nis, we've got the means to solve the sewage network, we've got the resources to do the waste water collector. We solve waste water that way, and that's a prerequisite for our healthy environment, for our healthy life. Nis, Srlig, and the other municipalities will certainly be much more active in the coming years. I thank you again, I know you're very active, you're doing your job the best you can. What we're doing must be visible, but on the other hand, as an MP, I had to say something about it, not because I wanted to criticise it, because I wanted to hear these things that you're saying right now, which other citizens in the territory of Southeast Serbia must hear. Thank you again, and I will support all of these proposals, and I am sure that next year, since double the resources for environmental protection and environmental protection, we will all work together, and in every place I have to be present to people to share certain knowledge. I invite you, as the minister in charge, to reach a small environment, Srlig, and when I say the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, I really do, but we certainly need more help. Now we've got four and a half million euros to solve the sewer network and we're doing it together with the ministry, along with the people of our country. Once again, we must continue to work for the benefit of all citizens in our Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10385	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10386	In 2009, as advances like to say, the yellow regime passed a law on biocidal products per dictatorship from the EU, based on the directives the EU has handled for them. We are now passing the same law, according to the same dictatorship, only the EU regulation that solves the area. It is common knowledge that people belonging to the people's network, me belonging to that organisation and that kind of political movement and the political public, are not in the mood for this condescending attitude towards the EU. There are a thousand reasons and five minutes is not enough to list them, but in this area, an ecologicality one serious reason stands as an elephant among all of us, and often political elites from the opposition and from the authorities try not to see it, which is an ecocid made by the Brussels military wing, which is NATO in 1999. They targeted Kosovo and Metohija and the Vranj region, targeted the impoverished uranium, and the northern areas were shot at the gambling map, targeted petrochemical plants, the chemical industry, the trafostations. They caused a large-scale ecocidation, and today no one has investigated it until the end. It's true that there was an epidemic of cancer, which we're not talking about either. It is true that this relationship to the 1999 ecocid is the real waterhouse that defines whether they are sincere in defending or simply serving the interests of those such as Yosaka Fisher, in 1999 with the wave of green paint and with the ecology in their mouths to approve that their troops and their people, their military wing, carry out an ecocid in our space. And that is true, and as among us there are various people among the opposition ranks, various ideas, as I never hide that I have no problem in supporting what the ruling majority is doing, as I have no problem today voting for Mr. Komlenski's proposal to create a commission that will determine the number of victims of NATO aggression, and you have not voted for it even though it is your MPs. As I had no problem voting for Mr. Linta's proposal to protect our people from the Krajina, and you didn't vote for it, even though it was your MP. So, like that's not my problem, I don't even have a problem supporting you in what you're right. You're right that many environmental organizations are just an extended arm of the German Greens, which is just an extended arm of American influence in this space. So they don't have the right to swear to ecology, if they work for the interests of those parties that budget them, which in 1999 supported the ecocid in our space. But this relationship with that in 1999, it's a good waterhouse for both SNS, and as many things you do only from marketing and propaganda, so in 2017 you started to form a Commission for Research after NATO bombing. At the head of the Commission, Dr Dana Grujic, the right man in the right place, three of your ministries supported it, but in the end, when it was supposed to be finalised, to formalise the prime minister, then and today, Mrs Brnabic did not sign the document, and the issue remains formally unresolved. Why aren't you ready to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing? Why aren't you prepared to investigate the consequences of the victim's identity? Why aren't you ready to investigate the consequences in an ecological sense? Perhaps because you are stared at the EU you are still doing the same agenda - the EU has no alternative, which they have done and yellow, as you call them. I don't want to be unfair. Of course, it is easy from the position of the opposition MP to be tough on the EU. You have a greater responsibility and therefore you have to be careful how you treat them, but if one day I am in a position of government, I will stand for something called – a critical review of our path to the EU. So don't say no to the EU. This seems easy and irresponsible, but we need to examine what we have lost to our interest in EU advocacy. Well, for example, as Republika Srpska requests to return everything to Dayton, so we should ask that everything return to Resolution 1244 and thank the EU for owning in a Brussels process that has completely lost its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10387	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10388	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the dignity of the National Assembly. Earlier, my esteemed colleague Glisic presented several facts that are not true at all. I pray that the National Assembly does not represent as an extended arm of NATO or an organ that amnests NATO or an organ that amnests a criminal aggression against the Republic of Serbia that was committed and the SRJ that was committed in 1999. First of all, I must point out that since the arrival of the SNS to power, for the first time you can hear from the official representatives of the government what we called that intervention that was in 1999 - criminal aggression. For the first time since the Prime Minister was Alexander Vucic, and now the President of the Republic of Serbia we are reminding the world public, marking the beginning of this aggression that was committed to the Serbian state, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. We are not making any amnesty towards those who bombed Serbia with poor uranium, because as far as I know, the Commission that is dealing with the study of the consequences is also established, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the member and president of the Commission is our distinguished colleague Darko Laketic. It's not that black and white. And we don't make laws exclusively for the sake of the EU directive, because we also make laws that are in the interest of us, especially our citizens, because if you look at the law we are now discussing is about the health of our citizens. As far as criminal aggression is concerned, it will always be what it is for us. We'll call her a real name. We did not deserve anything so brutally, bestially, to be destroyed, destroyed, and we will remind the world's public of the crime that took place towards the Serbian state and Serbian citizens. Yes, every esteemed colleague has it in mind that as long as the SNS is in power, what happened to Serbia in 1999 we will call and condemn as necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10389	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Veloljub Arsic: No. All right. You don't want to. Mr. Gliss, you can't rephrase. You can, possibly injure the Rules of Procedure on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10390	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Minister Vujovic with his associates, I am pleased to see you very often in this high House, which speaks of your loyalty and commitment to the work you do at the Ministry. Let me say a few terms about protecting and improving the environment. Minister, it is your Ministry that solves the problem of Covin's waste, which was threatened by one, let's say, an ecological disaster. Also closed is the non-sanitary dump of Stanjevina, one of the largest environmental bombs in Serbia. It's your credit and the ministry's credit. I note that the ministry has allocated funds to resuscitate the transfer of the station to Novi Varoša and Književec, as well as funds for the recovery of the dump in Čačka and Trstenik. There are a lot of these problems that the ministry has solved and will solve in due course, but let me point out that there are also separate financial resources for eight new regional waste management centres that will cover dozens of local self-government in Serbia. The ministry also expressed its readiness to help citizens, cities and municipalities resolve their wild deposits to the satisfaction of all citizens of the local self-government. What is very important is that almost twice as much funding as is planned in the planned budget for 2022 than in this year, which says how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia and this Assembly attaches importance to protecting the improvement of the human environment. I note, protection is a promotion of the environment, not only politically. It is also a political but economic issue and a security issue, if you will, it is also an educational issue and on this aspect should insist in the future especially on educational institutions. When it comes to the former regime, of course they did not take care of the protection and promotion of the human environment, it is enough to note that their minister, Oliver Dulic, has been arrested. He only paid 23,000 euros for the "Let's Clean Serbia" site. He was associated at the time as a minister with the mafia, in four, five European countries, with 40 and some firms. So it was a mob regime, symbolized not only by Oliver Dulic, but also by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic. They're the same brothers. Speaking of which, let me say that Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic are constantly working against the vital and national interests of our country, apparently citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not gonna say anything in my head. I'll follow that with concrete evidence. Gilas and Borko Stefanovic met in the U.S. then and with the Shiptar lobbyists, who together, behold, miracles, sent Biden a letter asking Biden and the United States to impose sanctions on the Republic of Serbia, for allegedly corruption and pressure on the media. It is not known in mankind's history that a president of a political party, such as Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, is asking for his own country to be bombed. Dear citizens, it is no wonder when it comes to Dragan Gilas, a man of 619 stolen millions of euros. He's done it before. I'll just remind you of some data. Gilas said in a conversation with the US Embassy's envoy at the embassy in Belgrade on 29th August, quote: "I advocate the extradition of Ratko Mladic to The Hague and I will give up KIM." It's a finished quote. Here we are, respected citizens when he gave up KIM and began to develop our country. No wonder he was doing it the day before yesterday. Mr. Ratko Mladic, Mr. Gilasu, remember well, never, never, never, will not give up the southern Serbian province. However, I recommend, Mr. Gilas, that you remember only one sentence from Mr. Mladic, and it reads, that sentence reads this way, and I quote: "The limits are drawn and terminated by blood, and the country defends by all means. It is not a dead fighter who gives his life to defend his country, he who has lost his eternal hearth is dead." It's a finished quote. Mr. Gilas, it is my recommendation that you frame it and put it in the living room to remind yourself of the patriotism you don't have and which you don't show these days. Dear citizens, Gilas wrote a letter to Donald Tusk in 2020, the President of the European People's Party, and he resented it, to see how much he worked against the state, only because he congratulated President Vukic on everything he did for the Republic of Serbia during his term and wished him victory in the parliamentary elections. Can you believe a president of the opposition party can do that to his country and to his president? And he says - your president, he doesn't admit it. We never, ever, ever told my colleagues on this side and denied that Boris Tadic was not and was our president. Of course he's the president of Serbia. That is Gilas's relationship to this country is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gilas accused Aleksandar Vukic of harassing the citizens and destroying Serbia. Well, it wasn't Alexander Vukic who stole, Mr. Gilas, 619m euros, it was you, Mr. Gilas. Well, it's not Alexander Vukic, it's you, Mr. Gilas, who destroyed factories in Serbia and your associates, and Alexander Vukic builds them daily and modernizes the Republic of Serbia. You've replaced thesis. Gilas also attacked the US ambassador to Serbia, to see respected citizens and MPs, how much he is working against his country. You know why he attacked him? Only because he praised Alexander Vukic for what he did for Serbia. Gilas said, quote: "Godfrey will end a mandate that will only make sense if he opens a Serbian restaurant in America, since he mainly deals with tours of culinary activities and praises Alexander Vukic." It's a finished quote. That's what Dragan Gilas does, in a people called the Gicky Mafia. Believe it or not, the "God of Justice" anthem also bothers Gilas. You saw on his TV "S Nova", a journalist spat out to the state of Serbia just because the Ministry of Education left "God of Justice" to the students of our country at the beginning of the school year. In July 2020, Gilas was in the Republic of Croatia, where he accused Alexander Vukic of being removed from power with the help of Europe and the Croats, he said, quote - I guarantee you, therefore, the Croats, that I will bring Vukic down with power with the help of Europe. In Serbia, the party of Milosevic's student Dacic and Seselj's student, Vukic, are in power. It's a finished quote. You forgot, Mr. Gilas, that in Serbia, the elections do not elect Europe, nor do the Croats choose Croatia, but are elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, Dragan Gilas is constantly insulting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the state of Serbia. Gilas' journalist, Aleksandra Glavowski, said, quote - It is not normal for students to go to school with lyrics, quote – serving Serbian brothers dearly. It's a finished quote. It's nothing, Gillas' journalist said. Can you believe, dear citizens, that this is pronounced by Gilas' journalist, of course, according to Dragan Gilas' instructions? Gilas accused Serbia and Alexander Vukic of being a country where there is no freedom and democracy these days. Look at the miracles, Gilas is talking about freedom and democracy, and I won't answer him. To him is his professor. Vesna Pesic responded, with which I am totally contrary to politics. She said to Gilas: “Mr. Gilas, it is unfortunate that for so many years you have bewildered the people, and you have not learned anything about democracy. So the boycott of the election you advocate is not democracy and it is not politics." It's a finished quote. And his professor, Dr Vesna Pesic, who runs the political council with Vuk Jeremic, and also with him, see, she answered him. What can I say about Dragan Gilas? In 2009, Gilas best responded to the Ambassador Cameron Manter at the time, when Manter said, quote: "Gilas assured me that his plan for Belgrade was not real, but marketing." It's a finished quote. Here, respected citizens, you don't find it strange that he is attacking everything that is being built in Belgrade, and Belgrade on water and all possible facilities. His counterpart, Gilasov, Vuk Jeremic, also attacks the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia these days, constantly calling for some fiction. I'll just mention a few things about Mr. Jeremic. Jeremic said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Poe in December 2008, "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is best for Serbia, which is to be hoped for if it is lucky". Dear citizens, here, you see how they betrayed the Republic of Serbia. Well, that's what they're doing today. In 30.11.2016, Jeremic sued Alexander Vukic America, behold, miracles, what he and Gilas are doing today, that Aleksandar Vukic secretly met with Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin and presented Alexander Vukic as a very dangerous man in America. Can you believe, respected citizens, that's what the president of a political party does? Jeremic sued both the president of the state and the Republic of Serbia for spreading stability in the Balkans when Aleksandar Vucic met with Makron. Well, here, they're doing it today, yesterday in America, etc. What I ask you, Mr. Vuke Jeremic, in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is he doing at your Centre for International Relations and Sustainable Development, Swiss diplomat Michelin Kalmi Ray, who has been lobbying for decades for independent Kosovo? In fact, this Swiss woman represents Natasa Kandic at international meetings. Natasa Kandic once said at an international rally that she represents, whether believed or not, honest Serbia, so she presented. It is this honest Serbia, a traitor to Serbia, a respected citizen, that I translate this into an ordinary dictionary for you. Finally, here, respected citizens, you see that for years Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic have been working against the vital national interests of our country, while the President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic spends every day a policy of peace, a policy of our country's security, a policy of health for all of our citizens in these difficult pandemic times and not only in our country, but also in the environment, a policy of economic progress, a policy of accelerated modernisation of Serbia, that, respected citizens, for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10391	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10392	Thank you, Chairman. Biocid is a product designed to destroy biologically and chemically, to make it harmless and control unwanted organisms. Today, unfortunately, it is almost impossible to maintain the life we are used to without the use of biocidal products, because with the growth of the human population, microbes, viruses, bacteria that can be controlled by the sole use of biocidal products, which must again be balanced with nature and the living world. It is therefore very important, but also a demanding role for all those who deal with this problem. The Biocidal Products Act, which was adopted in 2009, has taken a completely new approach to resolving the issue of the use of biocidal products and their placing on the market and has implemented most of the EU directives. Meanwhile, changes have occurred in the EU, so the old directives have been replaced by new regulations that need to harmonise the rules on the availability of biocidal products and ensure uniform operating conditions in the EU markets. The essence of the new Biocidal Products Act, which is ahead of us, is the introduction of rules for the biocidal product authorised to be used on the EU market by competent EU commissions to be automatically authorised for use in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as well. So far, EU products have had to be included in the provisional list of biocidal products. The new law avoids double steps, i.e. a double assessment of products for which approval has already been granted under EU rules and regulations. The law also regulates the placing on the market of biocidal products. By law, this area was not precisely regulated so that the proposal for a new law is also significant. Further labelling of such products will focus on how to deal with treated products when they become waste and in a transparent way will introduce consumers to what the product is treated as consistent with consumer interests as public health, both human and animal and environmental. The aim of the law is to improve the protection of human health and the environment of compliance with EU rules. The new legal solution should ensure that everyone in the chain of supply of biocidal products is obliged to comply with the regulations governing the area. The proposed legal solutions will affect the distributor as well as the user. It will have an obligation to provide, in accordance with the rules, an act on which it is available on the market, to classify the product, package, label and build a safety list for it in accordance with the provisions of this law. This law also creates obligations for a person who puts a biocidal product on the market to mark it in a precise way so that the consumer has complete information on everything. The provisional list of biocidal products lists 2,006 of which is 258 domestic producers, 265 importers of biocidal products from EU countries, so that this law does not affect the rights and obligations of operators who place biocidal products already listed in the provisional list. Dried man's need to breathe air, what water he drinks, and what food he eats. When we talk about the proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, I would refer to the recently held Summit in Glasgow where world leaders gathered with one goal – to prevent and stop further climate destruction. There was a debate about what was achieved by the Paris Agreement. The objectives set are to make the most of renewable energy sources, increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions of harmful gases. So much more important news is that Serbia's government has signed an agreement to co-finance the construction of solar panels for households in Kragujevac, as one of 37 cities approved in the Ministry of Mining and Energy's competition. The goal is to reduce consumption by 30% to solar panels, and this will also mean lower household accounts and a very important reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. Another big news also comes from Kragujevac, a city that, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, will modernise the system of remote heating by building a boiler room on gas. This will again affect the reduced emissions of harmful gases and the reduction of air pollution that are disturbingly high in the winter months. It is good and important that the issue of ecology became a question of one and a question of national importance, and I would really commend this in the work of the Ministry, whose head you are at, Mrs Vujovic, because you started, somewhere and ended, major projects that would solve decades of problems that just piled up and represent an ecological bomb. Benjamin Franklin said that only when he's drying the source do we realize what the value of the water is. I hope we never let that happen. The fight will certainly be long, but it is important that significant steps are made. Actually, it's important to walk, not to stand in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10393	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10394	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with an associate, today we have two laws on the agenda that are not only connected in the field of environmental protection, but also have some common characteristics, which are characteristics that both laws must have a large number of personnel capable of implementing these laws. The other thing is the financial resources needed to implement this, directly or indirectly implement the law itself. The third thing is the length of the implementation duration that has been measured for months, sometimes for years. These are the Law on Biocidal Products and the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants. When it comes to this second law, I'd have to say that you gave an extremely good explanation and a very real explanation and an explanation of the laws that I would like to comment on. I think you want this kind of explanation that you've given to solve the problems that have been accumulated here in our society, but you're also aware that it's not easy. You're telling yourself that the amendments to this law are only termological, not essential. In essence, the amendments to this law only speak of extending the deadline for those operators who failed to obtain integrated permits, and I would like to remind you, and you have mentioned it yourself since 2004, when this law was first implemented and then in 2015 and when the deadline was until the end of 2020, and now we extend that deadline until 2024. First, we need to see who needs to get the integrated licenses. It's actually big companies, big contaminants, i.e. The largest environmental pollutants that should be able to have human resources, financial resources, etc. to solve these tasks, given that the preparation and processing of requests for an integrated permit is a very demanding procedure where serious preparation and recruitment of expert personnel are required. With an integrated permit, these operators would show that they have applied all necessary environmental protection measures and these permits would provide comprehensive protection and land and air and water. In the end, let's see who these big operators are. You gave 227 operators classified into certain sectors here. One of these sectors and the first contaminant are energy sectors where you have 30 plants and these are mostly thermal power plants. Then we have the production and processing of metal – 21 plants. There's no need to comment. Mineral industry – 29 plants, and these are mostly plants dealing with the production of ceramics, cements, etc. Waste management: nine plants, livestock farms and pigs. So far, 46 integrated permits have been issued, which is about 20% of the total 227 plants, and you're saying that in the next three years we're going to give about 180 more of these integrated permits, which means 60 permits per year to meet that goal. If we know that since 2004, the law has started to apply, until 2011, to calculate, by now, 46, that means about four to five permits issued annually. So, I don't know, we have, I see, a big problem. So that's a big problem. If we look at your ministry alone, you've explained it nicely here, I would mention it, if you were aware that only the ministry has a big problem, and the first problem of your ministry is the personnel structure. You yourself say that, but not just you, you have problems with the staff, here in the Assembly have many others from the ministry that we have talked to about also having big personnel problems, as well as the Agency for Energy and other agencies that have had problems, and there we should mention that we are training certain people, and we are learning, who should be experienced and when the "transition period" comes they go where they are better paid. Your ministry, however, has one worrying problem, because in the report itself, you say that you have four systematicized jobs in the area of business and the issue of integrated permits, three with high professional equipment, one with medium professional training, and you also say that employees still do not have developed sufficient skills in writing permits and those personnel who are there normally need to have a certain experience that has been gained for years. As far as the European Union itself is concerned, there are three to four permits, one good writer of these kind, an experienced writer of these licenses does three to four such permits a year, which means, when we recalculate with us, you should have at least 17 employees, but 17 experienced authors of these permits, so I don't know just why we came to this number in 2024 that we're going to solve it. The second problem in the ministry is what you saw and I'm glad you wrote here, so that's a weak co-operation between all the authorities. First of all, there is co-operation between other ministries, meaning the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Interior, etc., but also co-operation with local self-government units, which many local self-governments don't have people, there are no employees who issue integrated permits, and then all of this goes to your shoulders, to say, or to you, you also don't have those personnel who would do it, so it goes so slowly. So capacity doesn't exist enough for these things. Let's start with the fact that we can solve all of this, find people like colleges that have helped you with all of this before, but when we look back, we have other bigger problems, and these are the problems with the operators themselves. They are visible, because the requirements for issuing the permits that come to us are mostly incomplete, which you say yourself, and many of these operators do not have yet defined plans that will be implemented in their facilities. Large material, i.e. Financial investment to be invested in environmental protection is also one of the problems and is likely much easier for them to make it go further. Time, as I just said, is an important factor, where the same realization takes a very long time. The lack of used permits for the facilities themselves, the lack of project documentation is also a major problem. The absence of water licences etc., etc. And these operators themselves, who, as I said earlier, are supposed to have certain personnel who would do these tasks, they simply don't have those personnel, or those personnel are constantly walking from one job to another, and that's why we come up with these things, and all of this is, I have to say, worrying about all of us, because we all in this system are losing precisely because environmental protection is what this government and all of us together are trying to do with it. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will, of course, support this law precisely because we think that extending the deadlines to these operators is very important and we think that we need to deal very seriously with these situations, in order to solve certain problems that we have talked about in the next three years, which is environmental protection. Investing in the very protection of the environment, you know, that's investing in your own children. As regards the Biocidal Products Act, it should first be said that this law is adopted in order to comply with existing rules in the field of the management of biocidal products with the relevant regulation of the European Union, which has been amended in the meantime, and now we need to agree on this and the screening of the report in Chapter 27 of the European Commission explicitly states that the Republic of Serbia should continue the process of harmonising the rules on biocidal products, however, this Regulation regulates the internal market of the European Union, so that full harmonisation cannot come with this law. We will with this law, so we will ensure maximum harmonisation so that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. As regards biocidal products themselves, it is important to know that chemicals intended for the destruction and control of undesirable organisms, which also affect man, the environment, animals, etc. They pose a certain risk to everything I've listed. Therefore, strict rules and procedures need to be established in order to reduce these risks, especially since these products have been growing daily use of wide-ranging everyday life. They're divided into 23 types, into four sectors. These are various disinfectants for personal hygiene, for disinfection of water, air and household, various preservatives for food, detergents, softeners, biocidal products that are for the prevention of pests of rats, mice, etc. It is precisely because biocidal products must undergo rigorous controls prior to authorisation for use. Since I don't have any more time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10395	Thank you. I was just about to say that the time for the JS parliamentary group has been spent. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10396	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. I must say one thing first, and that is that we are here as a Parliament of our own corrective factor and the government's controller, there are not many such proactive ministers as Minister Vujovic. When someone takes advantage of their time to prepare the session, then wash out what the MPs do, when they're not in the O.R. and when they hear questions, it's really for every praise. Especially when that question is not addressed to the ministry. We hope that at least they will answer those to whom it is directed. Thank you for that, that proactiveity must always be appreciated. Today in the National Assembly, we are discussing the effects that in real life will have on the adoption of a law on biocidal products, taking into account the high level of protection of human health, animal health, environmental protection, and in particular what is important to us from the PUPS Group "Tri P", the protection of sensitive groups of citizens, including pregnant women and infants, infants and children, the elderly population, as well as workers and the population, if they are much longer exposed to a biocidal product. The primary purpose of biocidal products is to destroy, prevent, prevent the action and make it harmless for any harmful organism that is unwanted or has a harmful effect on humans, their activities, products they use or products on animals or the environment. Biocidal products used in disinfection of different surfaces of water and air in households, in public facilities, but also in the maintenance of hygiene of humans, animals, for the prevention of insects and rodents, for the protection of finished products in the original packaging, for the protection of water in cooling systems, etc. In addition to the positive effects caused by biocidal products, their use may entail a certain risk. One of the basic requirements of the future application of this law is precisely at a time when there is a lot of talk about human health, that the biocidal product must not contain substances that can negatively affect human health. Also, a biocidal product or its residues must not negatively affect the environment, including pollution of surface and groundwater, such as drinking water, land and air. The process of introducing biocidal products on the market implies strictly prescribed conditions, and the products themselves must be approved by the competent authorities prior to use. EU Member States may authorise the use of a biocidal product either individually or jointly at EU level. The importance of the introduction of biocidal products on the market is the fact that the period of examination of the documentation of the introduction of that product type is up to a year. The Biocidal Products Act was adopted in 2009 and is then in line with the 1998 Constitution of Serbia and the European Parliament Directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market. This Directive, meanwhile, replaced the EU Regulation of 2012 concerning the availability of biocidal products and their use on the market. Because of the importance of this law in human health, as well as environmental health, and because we believe that the bill's proposal cited all the most important factors regarding the introduction of biocidal products into the Serbian market, the PUPS parliamentary group -- Tri P -- will support this legislative proposal in the day to vote. As regards the Law on Integrated Prevention and Environmental Control, a list of facilities that are obliged to obtain an integrated environmental authorisation in the energy sector, in the mineral and chemical industries and in the waste management industry has been established. Of the existing 227 facilities in this group, 45 have been granted integrated permits to prescribe the conditions under which they operate and carry out their activities, through which the work of the largest polluters and their compliance with EU rules is monitored. As currently in force, the deadline for issuing integrated licences was 31 December 2020, the need to extend it by the end of 2024, and all in line with the procedure foreseen for negotiations to join the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, all existing economic operators and now have to respect all the prescribed values of the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia in the area of environmental protection. The problem seen in connection with the issue of integrated permits is that many economic operators still do not have defined plans of measures they plan to implement in their facilities to comply with European standards. The job of preparing documentation for the issue of integrated environmental permits is demanding and requires very professional personnel. We are aware of the fact that in this area too, the constant lack of environmental experts is one of the priorities that we need to address in the coming years. In addition to our country, the EU also invests significant resources in training employees in these facilities and therefore we hope that the mentioned industries that operate in the field of environmental protection will have to comply with EU rules will be able to do so by this new deadline. The PUPS parliamentary group -- "Tri P" has always voted for everything that contributes to the better quality of life of Serbian citizens, so we will do with these two legislative proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10397	I thank Vice President Krkobic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10398	At the beginning of my presentation, I will remind you of the words of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who, even in her exposé, said that environmental protection is one of the government's most important priorities and that she is working intensively on planning and investing in this sector, and that topics such as air quality, water protection and land pollution have become inevitable topics in the way of further development of our country. In addition, the fact that we have adopted a large number of laws in the field of environmental protection, as well as an increase in budgets, as you yourself said, for the 2022th year, which allocates funding to almost double the last year's budget. When we talk about the legislative framework and strategic objectives, it is important to say that the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the right to a healthy environment, as one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of every citizen. Today, when economic stability has been achieved, we can focus more on issues of environmental protection and environmental sustainability of our country, as well as the fight against climate change. It's the last time we win the race with time, so that future generations have a healthier environment. That Serbia has taken seriously the problem of protecting the environment and climate change, says in favour of the presence and address of our president, Alexander Vukic, at a UN conference on climate change in Glasgow. The conference also included an interparliamentary meeting on climate change, attended by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic, who, among other things, said that parliament plays a very important role and that each of us MPs should be actively involved and that it contributes. The president of the National Assembly said Serbia is a small country and is not among the biggest polluters, but has long been involved in a global effort to stop the harmful functioning of man in our environment and is ready to adapt to decisions made at the world level, primarily on renewable energy sources and reducing harmful emissions. Our government and resolution ministry in charge of environmental protection are committed to protecting the health of the population and the development of sectoral policies and is on the right track, the way to creating a modern, economically stable and healthy Serbia. And as long as that's the case, the SPS will support such a policy. Evidence that we are going in a good direction is also the European Commission report for 2021, which says Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparation in the area of environment and climate change. In general, Serbia has made remarkable progress during the reporting period, mainly through the adoption of a set of laws, intensive efforts to implement and implement legal regulations in the field of environmental protection, and all of which I would point out, despite a pandemic that slowed down the functioning and many developed countries from Serbia. At global level, environmental policy is implemented through the concept of a green or circular economy. The concept of "Green Economy" aims to ensure further development of human society, protection of human health and social equality, while at the same time reducing environmental risks to the least possible. The environmental defense is multidisciplinary and should represent the obligation of all of us, both the institution and all members of society. Sustainable development is a long-term concept that involves continuous economic growth, ensuring a reduction in poverty, a fairer distribution of wealth, improving health conditions and quality of life, while reducing pollution levels and preventing future ones. Since these postulates are based on the policy of the party I belong to -- the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Socialists are very committed to the topic of sustainable development. The draft law amending the Integrated Prevention and Control Act on environment pollution contains amendments to three important members of the applicable law. The law regulates the types of activities of the facility for which an integrated authorisation is issued, the content required and the documentation to be submitted on request, the conditions established by authorisation, supervision, penalties and other issues of importance for the prevention and control of environmental pollution. Integrated permits provide comprehensive air, water and land protection from pollution, prevention of pollution and application of the best and the environment of the most acceptable technical solutions. They ensure that large pollutants also operate in accordance with high standards of environmental protection and thus prevent harmful effects on it, as well as on human health. In one word, an integrated permit, operators prove that they have applied all the necessary measures and have complied with the necessary standards. The most important changes relating to the amendment of the law concern the existence of a need to extend the period for issuing licences valid by 31 December 2020. The proposed amendments to the applicable law move the deadline until 31 December 2024, bearing in mind that the proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 27 and set a date for 1 January 2025. The extension of the deadline is necessary in order for operators not to bear unnecessary costs and the state administration to provide administrative and professional processing facilities for the issue of integrated licences at both national and local level. One of the reasons for the delay is the pandemic that has stopped and slowed down many social processes, not just with us, but globally. I will stress that many more developed countries, with much better administrative capacity, issue on average three to four permits a year, indicating that the licence application is extremely demanding, complex and professional work. The law stipulates that starting work of the plant and carrying out activities without an integrated authorisation constitutes an economic offence. The environment ministry has made a list of existing facilities that are obliged to obtain an integrated permit. Based on this list in the Republic of Serbia, there are 227 existing facilities of which 28 belong to the public sector and 199 plants to the private sector. Another reason justifying the adoption of this law is the harmonisation with the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Inspectives and other legal acts, as well as the time it is necessary to carry out preparations to strengthen capacity, the education of personnel to be carried out through the implementation of the AIDS project "Green transition and implementation of directives in industrial emissions". All issued licences shall be subject to review no more than twice during the period of validity of the same authorisation. The bill also contains certain weather changes, such as showing consent for new facilities to the relevant document in the field of protection against major chemical accident rather than consent to the assessment of hazards from accidents, and for existing plants, instead of assessing the danger of accidents, a new term - consent to the relevant documentation in accordance with the regulations governing protection against major chemical accident. In order for the current situation to improve and prevent irreparable errors that threaten citizens' health, we must all join together and comply with the rules of conduct, regulations and laws imposed by the current situation. The application of this law will put public interest above the private and contribute to a healthier environment for all citizens, as well as the preservation of ecosystem habitats and species and the maintenance of natural ecological processes that can be threatened by emissions from industrial sources. To preserve and protect our environment, we must be wise, far-sighted, and each of us gives his own personal example and contribution. Of course, we can't expect problems with environmental protection to be solved overnight, because they've been piled up for years. In addition, big investments are needed to solve them, but we are on the right track. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. At the very end, I will mention that as a citizen of Smedereva, I was very pleased to read on the site of the Ministry of Environmental Protection that the Chinese company Hribis Group in Smederev has applied for an integrated authorisation, which is a sign that it cares not only about the salaries of 5,000 employees, but also about the health of the Smederjevac and protects our environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10399	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is 20 minutes. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a whole new law that regulates biocidal products. I wish, for the sake of our citizens, they knew what this was about and what biocidal products were. They are necessary for the control of organisms that are undesirable or have a harmful effect on humans, their activities, products they use or produce on animals or the environment. Their importance grows daily because of their broad application in everyday life. They are used, among other things, for disinfection of surfaces, equipment, furniture, water and air, in households, in public health facilities and other public facilities, in industrial facilities, in the food industry, in farms. In addition, they are used to maintain personal hygiene and to disinfect healthy human skin, as well as to maintain animal hygiene. Also, biocidal products are used to contain insects and rodents, to protect finished products, while original packagings are used to protect wood, leather, rubber, paper, textiles, to protect water or other liquids in cooling and process systems. So this is about protecting the health of people, animals or certain goods from various pests, rats and the like. One of the problems that biocidal products have is that pests and rats often become resistant to biocidal products themselves. To translate into Serbian citizens, they become resistant to them, i.e. the biocidal product cannot achieve any fact towards them. Unfortunately, we have a situation where people are involved and they become resilient, or resilient, to say the law. The former regime and representatives of the former regime are resistant to legal regulations that regulate abuse of power. They also became resilient to explain how they earned 600m euros in four years of government. To make things worse, they become resistant to democracy. As politicians, it's really not normal. But what does it mean to be resistant to democracy? This means that you have given up coming to power in the elections, you are already expecting someone to bring you to power, whether violently, by setting the Serbian Parliament on fire, to conquer state institutions, to engage with motor saws on public service. These are the forms of coming to power without democracy. Another way is for another country, some other force to lead you to power by military means as well, or by some pressure, by imposing sanctions, etc. However, when sanctions are imposed or armed aggression is committed to a country that suffers the most? Well, are the citizens of that country the most expensive? When sanctions are citizens, and first they are the poorest, they are the first to strike, and later those who have some more money. Those with 600m euros, they have no consequences of any sanctions, as with 600m euros they can provide themselves with a pretty comfortable life, whether there are biocidal products or not. Now, as you evolve, then you start to be brought to power by some, not just other countries, but some regional organisations, such as the EU. Well, just remember how Dragan Gilas and the former regime kneeled before the MEPs, as they asked for Alexander Vukic to be humiliated, as they asked to be declared dictator, that there is no rule of law here, there is no democracy, there is dictatorship, etc. They were struggling for a while with these European MPs. They saw it as a crazy house when it came to the former regime, gave up on it, and, let me say, something tempered that picture of Serbia. They told Gilas that he could only come to power with elections, that electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia are acceptable to European standards and that he would have to run for president of the Republic, whether for mayor, whether to carry or lead his list of candidates for MPs. Now, in its resistance, that is, the resistance of Dragan Gilas continues. Since he realized that there are not enough people here with motor saws who are going to invade state institutions and public service to, whether or not he's doing motor saws to the head of the hairdresser, because he realized he can't do the EU anymore, he doesn't want to help him, he's gone to America. He went to America to seek support, to be punished or bombed again by someone who brought him here to power. Talking to the U.S. Secretary of State or someone else, I really don't mind and that's desirable. Whoever goes has to talk, whoever gets the chance. But can you find at least one MP from the time of 2008 to 2012, the MP of the opposition then, to find that he said somewhere outside Serbia that Dragan Djilas is a thief, that Boris Tadic is a dictator, that Vuk Jeremic is a traitor? Can you find someone like that? I'm telling you not to. The opposition, to which the Serbian Progressive Party belonged, did not say ugly things about its state officials, however true these ugly things were. It's true that Dragan Gilas was the most common thief and that he wanted to be again. It is true that Tadic fled Serbia when Kosovo declared independence. It is true that Vuk Jeremic is a traitor who has set a border between Serbs and Serbs, those living in the interior of Serbia and those Serbs living in the territory of our autonomous province. But none of the MPs thought to say outside Serbia that they were traitors. What did Gilas do a few days ago? Watch out for one of the reactions when it is said here by representatives of the current government – Serbia has a much stronger cocus in Congress and Senate than Gilas, as do Albanian lobbyists, Kosovo lobbyists, Bosniak lobbyists. They ask the question, Gilas, through his portals and the media, asks the next question – and where will Serbia pay from? Are we going to pay out of the budget, i.e. The money of all Serbian citizens, or are we going to pay from some black funds? Look, that bastard's not ashamed to ask that kind of question. So one of the biggest thieves in Serbia is asking if we are going to spend money on Serbian citizens to protect the state interest. Watch out, thief is the most common pie. The most common thief. I just need to say something. When you're fighting for something right, you don't need money. When you fight, say, and say you respect the territorial integrity of China, when you fight and say that you respect the territorial integrity of Spain, when you say you respect the territorial integrity of Cyprus, and that I don't count further, you don't need money for that. But when you say that Kosovo is an independent state, to the detriment of its two-world war ally, then it's paid, then it costs, because, well, someone has some moral principles that they're going to give up for money. And that's the story that's in the U.S. Congress. But let's ask the question who's paying for it. Salary, mostly Albanian mafia. If the Albanian mafia pays for it, what kind of money is that? From drug trafficking, weapons, white slavery. Now imagine Dragan Gilas, going with people like that to talk, to write a letter to the President of the United States. Is that normal? Well, it's only a man who doesn't love his country, who doesn't love his people and a man who loves money more than anything else. We can make laws on biocidal products whatever we want, biocidals for Dragan Gilas are just elections, but choices he can't go out on, because he's gonna keep begging someone. Now I don't know, it'll go the same way with the United States as it did with the EU. I don't know who he's gonna ask next for help to bring him to power. Only to find aliens. But be assured, they will not bring him in either, neither do they in their society, such people are all avoiding and neither will the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10401	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10402	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with an associate, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in recent days, we have all heard the main message of the Conference's climatic change conference in Glasgow, and it reads, "There is little time left for saving the planet." So in the context of today’s debate, I would refer to the very question of mankind’s life. Today, the whole world has agreed that climate change has already clearly transformed planet Earth, and that we humans, as a modern civilization, have contributed to this process to the greatest extent and that we are therefore responsible for the further fate of life on Earth. Therefore, we will have to share our responsibility and contribute to its preservation. Our concrete contribution to this goal today will be to pass laws on amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. And science and politics have agreed that the only integrated approach we can put under control is all the development processes that directly affect environmental pollution. In this respect, radical and systemic changes are necessary in approach to the environment itself and in these changes we must actively and consciously participate in Serbia, and if we do not fall into major world pollutants. It is our obligation arising from the United Nations documents, but also from the European agenda. These amendments will provide conditions for more efficient functioning and organisation of integrated permits in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to carry out those activities that are potential or real environmental pollutants. Integrated permits are issued for plants and activities that can have a negative impact on human health, the environment and material goods, and they should precisely provide comprehensive protection of water, air and land from pollution, then prevention of pollution and the application of the best and the environment most acceptable technical solutions. This approach is no doubt the need for the time in which we live, because man, in order to create as much material wealth as possible, at one point ruled nature, became alienated and completely forgotten that his life was conditioned by the life of nature. All the past century and this modern age have been characterized by human activities that are precisely in the function of technological progress and increasing economic growth and development, which, on the other hand, significantly contributes to the degradation of the environment, as well as the lack of healthy and clean air. Therefore, environmental protection is a major and urgent problem that requires a global solution in the coming period. In the area of environmental protection, Serbia also faces problems such as excessively polluted air in large cities, which is 14 seats in Serbia according to statistics. There are also problems of water pollution and missing treatment systems, then land pollution and insufficiently well-recyclable waste. It is clear that so far the development of by-products and various technological processes in the form of various pollutions is returning to our ecosystem, which is no longer acceptable standards from the aspect of the conservation of the environment in which we live, including the very survival of humanity. The enormous increase in economic activity worldwide has one of the most dangerous side effects, which is a drastic increase in CO2 emissions, which has catastrophic environmental consequences. According to the latest data, 60 billion tonnes of CO2, carbon dioxide, and only Serbia emits 60 million tonnes of CO2 per year in the atmosphere. It's not much from the world's point of view, but as far as we're concerned, it's not very small at all, and that's why we have to work seriously to reduce the emissions of harmful gases. After all, the air is a unique envelope around our planet, and wherever there is pollution, there is no need to underestimate this problem. The main causes of air pollution in Serbia are outdated thermal power plants, millions of private wood and coal deposits, waste and plastic burning, as well as older cars. When we talk about coal-using thermal power plants, the data shows that there are 20 in Europe, 18 in the Balkans, and eight in Serbia. Since our country has other energy potentials in terms of solar energy, biomass, wind parks, I am almost certain that in the near future we will use all of this and reduce the use of coal, i.e. Turn to modern technologies of use, so that we first have clean air and a healthy environment. I would add that not only are the thermal power plants and the use of carbon pollutants, so I would also mention plastic waste pollutants, which is, you'll agree, the global scale crisis, and therefore the world's largest polluters and multinational companies are on the list. All of us, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are working to preserve and protect the environment, and not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also the resolution ministry has shown political will and strength to start solving this major environmental problem. Analysis conducted with the United Nations has shown that there are seven more of these locations in Serbia. The resolution of locals who are also global problems is one of the tasks that we have until 2030 to complete, i.e. to take care of our yard first, so that all of this doesn't cost us much more. Environmental protection requires, above all, the conscious and responsible individuals, with a sense of perception of the threat, which should result in adequate environmental behaviour as an element of consciousness. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the environmental awareness which implies the harmonisation of individual and generalised behaviour, in line with the active and current environmental situation. If it doesn't come to light, humanity is doomed to disappear, and the ecological consciousness of mankind is the ecological consciousness of every single individual. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore support both this and all other drafts of the law on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10403	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10404	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished minister with co-worker, co-workers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the protection of human health as the number one priority established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Human health protection is priority number one, and through water protection, through land protection, through air protection and how we contribute to human health. Both of these laws today, which are on the agenda and how they affect the improvement of the quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to improving air, land and water, but also about the placing of biocidal products on the market, that is, when it comes to increasing the safety of citizens, raising citizens' awareness when a biocidal product is found on the market. The Biocidal Products Act, it is systemically new, has clear steps, clear procedures, in the process of issuing authorisations for the placing on the market of biocidal products, in order to avoid risks to human life and health. This law lays down the powers of control over the implementation of this law, as well as the criminal liability of all those who violate that law. I must say that environmental protection is on the very high list of priorities of this government. This shows that the Republic of Serbia has made political progress, that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic and mature society and that environmental protection is also on the agenda, i.e. ecosystems. That environmental protection is high on the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, also says that for the first time in the international financial market, green bonds amounting to one billion euros with a seven-year maturity and a minimum interest rate of one per cent were issued. All these funds will just be used to improve the environment and improve the environment. Fifty years has not been invested in the water supply or the sewerage network, 50 years has not been invested in boiler rooms, 50 years have been collected and stored, no one has taken care of them. What I must point out, dear Mrs Vujovic, is that immediately after the takeover of the competent ministry you went to the field, went to the scene, went where the excesses were happening, but not only in the term of office of this government and your leadership of the resolution ministry, these excesses were decades more and I'm going to say two excesses. One eccess is a swimming garbage dump on Lake Potpecha. There were thousands of cubes of waste which, of course, the unconscious citizens threw, probably in the nearest stream, and then from the stream came to the river, from the river to the Potpeč Lake. Thousands of cubes of that waste during a very short period of time have been cleaned, not only cleaned and deposited in the Deep Užice regional dump, but you have continued to work further, so that today the chains have been placed, just to collect that waste, and that the municipal services of the Municipality of Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš can collect that waste in time so that it will never happen again. The second problem you've solved, and it's also a decades-long problem, it's a garbage dump near Prepolje. Stanjevine's dump was actually one real environmental bomb. Otherwise, the dump is on the main road from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic. It's a road leading to the Millesev monastery. It's a path that leads to the white angel's fresco, which is protected by UNESCO. This mockery, thanks to your engagement and your everyday work on the ground for a very short period of time not only has been removed, but it is completely rehabilitated and re-cultivated, grass has been planted, Thuts are planted, a support wall has been built, because the Lim River flows beneath the dump. What I must point out is that the temporary deposit of Deep Stream in Druglici near Priboj is now used for the disposal of solid waste, but it is only a temporary solution, because thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to your ministry, but also to local self-governments, Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoš, the transfer of Banjica stations to Nova Varosha will later become one of eight regional recycling centres. I must point out that the Ministry, or the Government of the Regional Depository, is deep in Užica for the expansion of parts of the dump so that waste can be delayed adequately, but in order to protect itself from the rink, it also invested 96 million dinars. These are all indicators that actually speak of this government taking adequate care of all areas, all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, not only in Belgrade, but also in areas where yellow tycoons mainly came to throw dust into the people's eyes, to lie to them, and after that there was nothing. Today, unlike that time, in these municipalities of southwestern Serbia, it is and is being built. I have to say that in Priboj, one of the two in Serbia, on wood-cutting, on biomass, the apartments are now warmer both by day and night, the citizens are no longer frozen, but I also have to point out that President Aleksandar Vukic, on a tour of Priboj, Prepolje, Novi Varoshi in May said that from Zlatibor will be allowed to gasify and be carried out pipes to Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoshi, that the gas will come, and by the arrival of gas, of course, all this means cleaner air, but also the arrival of new investors and the return of life to these border municipalities. Also, what I would like to point out is that those who were in power by 2012, led by tycoon Dragan Gilas, when it comes to ecology, all they did was run a campaign called "Let's Clean Serbia", but instead of cleaning Serbia, they actually cleaned up the budget. It is estimated that through the campaign alone, they cleaned Serbia's 25m-euro budget. Of course, for the yellow tycoon companies led by tycoon, Dragan Gilas, we know this well, because everything he did worked for his own pockets and his accounts on various white-world destinations, nothing in favour of and on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens, you can imagine how much you need nothing to be so that as a tycoon, Dragan Gilas, you go abroad to the United States, you seek sanctions for your people and your country, you criminalize your people, especially people in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The people of AP Kosovo and Metohija who defend their home threshold, who live on their home threshold for centuries, who live in the heart of Europe, but the people who the whole world needs to know are threatened with basic human rights, the right to live, the right to move, the right to freedom of speech. Tikun Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, went to the United States to muddle their own people and the state. That's embarrassing. Dear citizens, do you know how much human bottom, moral bottom and human nothingness you need to be, so that you attack children, children of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, a child who is only three years old, a little Vulcan and who seems to be guilty just because his father is Alexander Vukic. Dear citizens, do you know that tycoon Dragan Gilas and his authority have set a border between Serbs and Serbs on Jarinj and Brnjak? Dear citizens, do you know that even during the time of the authorities of the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic has gone abroad, it seems to me to me in Romania, while there was a declaration of what was called an independent Kosovo? Dear citizens, do you know that the yellow tycoon company is working against the Serbian people, the Serbian state, together with Albanian lobbyists, who shoot at the back of Serb young men who kill children, bathing on Serbian rivers, are in league with them. Dragan Gilas, a tycoon, was rich and gained 617m euros during the time of power and of course his only interest was his own pockets, no interest of the people and no interest of the citizens, because in his time the people and citizens were poor. He was rich. In his day, Serbian citizens were hungry, and he flew through various white world destinations and filled his own pockets. But Dragan Gilas forgets that money can't buy everything, money can't buy honor, face and dignity. Dragan Gilas forgets that the Supreme Judge of all political parties, the people of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not foreign embassies, Serbian citizens in free democratic elections are choosing their own free will to lead them into a better future, a better future for their children, a better future for Serbia as a whole. This is Alexander Vukic's policy, SNS policy, peace, security and prosperity, and surely citizens in the upcoming elections will give their vote to Alexander Vukic, because this policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10405	Just to point out that there's still time for the 12-and-a-half-minute parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10406	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, fellow Members of Parliament, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honorary Minister Vujovic, I am pleased to see you again here and you are often a guest of this house, which means that you are working on laws and that's good. That's a good path and a good direction. I want to take advantage of it in my own personal name, and today many have mentioned it here, to offer my condolences to the Zukorlic family and to all Bosniaks of Serbia. I think we've lost one significant colleague here, our MP, and we'll surely all remember him for a long, long time. Today, two important laws are on the agenda in the field of health protection, population and environmental protection, but I, as well as a number of fellow MPs, would therefore refer to the world's largest climate change event on our planet. The United Nations Climate Change Conference was held in Glasgow these days. It's enough that we get news from this important gathering that everyone's worried about the effects of climate change caused by the emissions of harmful gases on our planet, above all, the Co2, which has a global warming effect. Personally, I think, because they were very concerned that they should show this in the work and invest in all the countries in the world, especially the part of the Western Balkans and help solve the environmental problems that we all have together. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases released in the atmosphere from various human activities cause global warming. All this has an impact with increasingly serious and less-expected effects on life ecosystems and biodiversity, especially human health, economy and economy. Climate change has been happening globally, and the last decade has been the hottest in 150 years. In Serbia, too, an increase in extreme weather opportunities and their devastating effects has been observed. After 2000, 10 warmest years have been recorded since meteorological measurements began in Serbia. The contribution to the global push to reduce the emissions of harmful gases was given by President Aleksandar Vukic and Parliament Speaker Ivica Dacic at the Glasgow summit by President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic. I think it is very important that Serbia, which is viewed by world parameters, is not a major contaminant that it contributes to the achievement of the global goal, which is to prevent further global warming in the long term, i.e. the rise of temperatures on our planet by more than 1.5 Celsius, which is projected 2 for Serbia. Otherwise, a man will destroy life on earth with his own intent and irresponsibility. As reported in Glasgow, a drastic reduction in toxic gas emissions is needed by reducing the use of coal as energy, as it is the largest emitter of harmful gases. There was talk of the planet being the largest polluters of the energy sector, industry and traffic, as a result of human uncontrollable activity on nature, and all because of wealth. The second course of action to reduce pollution is to sniff and I think this is a very significant segment. We'll remind ourselves that the forests are the lungs of the planet and that they disappear at a dizzy rate. The first reason is the uncontrollable cutting of the forest. Another reason is the fires that, due to climate change, which are enormously high temperatures in recent years, are destroying forests around the planet. Forests these years up and down where they've never burned, in Siberia, Sweden, Alaska, Canada, but unfortunately in our Serbia. And here's some discouraging data. Since when people began to cut the woods intensively, 45% of the trees have been shot down. It shows one study in 2015, about 17% of the Amazon forest has been destroyed over the last 50 years. In particular, since 1990, every hour in the world, the area of a forest of 800 football pitches disappears, and in the period from 1990 to 2016, the total forest area of 1.3 million square kilometers has been lost, which corresponds to the area of Chile. The data is worrying. Because forests represent a natural storage of carbon dioxide, and when they are cut or burned in fires, most of the carbon dioxide that is released into the atmosphere, which further accelerates the process of climate change and global warming. So time doesn't have much, and we can bring the planet back to its original state, but we have to keep what's left, to mitigate the consequences, and every single one of us and every single country for itself and all together as humanity, we have to do it. These aren't the words of the floscule. They're our mission. Looking back on past times, I can say that Serbia has worked hard towards easing climate change and in the area of shaming. Since the 1960s, through large-scale shaming to protect against floods and erosions, also in order to reforestation the naked and to protect the erosion and accumulation of gases with the greenhouse effect has made a major contribution to solving this problem. Forest and water organizations at the time were doing a number of anti-erosion hammocks in almost all parts of Serbia, and the peak of these concerns were adolescence on large surfaces, youth work actions on the Cave, the Ibari Klisur, the Deliblat Cave, Vlasini, where numerous nakeds were turned into real forests. The period since 1974, followed by youth work actions from 1978 to 1988, was the best period for increasing noise in Serbia, where noise has increased from 19% to 27%. The present and future generations will not forget these magnificent ventures, because the forest is the largest absorption of greenhouse gases. I would therefore like to commend the multi-year activity of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which defines by budget certain funds to local self-governments for the reforestation of unprocessed surfaces. Maybe you'll say it's my nostalgia as a stockholder at those times when we've been sniffing thousands of acres in one year. I now propose to return some volunteer forms of work, which would not only mean shaming, but also the form of socialization of young people and learning of real social values, under clear national coordination and strategy, through resolution ministries, local self-government and a particularly public enterprise that is doing so today, "Serbiasum". Preventing dangerous climate change is a key priority of our activities and working together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We need to find a way to encourage the economy to work by respecting the principles of green and circular, or circular economies. Also, I must say that the current and past efforts of our government and Serbia's companies in the construction of the pipeline, especially Serbia's companies, and the capacity to produce renewable energy are heading towards climate change mitigation. In fact, environmental protection isn't just one sector, it's all sectors that make up the whole life of our society and all of humanity. The necessary condition for a productive approach to environmental protection is, above all, raising the awareness of Serbian citizens of the importance of the healthy environment and the uncertain future of the planet if we continue to act irresponsiblely. The truth is that environmental protection is not cheap, but there is a lower and higher price. A lower price is prevention, a lower price is shaming, one for each citizen of Serbia to begin with. At the very end, I want to read the 1914 student oath that says: “I swear I will not destroy the trees and tread the water and trample the grass, I promise not to spit on the floor in the school and in the house and on the road, I will give my word that I will not spoil the fences, I will never cause any damage to the buildings, I will never throw paper, no garbage on the street, I will always be polite, I will protect the birds, I will defend other people’s property, as I would like others to defend mine. I promise to be an honest and honest citizen." It's the student oath of this state from 1914. We heard here this morning at the beginning of the session and that someone wanted to attribute genocide to us, but I really have to say at the end right now that the people who have inherited this student's oath since 1914 are gone, nor can they have a genetic predisposition to be genocide. I wish you successful work to continue the session and the SPS MPs will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10407	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10408	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Dr Orlic, a respected minister with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will talk about the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, which regulates the types of activities and facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued. Power to issue authorisations and obligations of the competent authority, conditions for issuing an integrated authorisation, the process of issuing integrated licences, supervision, penalties and other issues of importance for preventing, controlling environmental pollution. The objective of amending the law is to extend the time limit to the competent authority for resolution under the submitted requirements for the issue of integrated licences, including the facility for which it will be negotiated in the transition period with the EU. The Act on the Protection of the Environment in Article 58 provides that the operator of the facility, i.e. a complex in which activities are carried out in which one or more hazardous substances are present or may be present, and that it is obliged to provide information, or to build an accident prevention policy or an accident prevention plan and an accident protection plan, depending on the amount of hazardous substances and to take measures to prevent chemical and to limit the impact on human health and the environment. The amendment of the law provides legislative, administrative, administrative-legal, organisational-institutional and other conditions for more effective functioning of the issue of integrated permits in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This responsible policy, conducted by the Serbian government with the competent ministry, led by the political vision of Aleksandr Vukic, protects not only the environment and the health of Serbian citizens, but also improves all segments of social life. Responsibility, work, diligence and commitment are the main postulates advocated by SNS and Aleksandar Vucic, all in order to preserve and improve the lives of Serbian citizens. Unlike the yellow tycoon company, led by the famous machine brain of Dragan Gilas and his hohstapplers, the insidious Marinic of Morovic, Vuko Ho Jeremic, as well as Dragan Šolak, who were lost in their hatred and unsurpassed in their lies and thieving, cross all borders whenever we thought they could not go further in their madness, they also showed the opposite on their knees to Albanian lobbyists and congressmen in Washington, where they sought sanctions instead of helping Serbian citizens. Can the uglier and the madr be trampled upon by their own people? Not only have they declared him genocide, which they have robbed and devastated at all levels while they were in power, they now want to completely document him with their political programme, as if the disastrous former regime had not already inflicted enough evil and suffering on Serbian citizens. The evil intentions are carried out by the insolent and powerless only in order to protect their robbed millions and large bills by the white world banks, out of fear that no one is asking them about the billions that have been taken from Telekom, and to continue to rob Serbia's state and citizens, because they are still masters, as well as various movements we drown Belgrade, financed by money from abroad. But while Alexander Vukic, who, unlike this horde of breakthroughs, has no foreign account, will not go after them. That's why they're having blood attacks on their children, and they're calling for violence, blood, and madness, just to get their hands on the state's manger again. While they are fighting for their pockets, Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for the future of Serbian citizens and does not deviate from his firm stances and beliefs, which is Serbia's people in first place. While Aleksandar Vukic is head of Serbia, no foreign mercenaries, nor foreign ambassadors will edit Serbia's policy. Serbia's future will be decided by the people, because the people of Serbia know, the people of Serbia see, who is the impenetrable misery of all the disasters of the former Tikun enterprise, which is Aleksandar Vukic of the SNS. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10409	Thank you. The word is Anna Belloica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10410	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, cannot change what happened in the past, but you can always influence everything that is yet to happen, and that is a foreign currency that is managed by every serious political option, a political party that is ready for improvement, prosperity and the fight for a better standard of living for all citizens of a country. Serbia has long ceased to be a country that has suffered lower historical defeats, a country that is seeking excuses for its own failures, and we have become those who believe in ourselves, in our own strengths and in our own successes, and it seems to me that this has indeed brought fruit, since almost daily we can also discuss in this high home the results that we have achieved in all fields, regardless of whether they are characterized through certain agreements, declarations or laws, such as that, let's say, even today. In my presentation today, I will focus on the Law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, since it is one of the key laws because it deals with what is, in fact, the backbone of our life, and it is certainly a healthy environment. This law regulates the types of activities and facilities for which integrated licences are issued, the authority to issue licences, the conditions and the procedure, the supervision, the penalties and other issues relevant to the prevention, as well as the control of environmental pollution. The objective of amending this law is certainly to extend the deadline for competent authorities, so that they can meet all the requirements submitted, and on the other hand, the aim is to ensure compliance with the Environmental Protection Act. A healthy environment has no alternative, you'll agree with me, and that's what affects every single individual, every man on planet Earth. The negative effects and risks that come from the polluted environment are so widespread that we can never completely eliminate them, but we always have to work to minimise them, or reduce them to the least possible extent. It seems to me that the Ministry has taken this problem seriously and responsibly, and we can best see it based on numerous results, numerous activities that are being implemented almost daily throughout our country's territory. I will take the opportunity to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Mrs. Irena Vujovic, just a few days ago, visited Nis, more specifically by EI Nis, where 450 tonnes of historical waste that has been buried in the last 20 years by those companies that have been subject to privatisation or bankruptcy will be removed. What I would particularly like to point out is that for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, an air protection programme with an action plan for the period from 2022 to 2030 is being developed, where a certain set of measures is precisely defined to be taken to ensure a reduction of air pollution, i.e. to improve the quality of air in our country. In addition, the fact that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has provided funds for the replacement of individual lodges, also for the replacement of certain boilers used by energy, let me say, those dirty energies, environmentally unacceptable in many cities in the Republic of Serbia, such as Novi Pazar, Valjev, Kosjerić and many other cities in our country's territory. As an example of good practice, I will certainly point out the town of Kragujevac, where besides the replacement of the boiler in the city's heat, there has been a recovery of the ash dump, in particular 40,000 tonnes of ash that will be recycled and turned into building material, and in this way we will succeed in the town of Kragujevac to solve a decades-old problem, which is particularly expressed during the winter months. All of this is an indicator, not only of a better standard of living for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but of better and greater concern for the lives and health of all of our citizens. In addition to this, many of the results we have achieved in all fields, and yet we have managed to achieve economic stability, to preserve economic activity, even during the coronary pandemic of the virus, we have managed to reduce the level of public debt from 60% to 58.2%. We also managed to reduce the level of the fiscal deficit from 6.9 as originally planned, to 4.9% and all of these results, all of these projects that we've realized leave in an amannet of future generations, our children, generations to come. But it seems to me that of all the types of pollution are the most dangerous ones that pollute the socio-political scene in the Republic of Serbia. Those people who are fighting the interests of their own people, against the interests of their own country by placing lies, misinformation, by spreading panic and fear among citizens of the Republic of Serbia have not diminished any positive step taken by the SNS, which could threaten them with a dirty political struggle for supremacy. Why do I say dirty? Because, honourable MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do not choose funds in this fight. In this struggle, we use something that is sacred to all of us, and it is certainly children and family. We are witnessing that the children of Alexander Vukic have been going through the media fungi and mud for days, that they are being targeted at the forehead, that they are being issued any warrants to children who are essentially nothing to blame, except that father Aleksandar Vukic, a man who, with certainty, has reformed our country, who has placed Serbia on sound grounds, on healthy legs and who has shown that it is the people who in the Republic of Serbia who exclusively appreciate and value someone's work, effort and efforts. You have those quasi-fighters for ecology, the quasi-fighters for justice that have been organising ecological protests all over Belgrade for days, they're fighting the thermopower plants, because they're polluting the environment, they're polluting the air, and then when the energy crisis comes, they're still pushing for the maintenance of these same thermopower plants, because energy security and stability are important to us. There we can see in part these double standards, the double arches they use to make cheap political points. Where is your dignity, gentlemen, and where are your principles, if you are willing to go in the white world and spit on your own people, your own country, to spit on Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian sacred land for which we have shed blood? Where were you, gentlemen, when those people you call criminals today, when they burned down their houses, when they defiled their graves, when they killed innocent children? In that name, if you would allow me to read one quote and dedicate it to all those people who are fighting the interests of their own state, who say that in Kosovo and Metohija, which is the site of Serbian culture, Serbian traditions and history, there is nothing to do, so I would ask you for a minute's attention: "Imagine that someone is breaking into your house right now, grabs you and pushes you out. You're standing in the yard a little bit, you're hanging up, and then you get down your shoulders and you say, "Well, I've got nothing left to look for here." Imagine coming to your father's grave and finding a broken monument, you rebelling a little bit, and then you say, "Well, I don't have a father anymore." The reality you closed your eyes to back then was what kept you alive. Where they say there is nothing left, more children are born than in all cities in the Republic of Serbia. Where they say there is nothing left for Serbs almost every month to rebuild a house, and in front of the house you will see young people, children, gardens, orchards and cattle. Where they say there's nothing left, prayers rise that save us all and protect us. When they tell you everything's lost, burned, there's nothing there, don't believe them. Cosmet's full, only they're empty. And they should learn something from that Serb monument on Zeitinlik, falling from the grain, from hunger and thirst, scattered on the cross, to the bare height, but a firm faith in victory never, not for a moment, lost. "In that name, we, under the leadership of Alexander Vukic, will continue to fight for the preservation of Serbian interests at KIM, to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, to fight for peace, stability, a better, a brighter future for all our children. At the very end, I would add that Serbia is not a handful of rice, that scratch is every crow brought by the wind. And we can't choose the state, the time or the people we're born in, but what we can always choose in life is whether we're human or nonhuman. And we chose not to be remembered for how long we will be in power, but what it is that will remain behind us, what it is that will remain for generations to come. We may not leave our children some great money and wealth, but we will leave them with something far more valuable than all that, which is pure face, dignity, solid character, a great heart and a great soul, in which only one will remain -- that we lived for one of our only countries, that we lived for our Serbia. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10411	The word is Vesna Krishanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10412	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Minister with the Co-operation, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution is only one in a series of legal obligations that certain companies must agree on in the field of environmental protection, in order to meet some of the conditions for joining the EU. First of all, I welcome the amendment of the law in the part in which the deadline for issuing integrated permits for existing facilities is extended until 31 December 2024, because I think it is more than realistic, given the situation on the ground, which is that of the 227 plants that are detected as so-called. An IPPC facility for only 46 has been issued an integrated authorisation. I also believe that the state should provide full support in the operational sense of these facilities. This process is certainly the same challenge for companies and for the ministry and for the provincial secretariat, which is also responsible for issuing integrated permits, so that only with mutual understanding, effort, work, tenacity and commitment of all parties can we achieve the desired goal. The procurement of documents for the issue of an integrated permit is a very complex and long-term process and often requires not so little cost, starting with the need to hire companies involved in the production and extensive documentation, which precedes obtaining various documents from the competent authorities. One example of the complexity of this process is getting a water license from the competent authority. Getting the same precedence of the construction of the groundwater reserves that are re-engaged by the firm for the relevant certifications. The measured values of polluting substances to waste water shown in the certificated laboratory report must also be below the limit values set by the regulation in order to obtain consent, i.e. a positive opinion by the competent water company. If measured values are above the limit values, this implies the installation of wastewater treatment devices or reconstruction of existing ones, which requires the investment of large funds that many businesses do not have the ability to isolate. All of this precedes obtaining a water licence which is only one of the documents attached to the request for an integrated authorisation. Types of plant activities which are subject to the issue of an integrated authorisation and which may have a negative impact on human health, environment or material goods, are prescribed by an appropriate regulation, and only some of these are those dealing with energy production, metal processing, waste management, mineral industry, chemical industry, etc. Unless an integrated authorisation has been issued just before, until the time limit set in the amendments to the law, their further functioning shall be questioned. The state certainly won't allow it, and that is why we need to team up with the problem and improve co-operation at all levels. I hope that there are ways for both public enterprises, which are significantly less and private, to be able to give financial resources to improve the system that achieves better environmental protection, when it comes to wastewater and released polluting matter into the air. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is also required to do extensive work when it comes to harmonising with European legislation and implementing it in practice. We have made sure for the past year that Minister Vujovic is ready to meet all the challenges, as well as her associates, and I have no doubt that she will have the patience and will to respond to all the concerns that are being faced by employees in the companies that are obliged, both to this and to many other laws in the field of environmental protection. The municipality of Novi Knezevac, from which I come, is ready to contribute to improving the state of the environment, and this proves by closing the local dump in early 2020. Since then, complete waste has been collected by a public utility company regarding the regional dump in Subotica. We are about to resuscitate the local dump, as well as end the sewerage network and build wastewater purifiers, but about all this, as well as many other things, we could talk to the minister if she would show us the honor of visiting our municipality. The state daily shows the dedicated work of all the ministries headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and our President Aleksandar Vukic to fight to improve the conditions of life of Serbian citizens at all levels and to fight first and foremost for justice and truth, all with the aim of strengthening our Serbia. That is why I trust the sound and rational judgment of Serbian citizens when it comes to whom they will give their trust in the upcoming elections and that our Serbia will remain on this path, the path of unconstitutional progress. In addition, the announced 5.5% pension increase, a 7% increase in public sector wages, while in the military, health and social services it will be 8%, as well as 486 billion dinars for capital investments in 2022. With this in mind, and what I am particularly pleased with, is the recent statements by President Alexander Vukic that it is important to further strengthen the entire northern Banat. That also confirms Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's visit to the North-Branabic Management District in late October. On this occasion, I would like to thank all citizens of the municipality of New Prince who provide unselfish support for the politics of Alexander Vukic for his patience and faith in the fact that our municipality will become a better place to live. Long live our Serbia! Long live my New Prince! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10413	Thank you. The word is Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10414	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman and Vice President Orlic. The Honorable Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is present today two draft laws, and I will look back at the Bill on Biocidal Products in my presentation today. Namely, biocidal products are chemicals used to suppress organisms that can cause damage to materials and products, but are also harmful to human and animal health. Biocidal products are used in everyday life, and in the time of the coronal virus, this is enhanced since they are used for skin disinfection, but also various surfaces, equipment, air. Also, these products are also used for disinfection of drinking water, for animal hygiene, insect suppression, rodents, wood protection, skin, textiles, and are classified as 23 species according to the harmful organism they operate on. Their use is actually based on the fact that active substances in the biocidal product destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent or otherwise control harmful organisms. However, those products also pose a risk to human health, animal health and the environment, and therefore strict rules and procedures for the assessment of biocidal products are necessary to determine whether this product is safe to use when used in advance. The relevant law governing biocidal products was adopted in 2009 and in 2012 the European Commission adopted Regulation 528/2012 on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. The regulation was adopted to better harmonise the rules for the placing on the market and use of biocidal products on the EU single market, but it also introduced some new instruments and requirements that allow for better management of biocidal products. This bill was drawn up to comply with the requirements of our products that regulate biocidal products with the requirements of the Regulation, respecting the European Commission's position on Chapter 27 that the Republic of Serbia should comply with the Regulation on biocidal products. The Regulation aims to ensure a high level of protection of human health and animal health and the environment through a two-stage decision-making process. The first degree implies the assessment and approval of an active substance for use in a biocidal product of a particular species, while the second step or degree represents the assessment and approval of a biocidal product in the intended way of use. The main objective of the adoption of the Biocidal Products Act is to improve the system of management of biocidal products by prescribing new clear and transparent coatings and procedures ensuring that biocidal products which do not have unacceptable adverse effects on human health, animal health and unacceptable environmental effects are available on the market of the Republic of Serbia. The key paper introduced by this law is to regulate the placing on the market of products treated with a biocidal product and to establish the obligation for the person who places the treated product on the market to mark in particular. This raises awareness, but also informs consumers about the treated product in order to choose whether this product will be bought, used or not. Certainly, the basic objective achieved by the adoption of a new law is to protect human health, animal health and the environment, but also to maintain and promote the competitiveness of our industry and prepare for business within the single EU market after accession, as well as to improve transparency of the decision-making process. Also, the adoption of this law confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to improve the system of management of biocidal products, in line with EU policies and regulations, which is important for progress in accession negotiations. Although many parties, movements, groups today talk about protecting the environment and thus trying to collect political points, the fact is that since the arrival of SNS in power this segment has started to deal seriously and to invest significant funds. This government has put one of three key priorities in protecting and improving the environment, and we see it all over Serbia, and so in Pirot, where I come from with the realization of numerous projects. There are decades of problems being solved today. One of these is, for example, historical waste that has mostly been created in two thousand years in factories that have been the subject of privatisation or bankruptcy. If waste and packaging were packaged over time, and this is mostly about dangerous waste affecting water, air and land pollution and the state has decided to take care of this waste to zero levels in all locations across Serbia. At a time when factories were closed and people were left without a job and the ability to live decently and to support the family, about protecting the environment almost without being talked about, because the issue of existence was a burning problem, and almost no one thought about this subject to this extent. But today, when Serbia is an absolute leader in the inflow of foreign direct investment in the region, the amount from January to October exceeds three billion euros, when factories are built and opened throughout Serbia, when people are being hired, when we will be the first or among the first countries in Europe at the rate of GDP growth, when Serbia is building more than ever, when despite the crisis caused by the pay-and-retire coronation virus and pensions continue to grow continuously, and the state has the possibility of helping citizens and economics in addition to money, Serbia today also has the opportunity to invest in preserving and improving the environment and to move unstopably towards an ever better living standard of citizens and creating a better place for life for all future generations despite the global crisis caused by the coronal virus that has hit us. At this point, unfortunately, we don't know when this pandemic will be stopped, but we do know that the path towards vaccination is the right way and that we need to go that way to preserve our own, but also the health of our loved ones, but also to continue to strengthen our economy by taking serious, firm and large steps. It is sad that there are still people, or part of the opposition, who criticises absolutely everything that is done and challenges every success, without offering absolutely no solutions. But that's why they're asking for support from foreigners and foreign embassies to get their hands on the chair again and work against their country. So we saw that they started their campaign in Washington instead of among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They are no longer seeking support from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they know that support in their country has long been lost and clearly the citizens show it. They clearly show that they no longer want to be robbed, but want to live in Serbia as it is today. In Serbia, which headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, progresses more and more every day, in Serbia where it is being done and built, in Serbia where the will of citizens is respected and the power is being elected by citizens, not by foreign embassies. The biggest speakers to criticise today, among other things, and on environmental protection, are those who have had the opportunity to work and solve all these problems when they were directly in charge of it. At the time, they had more to do in this sense to fill their pockets and private accounts, and they did not deal with the needs and problems of the citizens. It is a shame that exactly the same people are now engaged in daily attacks on the president, on his family, and on all of us who are fighting for decent Serbia. They go so far that nothing is sacred to them, so every day they attack the president's children, and we've seen how far they can go by deliberately placing false news on children who allegedly fainted in Lazarevec because of enormous air pollution. You can see the results today. We are aware that decades of problems cannot be solved immediately, but progress is also as visible as your, well-respected minister, and therefore you have our support. In the day to vote, together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10415	Thank you. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10416	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I will make sure that I am summed up in my speech, not to repeat myself with my colleagues. Certainly, the topic is extremely important, but I don't suppose it's politically interesting, and in this discussion, first of all, I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that what we're discussing today is not some topic that might be occupied by the public and that might be discussed, but it is extremely important that we understand the importance of this topic for a few reasons, so I will try to remind all of us of a few things that have been in the past time period, and first of all, to remember the beginning of the pandemic of the coronary virus last year, to remember the atmosphere in which we have all found ourselves globally, and first of all here in Serbia, in the region, in the absence of certain, to say, chemical products, biocidal products and all others that were extremely important in this context. In a short time, the market had to be stabilised in everything. If we remember the lack of disinfectants, those that were extremely difficult to obtain at first until after gloves, masks and everything else. How, in the shortest time, the state of Serbia managed to establish a stable market with its leadership, that in a very short time we had a sufficient number of masks and a sufficient number of gloves and chemical resources, above all for the reasons that preceded it. Here, primarily today, I want to highlight these things that are extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, for our public health, not only in the context of health, but also in the context of health protection, the environment and everything else that is related to it. In fact, the state of Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe that has preserved public resources, public systems, in the context of a health protection story in the Republic of Serbia. The fact that we still have Torlak today, that we have the Biocidal Institute, that we have other different institutes, proved best in the pandemic era how important it is. In many countries these systems went into the privatisation process, etc., did not pay attention, and in a relatively short time we transformed and came practically in a year, everyone remembers maybe these new announcements, but already what happened last year we all forgot, and today we are in a position to build three new coves of hospitals, to have vaccine factories in Serbia, etc. It is all the fruit of the stability of the country's leadership, which has simply allowed the needs of Serbian citizens to be realised very quickly, in terms not only of the needs that existed at the beginning of the virus's corona, but also today when the virus has mutated and when the management of these segments that we are discussing today is extremely important. So I wouldn't ignore this subject. She may not be that interesting today, but here's what happened last year. We've all been waiting for this information to go in this direction, to get the answers we need right here. In that sense, what I'm saying is that, thanks to the Republic of Serbia and this kind of policy, all the countries in the region have the benefits that we have achieved here. Once again, I will remind everyone that the Republic of Serbia at the time when it was most important, when there was no vaccine, offered the hand of friendship to all the countries in the region, that citizens from countries in the region were coming here to Serbia, that we donated vaccines, that we donated medical equipment. First of all, I will talk about examples for the Republika Srpska but also for the Federation of BiH. Let's say, when there were no respirators here at all in the region, when they couldn't get in the Corona period, we donated not only to Republika Srpska's respirators, but also to Gorazd, the Canton of Gorazdan. It is one message that needs to be pointed out over and over again, because today, when other things happen, when we have an energy crisis, last week there was a gas pipeline malfunction in Bulgaria, when completely Sarajevo and practically the eastern part of Republika Srpska ran out of gas, the only alternative that Sarajevo politicians then said was that there was an alternative that was related to Serbia. Serbia is always there to be the first choice, to always give a hand of reconciliation, a hand of support and everything else. We borrowed gas, but if it wasn't for the brotherly and human will on our part, the citizens of Sarajevo would freeze. That should be pointed out in every segment of this discussion. In that sense of the word, I'd like to say one more thing. The opposition representatives have been in the United States these days. Among other things, the topic was everything that could surround Serbia and Serbia's leadership. Among other things, Mr Stefanovic and Djilas muddyed this kind of story about the acquisition of vaccines, the purchase of a respirator and everything else. How hypocritical this may best show that those who stood by them and confirmed that kind of story today are smart and speaking from a distance, not thinking at all about what happened last year. Let's not forget that the complete system of public health, globally, has completely broken down, that no one has paid attention to anyone and that all countries have to run their own policies. It is the firm leadership and foreign political agenda, which is based on four pillars of foreign policy, Aleksandar Vukic, with the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all those who helped to raise himself in such a difficult global situation in the shortest time, and that everything I have previously listed is very quickly obtained, both respirators and vaccines, etc. Now talk from some distance, given that it was not a normal market at that moment, for as many respirators were obtained, for how many vaccines were obtained, which today have some commercial price, market price, has them thank God, now we have another problem with vaccination, etc., is irrelevant in every sense of the word. But using it as an argument is saying enough that the thesis we often talk about here in the Serbian Parliament is absolutely true, which is that they are working against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just going to point out that their second thesis was the destruction of another real resource, which is that the guidelines are critical of the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia, which today has thrown out one excellent news with one multinational company "Vodafone", that it has concluded an agreement and that it will practically "Telecom" will go to great heights on the market in terms of telecommunications and everything else, and that this team that has gone apparently lobbying interestedly for Solak's company, for the tycoon firm, that it has also revealed itself. Therefore, the aim of their visit is to defile Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic, and make a combination of how their joint venture with tycoon Sollak can rise up and try somehow outside the market, but politically to survive in Serbia's market. It's so hypocritical, and I think all those things that we've been able to see over the past period reveal the facelessness and lies and approaches that this team has. This team, don't let God come tomorrow in any way in power in the Republic of Serbia, would work just like this, wouldn't work for Telecom Serbia, wouldn't work for the Tolak Institute, wouldn't work for the Biocidal Institute, would do everything the other way, and would go knocking in Washington, would go knocking in Brussels to get vaccines, to get respirators, which at that point wouldn't get, as we didn't get. That is why it is extremely important that we lead a policy that has a spine, which has an attitude, which can allow in crisis situations, not including co-operation with everyone, to react as it is in the best interest of Serbian citizens. For that matter, Serbia has lived!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10417	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10418	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Vujovic, I will support these two draft laws when it comes to voting day, for one simple reason because I believe that you and your team have built credibility in the previous period so that you can present solutions from these areas in the best possible way, because the results of your work in the previous year of this government and how visible they are. I feel free to say that my personal opinion, and I suppose the opinion of most of my colleagues, is that you have done much more in your portfolio and for environmental protection in Serbia over the past year than all of your predecessors have done in the past 30 years. These are all the projects that are in the previous year and will be implemented in the future, which are going in that direction, which is to provide a better and healthier environment for all of us, because there is no one in this country who can say that he has the exclusive right to be a representative of clean air or a healthy environment. It certainly is in our best interests to be as healthy as possible and to live in our country as well as possible. Mrs Vujovic, you probably know better than I do and remember the situation the Republic of Serbia and our country was in 2012, when the SNS came to power. We had one broken state in all areas, an economy that is on its knees, record unemployment, huge external debt, a state without any international reputation, an army that has been destroyed, and we tried to, above all, create a number of economic reforms during 2014, create sound foundations to stabilise our public finances and to work in continuity to restore and restore everything that was destroyed in the years before us. Really, I'm happy today and we're all happy that it's our turn to bring about the environment and the story of protecting the environment. We really didn't have a chance to talk about it in some of the past, because really when you're hungry and when you think about how you're going to survive, it's kind of what kind of air you're breathing and whether the sewers and the feces are going to go into the river, it's kind of more important to you to be full of it than that. So it's extremely important why we're even talking about it today. I say, we've had a series of projects that you've shown seriousness and expertise. Here, first of all, I am extremely pleased and extremely pleased, as someone who comes from the interior, but I think it was really one big problem for this city and this country, and I mean the Vinca dump, which is finally closed, because, as Prime Minister Brnabic once said, it was indeed perhaps the second biggest environmental problem back then in Europe, and that together with our Japanese, French friends, we will work on it further and create a regional waste treatment centre. We already have some shifts in this problem, but in the future when we build a unit that will burn that waste and when that energy is used for both the heating and the citizens of Belgrade, and when we prevent further decomposition of this waste and the creation of methane and pollution of further waterways of the Danube River, it will certainly be one of the things that will contribute to a better and better environment for the citizens of Belgrade. What was never clear to me, among other things, and we're a little bit further away from the topic, is how it's possible that one of the oldest historical, civilizational archaeological sites is created in Europe where waste from Belgrade has been delayed for more than 40 years, and we know that one of the oldest archaeological sites in the site is probably one of the localities that speaks of the first beginnings of civilization. So, by all means, considering that, it is no longer just an ecological issue, but it is certainly both a political and a national issue. As someone who comes from Priboj, I really need to give you the gratitude of all citizens of the Municipality of Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varosh for everything you've done for our end in the previous period. Indeed, we have spoken here many times about what was done in Priboj and Prijepolje and in Novi Varosha, which were the problems when you came to the head of the environmental resistor. I will remind you only of the cleaning of the Potpeč Lake, the closure of the non-sanitary dump "Stavinina", but also in further investments in the transfer of stations to Banjaca for the three municipalities. We, as you know, even opened our first biomass heat in Priboy a few days ago. So we are expected next year to build a wastewater treatment system, so we are really trying very hard to improve the lives of the citizens of Priboj and these municipalities, but also to worry about environmentality and the healthy environment. For all this I say, thank you very much. What is really debateable is that today we see who are those who are in Serbia from some parts of the former regime accounting and are truly interested in the problem of the environment, so they no longer question who they are going to call for help from Europe or from the world to help them in their struggle. So we see Nebojsa Zelenovic, who in the previous days with Viola von Kramon visited Loznica and the Sabaic region, trying to present how harmful further research is in the area when it comes to jadarite. Indeed, only one who does not know who these people are who support, who cares about it can say that they want something good in the whole area. So you also have people from the former regimes who go to America and spit on their own people in Kosovo and Metohija saying that criminals, who promise who know what, are probably promising recognition of Kosovo's independence, all in co-operation with the Shiptar lobbyists and congressmen who are really asking if they even know where Serbia is, let alone anything else. So, we will continue in the future to work on important environmental projects. It is important for us, of course, and the energy transition, but we will not allow Serbia to become energy-dependent, we will not allow for the reason that we see what happens when in Europe and the world you have an energy crisis, we will not allow that we have to import electricity, we will use coal, but we will certainly do, we will create plants, as Zidjin made in Bor and Smederev for decapitation, this is what we expect in TENT, so that these are all things that go along with industrial and economic production, but that care about the environment and environmental protection in the Republic of Serbia, in line with the needs of its citizens. So, the election is very close. I think the SNS of pure cheek will go to those elections, have something to offer. Among other things, you're about this area a really great representative of this whole policy and your results are really for a great respect. Although some believe that this people will have no good reason to remember SNS and Alexander Vukic, I think that as well as future generations and this nation will remember the time of the SNS rule, headed by Alexander Vukic, because surely history will only give the seal and the additional value of all its works, because it has succeeded in reviving its idea and its efforts, building Serbia and restoring its dignity to this country and to these people. So, dear Mrs Vujovic, I want you to really continue to do as well as you have done in the coming period and to fight along with everyone for a better, nicer and cleaner Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10419	Thank you. The word is Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10420	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister Vujovic and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would first like to begin my presentation to express one deep condolences to the Zukorlic family and all dear colleagues from the parliamentary group and the party to which Mr Zukorlic belonged. I'm so sorry about what happened. My deepest condolences. I absolutely support this all that my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" said today and what our minister, Mrs Irena Vujovic, has said. Of course, in the voting day, I will support these two proposed laws. What I'd like to point out to this opportunity is that it's ecology, i.e. protection of the environment, one of the most important areas in Serbia as well, especially with regard to European integration. I would like to remind you that it was DOS's parties, how it was the DS by 2012 that destroyed especially this part of environmental protection and environmental protection. So we had various cleaning actions conducted by Minister Oliver Dulic. They cleaned up, but cleaned Serbia's budget, put millions in their pockets, and Serbia was increasingly polluted and polluted. Fortunately, thanks to the first government of Alexander Vukic since 2014, things have started to improve for the better, but especially with regard to environmental protection we have concrete and serious results in the past 12 months. So we don't have an end to Serbia where Minister Irena Vujovic and her associates didn't go to every point that had a problem with pollution, with environmental protection, then to solve the waste problem and all that is related to the ministry that runs. Of course, this does not correspond to opponents from the opposition's work gathered around Dragan Gilas, because it does not answer to them to be led by a restor, to be headed by the government and to be headed by Serbia's responsible people who protect Serbia, not only from pollution, not only to protect the environment and our ecosystem, but also to protect the budget, and to protect Serbia from crime. Then it's quite logical, to me incomprehensible, but logically it happens, the anxiety and actions of Dragan Gilas and his associates and his deputy Borko Stefanovic, and then he goes to the U.S. to find there among Albanian lobbyists, his fellow tycoons from all over the world, who he's been working with, with whom he's been making millions of deals to find a way to fight Serbia. When Dragan Gilas fights Serbia, he is also primarily fighting Alexander Vukic, who protects Serbia and in his fight nothing is sacred to him, and will then make a pact with Albin Kurti, with Albanian terrorists, with some seven congressmen, with all of them, to bring down Alexander Vukic and to continue where he left off. And where did he stop? I have to be honest, he didn't round up everything he took as he wanted. He stopped at only 619m euros. Perhaps in his plan and program he was assigned to take a total of 700, 800, or a billion. So that's where we Serbian citizens should understand Dragan Gilas, he wants and must continue where he left off, there's only one problem besides, of course, legal obstacles, he has a problem with the people as well. With a people of Serbia who will certainly not give them support in next year's elections, and of course, that Dragan Gilas will not return to power, but citizens always need everything true, timely, reasonable and clear to explain what he is doing in the United States, what he does when he travels around the world, and we must also justify his travel around the world. Well, you know how, he's got 619 million euros, but it's not easy for him. He doesn't have it in one bank or a couple of bills. He has to visit several countries to visit those 619m euros scattered on foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts on several continents. So we have to justify all the trips of Dragan Gilas and his need to travel. Then when Dragan Gilas is scared, because the people in Serbia won't, then he must seek regional and international support. He must seek international support, as the largest amount of his money is located outside Serbia. And what ties that money to Serbia is that it belongs to the citizens of Serbia. Why? Because that money was taken from Serbian citizens, but it wasn't taken in a year. It was kidnapped in one period of about eight, nine years, as Dragan Gilas performed several functions. He stood out and led some kind of National Office with Boris Tadic, and served as minister for the national investment plan, then the mayor. The first time started, the second time, fortunately it was cut down at the end of 2013. So that's where we need to understand Dragan Gilas, but also his comrades. Of course, in order for him to have stronger support as far as abroad is concerned, he must always activate Borko Stefanovic there. Who is Borko Stefanovic or former Borislav Stefanovic? It seems to me that his name was wrong, it was the same Stefanovic who, when he was the political director of the foreign ministry, went to the United States often, even there for a time until Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic pulled him into the Foreign Ministry. Borko Stefanovic has serious contacts. Let us not forget that he was the worst negotiator in history regarding the resolution of Kosovo's fate and Metohija, has great contacts among Albanian lobbyists. Then it is perfectly normal that there is a coalition of Gilas, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, first to connect with Albanian terrorists and separatists and Albanian lobbyists. Who knows, maybe Dragan Gilas wants to wash his illegally earned money along with his Albanian partners. That's very possible, but I'm not surprised with Dragan Gilas. So we need to understand this hysterical criminal activity of Dragan Gilas and this international lobbying. So, we have one coalition where both Djilas and Stefanovic, and Jeremic, but for their support they also need their activists and mercenaries who stay in Serbia more than them, there is, of course, so now it has its own role as Marinika Tepic and Miroslav Aleksic and this new political asset, and the old military general, and we know what Zdravko Ponos was and all of their other gatherings on the political scene, as well as those gatherings on the territory of downtown Belgrade. These are those from this coalition or movement, as they are already called, NGOs are not strangling Belgrade. So, we have one broad coalition, but which has the most possible support of the people, that is, there is no support of the people and the question is whether their story will cross the censorship, and if they cross the censorship of the miserly results because the people will not, but here are hundreds of millions in the game and it is perfectly normal that both Đilas and Stefanovic and Jeremic and Solak, Marinika Tepic and Miroslav Aleksic connect, they were not and kept, not only their own capital, but they did not save their chance to try to return in any way to power in Serbia to continue to kidnap hundreds of millions of euros. They will not return in those ways that they are used to, they would like to invade here into this wonderful National Assembly if they were to burn it and come to power without a choice. They can't come to power without a choice because this is a democratic state. Serbia is a democratic state and the people decide in Serbia. It may bother Dragan Gilas to fight for both Kosovo and Metohija and the Serb people in Cosmet, and to fight the crown of the virus, and to strengthen the economy and to protect the environment we are talking about today, he may mind, but it is the people who decide. They are confident that the people will win next year, that they will defeat Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10421	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10422	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, in line with the policy implemented by the Serbian Government, which is based on the vision and ideas of the President of the Republic and which aims to regulate how autonomous legal regulations with the regulations of the most developed and most orderly countries of Europe and the world and this law on amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination aims to regulate our legal norms. First, to make life in our country more quality and secondly to make Serbia find itself in a little earlier society. Although this law has the basic intensities to regulate the types of activities and facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued, it shall then determine who is responsible for issuing licences, which are the obligations of the competent authorities and the conditions for issuing, the procedure for issuing, supervision, penalties and other issues which are relevant to preventing environmental pollution control. It should also be said that the objective of these amendments to the law is to extend the time limit to the competent authority for the resolution under the submitted requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation, including the facilities for which transition periods will be negotiated with the EU, as well as to comply with the Environmental Protection Act in the work relating to the documentation submitted with the application for an integrated authorisation. In fact, the law of Article 58 provides that an operator, i.e. a complex, which has activities which are present or may be present with one or more hazardous substances, in small or more quantities than prescribed, shall be obliged to provide information or to develop an accident prevention policy or to report on the safety and protection of accidents in relation to the amount of hazardous substances to which the activities are carried out and to take measures to prevent them. Finally, it should be stressed that amending this law provides legislative, administrative, administrative and other conditions for more efficient functioning and organisation of integrated permits in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, I don't see any reason that can be disputed not to support it unanimously in the voting day. Now I would just like to refer to one topic that has been current for the last few days and I would like to say a few words about it. Namely, the famous Italian writer and poet Dante Aligieri said in his extratime "Divine Comedy" that in the last circle, the ninth circle of hell, there are neither murderers nor wickeds nor anyone else but traitors. Although the comparison is a little harsh, and it will likely come to the condemnation of those concubines, who in all ways are trying to condemn every opinion, every political stance of any member of the SNS, but I will dare to make a clear partnership between this Dante claim and our political opponents, who have recently stayed in America and have openly aggressed against the interests of their country, not by choosing, to express the people's capacity "to be caught in a wheel" whether they will be caught in a wheel with American congressmen, with Albanian lobbyists or Bosnian interest groups or with any other who share their common interest, which is the humiliation of Serbia, it is an insult of Serbia, and it is the representation of their own country on earth similar to that Bible soda and gomorth. The only thing that distinguishes these interest groups is motives. These Kosovo and Bosnian lobbyists are paid to enable them to realise their political interests in order to force Serbia, for example, to recognise the independence of KIM, to give up Republika Srpska and others, to say so, our lobbyists are not doing so, so that perhaps by some intrigue, by showing hypocrisy and lies they try to slander the government, so that they again jump into the state saddle and fight to preserve and increase their illegally acquired property. I have to point out that against this first group of people, I don't mind. They fight for their interests and they must be respected. How, respected citizens call, so to speak, our lobbyists and is it possible to respect someone, eventually and give him some vote in the elections, if he works against his own country exclusively in the interest of his finances, such as the gentlemen owners of the Darekt Media and Multicom Group? It is quite clear that representatives of these opposition groups and groups led by Gilas, led by Jeremic, Čut, Mrs Tepic, here we now see that there are affirmatives and Mr Dragan, Ponoš, with the keen support of Mr Solak Dragan, who quickly ran to sell his television to the former head of the US Central Intelligence Agency. So, did the mentioned gentlemen and Gilas, Chuta and Jeremic, who could not have imagined in the most ambitious way in their wildest dreams that they could come to power and therefore use every opportunity to seek help from anyone who could help them climb the same without asking for a price. How much of this desire for power reaches some irrational situation also confirms the fact that the gentlemen mentioned do not remember details from the closest history such as the international community promised honey and milk only if Milosevic was removed from the political scene, and when removed with new demands, with new aspirations, which was often confirmed by Ambassador Montgomery and president, then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Although you show those qualities, gentlemen, which Serbs are ashamed of, don't be naive so that you can be anything more than blind listeners in meeting geopolitical and strategic interests, those you now love laps, and the Serbian people will never accept it, and you will soon see it by the number of votes you will get in the next election. Serbs do not support those who kneel before foreign embassies, domestic and foreign tycoons, but those who have the courage, wisdom and knowledge to fight, think and work are excluded in the interest of their people, which is without doubt SNS with President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10423	Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10424	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister, Mrs Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, I would like to begin by commending the work of Environment Minister Irena Vujovic. You're really working at a difficult moment when it comes to the environment. I would say that it has never been so difficult and complicated for anyone in that place so far to work as it is for you, because of these massive toxic and faceless attacks used by tycoons and criminals in Serbia, attacking the government and attacking your ministry by saying that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of Serbia, and I don't know who's still conspired against the citizens, so it poisons them with some polluted air. I wonder if we're all breathing the same air? Do we all live in the same country? Do we all drink the same water? Do we all eat the same food? Are we all the inhabitants of this country, this most beautiful country in the world, the Republic of Serbia? Do we all get out of our jobs and breathe the same air? Absolutely. But no. It is absolutely necessary to use everything in the worst possible way, but everything that happens to attack Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to attack every minister individually, and also what you cannot influence and cannot influence. What, the air wasn't polluted when Dragan Gilas was in power? There may be some minor differences today, but they say -- we'd shut down the factories, we'd shut down a number of plants open, production. Well, of course it would be cleaner air, but that's why 600,000 people would be left out on the street without a job and without a future. But at the same time, you, too, at the head of your ministry, are proposing excellent legal solutions here and you are fighting for the environment, for cleaner air and for better living conditions when it comes to the environment in Serbia, and at the same time we are opening factories, opening new jobs, doing roads, bridges and all that Serbia's citizens need in every sense to make life much better than it was by 2012. In 2012 and up to it, since 2000, you have had one single concern among the people who led Serbia. It's how they sell out everything someone's been building in Serbia for decades, as soon as they put everything in their pocket. And who cares about the environment. I don't remember one tree that they planted, they just cut. Everything that's arrived they've cut. We remember the Bulevar affair, how they mutilated that beautiful street. Platans that have been old for decades without mercy cut one by one and said it was a great idea and it would be bigger, and better, and older ones that they would crew up. Now, this sinister and nastadic philosophy brought Serbia to where it was then, at the very bottom of all issues. They didn't plant anything but an accident in this country, nothing but debts and, of course, billions. As my colleague Mrdic said, and he's right, that 619 million, which is why he's nervous, he hasn't met the man's goal, 619 million was just part of that tycoon criminal's plan, I'd say that billions are in question that this snotty bastard wants to kidnap this country. I apologize to the citizens for this dictionary, but you can't find another dictionary for that. There are no other words. I can only use worse for him. Someone who has left so many hundreds of thousands of people in this country without bread, no work, no job, no future, has now come to whine over polluted air. He sheds tears, a martyr, but he doesn't get out of the car. Which doesn't go on a bike to his party. Just as many members as there are, so much can fit on that one bike, maybe Marinika on that basket to hang herself in the back. There are so many votes, for one bike, and it is not worth a single rotten, ruined bike, and its party, and the policy it offers to the citizens of Serbia, and not everything it has done to this country. All that he's done to this people for 12 years, their government is only worth enough to get the goods and the strip suit. And I'm sorry that the citizens would have to pay out of their budget, but let's, we'd buy it, so full of heart, we'd buy it with this striped suit. You're very supportive of what you're doing. At the most difficult moment, when tycoons are most popular to talk about air, you have had the courage to deal with fighting for environmental protection. Of course, I will support, as well as my colleagues, the legal proposals you gave us today in the voting day, there is no dilemma. We remember, and I have to mention that when I talk about the environment, before some other things, we remember that famous action by Minister Oliver Dulic "Let's Clean Serbia". They cleaned up, but the pockets of Serbian citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for hundreds of millions. It's a real example of how they would clean up, how they would maintain, so that they could take care of the environment if, God forbid, they had a chance to be in power again. In that environment, in which Gilas would be the government, no one would be left to live in Serbia. There would be no chance of you surviving in such a country, and we have to repeat that every day to the citizens, it must not be forgotten. Sometimes it seems to me that we are prone to be like this, maybe as a people, we are good people and good people, so we are nostalgic for a while, and in that time you can't be nostalgic at all, it can only be ailing to catch you when you think about that period of sale, destruction, fall of standards, unwillfulness, hatred of your own people, even today shows up. He packed his suitcases with his friends and went to America, where I'm lucky he stayed out, never came back. He went there to spit on his own country. Well, be a master of the opposition, no problem at all, we need the opposition, it's healthy to have an opposition and it's good to have an opposition, but a constructive opposition that will defend its country everywhere and in every place, but will criticise power with its own policy. But this is not a criticism of the authorities, but of the outpouring of hate in the worst way possible, to call Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs living there at this time, the most endangered Serbs living on the planet live in Kosovo and Metohija, calling them criminals, shame and any. How are you not ashamed to go to those people who bombed this country and say that those Serbs who live there are trapped in the ghetto, dangerous with barbed wires, who attack every day the Ship's terrorists they threaten, who are brave, who fight to preserve their hearth, you're going to call them criminals? You who are the capital of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia, in charge of 1.2 billion, which you stole 619 million. You, you swindler, you're going to say there's a criminal in Serbia. The people know this by saying “who, who, who is talking about honesty, ” he found himself talking about honesty. How did you get all that money, how did you live without a job the whole time you weren't in power? What do you live on? What are you doing? You say you sold the companies, okay? And what do you live on? Are you asking? We don't see you begging. When the summertime comes, the most expensive resorts, winters come, the most expensive winters, get in the car, 100, 200 thousand euros, 40-acre apartments, and he and his brother Gojko. From all the poverty, the savings, the torture, he was very sick and very sick and now. I'm going to go back to my colleague Mrdić's discussion, not just to go to America or a few countries, so he has to go around the man of the entire planet to see all his bills. So forget it, then come back somewhere, he can't remember where all the bills are. He's having a hard time. Well, a normal man has five bills to add to the crowd he has every day, so where are they, not over 50 bills. Enough messing around with this country. We will fight lies daily with the truth and say which is the bastard. Can't a normal man and someone who loves his own country so much that he steals from her. He'll talk about the young and where the young go. Well, you were embarrassed. How much did you give to the young? How much help did you get for the vaccines? How much help did you get for the respirators? You've only opened up the workplace of Borka, Marinika and other air-conditioned people riding with you on that bicycle across Serbia and poisoning the environment. Wherever they come, they've poisoned something. They sow seeds of evil, hate, but they won't get anything out of what they sow, they can't. We have cleansed Serbia of both evil and hate and tycoon and continue to clean it daily from the mafia and criminals and from those who would return it at that time. It is no longer born in Serbia that they would like to be born and will never be born in Serbia again. Serbia has crossed over with this period, seen, stood up, recovered, healed and as such opened its factories, jobs, roads, thanks to responsible policy by President Alexander Vukic, because if he were not there, the question is where this country would be today and whether something would be from it, where its north, east, west. Who knows how many parts the tycoons would rip her apart and the criminals wouldn't keep their feeds? They can make fun of us in their diverse Luxembourg media, all of what we're saying. Despite that show I said last time that the shooting was going on, I hope it'll be soon, there will be funds from that money that Gilas stole, the show's thief, we have a new series - and a rich cry. So when I remember that Latin American soap opera from the '90s, I remember Gilas, the way he was crying in front of the building. There, and rich cry, fits his psychological profile. It's going to be the second season and he's going to play that main role of the bad guy in the show, because what he's doing is acting bad. I just hope it won't be about the cost of Serbian citizens and that they will play that role in a prison cell, not on the loose. To victory! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10425	The word is Gojko Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10426	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products and the Amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution are primarily aimed at improving the situation in the field of environmental protection, but also at reducing the negative possible impact on human health. We are all aware of and broad application of biocidal products in both Serbia and the world, broad industrial applications, agriculture, but also in households, but what is important is to point out, first of all, that precisely because of this wide application of biocidal products we must pay maximum attention to the life cycle of these products, from production, placing on the market, storage, but at the end of these products. However, given that it is not only biocidal products that have a negative impact on the environment, I will look back at representatives of the former regime in my presentation today, which can also have a negative impact on the environment, because it is those who, through the collection of cheap political points in this area, are trying to get into the political scene, or return to power. Of course, yellow tycoon policy Dragan Gilas, who is just outside green today, is the same policy of yellow, robbery privatisation DS, when factories were closed all over Serbia, the workers were out of work, and these same yellow tycoons were getting richer and richer. Otherwise, I come from Novi Sad, when a large number of factories are closed during the yellow tycoon period, so is the "Jugo Tool", "Jugodent", "Hins", "Albus", "Agro Vojvodina", so I don't count any further. At the time, there was not a word about environmental protection, since it certainly did not lead to a cleaner air or a healthier environment. It led to this, as I just said, that workers were out of work and that these same tycoons were getting richer and richer. When we talk today about the situation in Novi Sad, anyone who wants to see the picture realistically about the city will realize that it is much better, they will realize that new jobs are open, that we have new factories, that there is a "Leir", "Aptiv", German "Continental", a "Bos" turbo-system factory, a chocolate factory "Barry Callebaut", there is a Japanese "Niedek", all the results of leading one responsible policy, the results of one basic, serious and dedicated SNS work headed by Serbian President Alexander Vukic. When we talk about the situation in the area of environmental protection, 600m euros have been invested in the construction of a plant for de-gasification in thermal power plants only from 2014 to today. Is it possible that non-suppression plants and air treatment filters in factories were not needed before 2012? Maybe it's possible, because your yellow tycoons were then driven by such thinking that if you have a factory, you have a problem, you don't have a factory -- you don't have a problem. And that was their green policy. Also today, when we hear about protests against the Jadar project, it is clear to all of us that these are political, no ecological protests, because the study on impact assessment for the Jadar project on the environment is not yet completed. When a study on environmental impact assessment is completed, public insight, public debate will be organised, citizens will be able to make their remarks, suggestions, deliver their opinion on this project and, regardless of the announcement of Rio Tinto, that they will invest 2.4 billion euros in this project if the impact assessment study and the Jadar project on the environment shows that there will be significant negative environmental impacts, the project will not be realised. Personally, I think anyone can have an opinion. I believe that the Jadar project is a great developmental opportunity for Serbia, a great developmental opportunity for our economy, because we are talking about a potential impact on the 17 billion-euro GDP, because we want to complete round the entire chain of production, from digging up the jadarite ore, the separation of lithium from that ore, the production of lithium batteries, and finally, what the hell, and the production of electric cars. And everything they say is so-called. ecological movements, quasi experts that the state has already signed some deal with Rio Tinto that the Drina River will dry up, that the Jadar River will disappear, that houses in the area will collapse, they are absolutely all false. We're talking about the underground excavation of lithium. Given that lithium represents oil and gold of the 21st century, I really can't even imagine what it would be like to have discovered so many reserves of gold or gold vessels instead of that lithium? In a conversation with people who really do mining, or geology, I have come to the realization that, for example, digging up a gram of gold requires you to dig up about a thousand pounds or so, while on the other hand, you need only 4.5 grams of ore to dig up one gram of lithium. I really can't even imagine what would have happened if we'd found so many reserves or amounts of gold instead of lithium again. While on one side some "yellow media" led by these quasi experts represent this lithium and the excavation of lithium in Serbia as something most harmful to the environment, on the other hand, we can see how absurd and hypocritical it is when these same media represent this same lithium in another country as something that is ecologically impeccable. For example, here I have one of those news, where he says, "The record concentration of lithium discovered in England. The Geothermal Engineering company proves that lithium is possible without ecological consequences. In England, record amounts of lithium have recently been discovered." Another similar news, where it is said: "Litium from Germany is ecologically impeccable and cheap. Germany has the largest lithium reserves in Europe and is preparing for a complete ecological exploitation." I am now asking the question - is it possible that only in Serbia is digging lithium equal to digging coal, i.e. lignite? Citizens should be aware that this is not just about digging up lithium, that this is about collecting cheap political points in this area, as is the case in the area of renewable energy. I'm also asking a question -- is it possible that only in Serbia rivers heal to build mini-hydroelectric power plants, while on the other hand, in Austria, mini-hydroelectric power plants are once again an environmentally impeccable renewable energy source? Is it possible that birds in Serbia are so lagging behind and stupid compared to EU birds, and wind parks endanger their lives, while on the other hand, birds in the Netherlands have no problems at all? As I once said, the only thing that bothers Dragan Gilasu is Alexander Vukic. The only thing Dragan Gilas can offer is a policy of hatred for Alexander Vukic and that hatred, if turned into electricity, would certainly be enough to illuminate several cities in Serbia. Today in our country, along with all-knowing anti-vaxers, we also have these all-knowing anti-miners who have one single goal in essence, which is that, through the manipulation of a certain group of people, they collect these cheap political points in this area, along with representatives of the former regime, they come back to power. However, I am really glad that it is the people who cast their vote in the elections for those who work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly Aleksandar Vukic, not for foreign embassies and yellow tycoons. In the day to vote, together with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the Bill on Biocidal Products, but also the amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, because I am sure that there are difficult challenges ahead of us, but I am still glad that by running this responsible policy of the President of Serbia, in particular Alexander Vukic, we will manage to respond in the best possible way to these challenges and improve the situation in every area, in every sphere of our society, and so on in the field of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10427	Thank you. The word is Dušan Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10428	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, Serbia is today an independent and independent country that builds friendship with both the East and the West and thanks to this policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, we have managed to overcome many of the crises that have been behind us for years. When we talk about the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronal virus, we cannot help but remember our reaction from the beginning of the whole situation, that we are the first country in Europe to be able to provide four kinds of vaccines and provide enough respirators for our citizens to fight this severe disease. After that, after the crisis, there was also a crisis of energy related to the price of gas and electricity in the European area. I believe that we will succeed, thanks to such a policy, to ensure favourable conditions that in the coming year we have positive natural growth, to have new factories, new jobs, to simply create conditions in Serbia, to have foreign investors come here and continue their production if Europe is hit by a more serious crisis. These are the successes of Alexander Vukic and precisely his policies where he negotiates with everyone in the world, but he respects our institutions, our national interests, our state and our citizens. In addition to this crisis that has been caused by the pandemic of the virus's corona and the economic situation, we must pay particular attention to, above all, to all the economic activities we have undertaken in recent years, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President, to create new jobs. Why am I talking about economics here today if it's about the agenda? Because both are closely connected. They couldn't talk about ecology in the previous regime because they had 25% unemployment and they closed down factories. The crisis has lasted since their arrival in power in 2000, until 2012. At the time, even the citizens did not care about ecologicals, for people were looking to provide themselves and their family with a piece of bread. Today, thank God, unemployment is 10% below 10% and conditions are created, pensions and wages are constantly growing. As much as it represents an increase, it is in constant growth, and that is what encourages citizens to believe that there is hope for this country to get on the right track. This is a prerequisite for today's ecology, for today's environmental protection, because today's awareness of nature conservation is much greater both among citizens and in the state. While they spoke politically of problems, pointed out, protested, of course afraid of all these, according to a colleague, protests these days in Serbia, we worked. In particular, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has achieved special results in the field of ecology. I'm going to take the chance today to say what we did in Chačka, because with us, the current topic is air pollution, of course in the winter period when the rainfall is less, when the wind is smaller, when weather conditions are such that all of what we produce in individual lodges at home is heating up on wood and coal and our factories are polluting the air. We can talk today about concrete solutions to what we've done, and we've taken subsidies to replace carpentry, to acquire new boilers and facades that this year, I can say, was a pilot of projects, but I expect all local self-government to be involved next year with larger funds. We also heard that the budget for ecology was doubled in the following year. We planted 1,000 new trees in Chačka every year, closed all the boiler rooms on a mule in the center of town. We've closed and re-cultivated the dump in the Prelyci. That's the problem the previous democratic government left us. So to understand what I'm talking about, it's a dump of 12 acres from the city of Cačka, in a populated area. The resolution ministry has defined 200 million dinars to close the dump, to recultiate and to allow us to build a park and plant trees in the coming period. Now, that's Alexander Vukic's policy and the SNS, the closure of dumps, the removal of waste, the creation of new green areas and all that will protect the environment. I have to say, it wasn't like that before, when it comes to DS, and they just left us with the problems and dumps that we had to solve and clean up. So today, in addition to all these economic problems, we have these ecological problems that we are having a great time dealing with. I believe we'll achieve good results in the next period. I'm not worried at all about the environmentals in our country right now because the gas connection is cheaper and the conditions for the purchase of solar panels are better and citizens are increasingly more difficult to create from their facilities an energy-efficient house to save and preserve nature. I'm more concerned with each other's pollution in our country. In particular, since we're talking about garbage, I'd like to touch Dragan Gilas too. We have a problem with emissions and harmful information and influences that its media is placing and creating in the public, and in particular this applies to my colleagues, and to the younger ones, in our country because they constantly place disinformation and lies to dehumanise families of top state officials, to criminalise the state and to make young people sick with both politics and politicians and Serbia, hoping that maybe in about five or ten years, they'll be able to pick up some political point. We see these days, they're not hiding anymore. Here, we had a chance on social networks to see, and today, here. It is a photograph where Dragan Djilas and Borko Stefanovic do not hide their mission in America, where they aim to protect the interests of their companies, especially media, because they are money. That's the only reason they left. They don't mind destroying Telecom and our public resources, they did it while they were in power, but it fascinates me how bold and rude and arrogant they are in these intentions that they are no longer hiding, that they have no consequence and that the state authorities can't reach them and jump. Did they hide that money legally, unlawfully I hope the time will come and for it to be answered, to see what they were doing and how they gained 619 million, i.e. Exactly just Gilas, and how much more money he's provided in other accounts, that's what we'll hopefully find out in the next period. That's why there's no reason for them to talk about ecology, that they care about our environment. There is someone who cares about it and you Ministers have every honour of it, we will open up in the next period in Cačka and in the next three years we will also get a wastewater treatment plant. This was not the case in the previous period and it was really for every commendation and year by year more funds are being invested in environmental science in my city. I must say, we were able to remove all these wild dumps that once had the status of current and long-term. So sometimes deposits in the city center or in the suburban areas were long-lasting because they didn't know how to solve this problem, and our municipal public enterprises managed to remove these dumps, because they deal specifically with the causes and not the consequences. We've also set up photo traps and our citizens in Chačka know and take care of it. They don't throw garbage, they take care of where they put it. We've got enough underground containers and we're good at managing municipal waste. I'm talking about Chuck, and I believe that's true in other cities. When I talk to my fellow MPs here, I see a lot going on. I can only say that the citizens would understand why we keep mentioning Chilas and why we point to his marifetteluks. Because we do not want to allow and we must not allow because of all the young generations that are ahead of us and who will gain the right to vote in the next period to live in lies in everything that their media has placed in order to discredit us, to pollute the politics of young people, but to be determined to fight and to remind citizens of what kind of situation was in the field of ecology, economy, health, and every other area in our society during their power, so that they will never again get the chance to return to power by mistake or by some violent means again. Until then, Serbia has lived and we continue to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10429	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10430	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, given that we are now slowly bringing this discussion to an end, I believe that today we could, first of all, from your presentation of the honourable minister, at the very beginning of this session, hear enough reasons why we as the Assembly would have to adopt these legislative proposals and how much this would facilitate and improve the lives of Serbian citizens. I also think that you could hear from the discussion of my fellow Members of Parliament how much more it is necessary to say and point out and draw the parallel between the periods when the government at the level of the Republic of Serbia did the Democratic Party and what environmental protection looks like today, but also the general situation around environmentality when the SNS is leading the government in Serbia, but also in Belgrade. Why am I accentuating Belgrade? Because unfortunately, Belgrade has been in the past few years, and before the last elections, here is also before these next ones who expect us in April, somehow always targeting these NGOs who, in the absence of any other programme and campaigns, are trying to get rid of that aspect of our city's life, but also of the citizens of Belgrade. It is also very important to point out that certain organisations that organise protests in Belgrade are not often referred to these protests in any way in terms of environmental protection or ecology, but all of this eventually comes down to petty politics and some simple demagogy where, of course, the sole goal is to discredit President Aleksandr Vukic and his family. Here the MPs stood out many times and on many occasions returned to the situation around Rio Tint. I am not sure that one of the MPs has brought out something that is crucial and that is very important, and I certainly believe that we must repeat it many times, for the simple reason that citizens somehow forget things easily. In fact, Rio Tint is today most talked about by one part of the opposition, which was led of course by Dragan Gilas, and they see it as their own weapon in hand in the account against Alexander Vukic and everything that is happening today in Serbia. For the sake of truth, Rio Tinto came to Serbia in 2002 and from 2002 to 2012, as many as nine different agreements and solutions that followed each other as on tape were signed. What is very important is to point out that on 1 February 2012, two agreements were signed on the eighth and ninth, with regard to the permit of the wells that were started to be made during that period. So, all the charges that Rio Tint is behind the SNS and some kind of personal interest of Alexander Vukic, when you look at this data fall into the water. What is particularly interesting, and what depicts hypocrisy, but also in general, all the politics of Dragan Gilas, is that in a certain period some things suit him, so he supports them, and when he thinks that he will bring him the benefit of being against these things, he is the strongest critic. Such a situation was with a Belgrade-based subway that was promising in 2008, 2009 and 2010, so when it failed to start building the subway, you had a chance yesterday to hear that we don't need the subway now. The situation was also with Belgrade on the water. He represented the project around the world, had this vision, said it was necessary for Belgrade to land on the rivers, and when the SNS implemented the project, it was the loudest opponent of the project. The same situation is with lithium, about those things that my fellow MPs mentioned before me, I don't particularly want to look back on, but just so the citizens of Serbia know what hypocrisy is, and just to make sure once again that there are double arches, but also the insult of the intelligence and thinking of Dragan Gilas in that direction, that no one remembers what he was saying and everything he stood for. The proof of this was also his interview on 25 October 2017, for Sunday, under the title "first interview, the return of Dragan Gilas", and in that interview he made a bunch of false things, especially if you look at the period of one year before the elections for the city of Belgrade, and in that interview you can read that he was very restrained when his candidacy was mentioned. So, he wasn't sure if he was going to go to those elections, what citizens would expect, and generally, all his objections were very casual without any argument or evidence. What is particularly interesting about this topic is the question to which he has answered very decidently and very concretely, namely, the question is – as if you are not satisfied with the subjects of the opponents of this government, and what would you like the opposition to talk about? So this is a question addressed to Dragan Gilas. Let's talk about Belgrade, about economics. Here, confirmed that Loznica discovered the second largest lithium site in the world and the largest in Europe. Let's talk about the concession of those mines, but let's have the battery factory stay with us because they're in all the cell phones and electric cars. Isn't that a chance for Serbia? It will employ thousands and thousands of people and make a brand of our country. Imagine in every mobile phone or car the part that says "made in Serbia". So, in 2017, you can hear here loud and clear that Dragan Gilas has advocated himself and that it was one of the items of his programme and thinking about how to improve life in our country and how to further employ people. In 2021, Dragan Gilas spoke all the opposite of this for a simple reason because he now thought that playing on an ecological map, protecting the environment, although nothing in that field was done while they were in power, could bring him any more. This, respected citizens of Serbia, is a typical example of how he understands and experiences politics, and how everything he could do in the city of Belgrade and at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia while DS was in power, all of this could have been improved, all of it could have improved, but unfortunately none of it did. He has done only for himself and for himself close people, a narrow circle of people from whom he has created the richest people in this part of Europe. This is just one in a sea of examples of how someone who thinks and experiences politics and sees only as a weapon that will be further enriched, as someone who has served as Minister and Director of some kind of government office, someone who was mayor, how he used his position only for personal promotion and making some kind of contact that will give him even better positioning and even greater wealth in the coming period. Just for the sake of truth, in 2017, at a time when he said this, he was not yet a candidate for mayor, but in 2018 he entered the race confident, according to his statements, that the citizens of Belgrade would condemn the current SNS policy and that he would win convincingly. The result of these elections was more than clear, the SNS today in the city parliament has an absolute majority where Dragan Gilas and his partners Sasa Jankovic and Vuk Jeremic won about 16%, and I am convinced that the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia are very well-recognizable of everything that is being placed from the ranks of that part of the opposition today, because you will not hear any ideas, any programme, or any vision in which our country is necessary to develop. And you won't hear what's better than what we could do or what's better than what they've done in their time of power today. I am a confident, respected minister, that in the next period before us, you will be going out with even more good bill proposals. I am also amazed that the topic of environmental and environmental protection will in some future period achieve and be increasingly represented, that the results will be getting better, and I think that the confirmation of all this will best show and give to the citizens of Serbia. In the hope of being expected even more of this quality proposal, I want to thank you, and I am convinced that, next policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, we will all make together as one great team a better place to live than our Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10431	Thank you. Last reported for discussion, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10432	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is a country that has good laws on nature protection and environmental protection. The problem, however, is that these laws are primarily due to the humanities of local inspections not being carried out to the extent that this would be necessary. With the adoption of two laws today that we are discussing environmental protection, some solutions will be adopted better than those existing ones. However, without a change in the environmental awareness of Serbian citizens, without a drastic change in environmental awareness of the importance of this topic, neither these two laws, nor hundreds of other laws would be sufficient to make more significant changes, improve the state of the environment on the ground, and the situation is very bad, I dare say disastrously. We've got thousands of bigger garbage dumps, we've got tens of thousands of smaller garbage dumps and dumps, we've got land around the river and about the traffic, especially about the traffic on the mountains, the rural and architectural roads that have been pressed with millions of cc's of garbage. It is commendable that the Serbian government has in recent years removed several garbage dumps in Serbia's territory, it is commendable that, as far as we can hear, brings to an end several other major dump projects, but without what I've been talking about, without a change of consciousness, without some radical action, we won't be able to solve this problem for the reason that for this time until the state has closed three, four or five garbage dumps in other places, it is likely that several dozen new dumps have occurred. I simply believe that this problem can only be solved in one way, by organising a national action to clean Serbia of garbage. The action would be led by the Serbian government, the action would be armed for ten years and the action would be led daily with great media support. I think it would be a good idea to do the next thing. Under number one, task each municipality to draw up a plan with concrete waste disposal projects on its territory for the next ten years. Under number two, in each municipality organize local voluntary work actions to clean up trash and national work. I am telling you, if the state stands behind this project, if this project gets adequate media support, if the front pages of our media are not reserved for politicians only, reality players and criminals, these calls for participation in Serbia's cleaning actions will be answered by hundreds of thousands of people. One such action was organised in Slovenia a while ago and more than half a million people responded. What would they accomplish that way? First, we'd save a lot of money in the budget. Another thing, they'd take tens or hundreds of thousands of people out of cities and apartments in nature. Third thing, we'd clean up Serbia. The fourth thing, I think, is to encourage people's awareness, because when people see their neighbors and members of their families going to clean up the garbage they've been throwing, then next time they'll think about whether they're gonna throw that trash past the containers, next to the trash can, on the green surfaces, or they're gonna put it down where decent people do it. Next thing you know, I think it's necessary to design and run a media campaign every day to raise people's awareness of how important the environment is. As part of this, commit all televisions with a national frequency to broadcast programmes on the subject daily. The Ministry of Ecology should make videos to appeal to citizens not to throw garbage. These videos would broadcast televisions with national frequencies every day in prime time. If various Christians, Mace Discretions and various social scum on televisions with national frequencies literally every day have been guaranteed by several hours of the programme, I think it would be socially justified that the fight for Serbia, for pure Serbia, gets at least 10 minutes of the programme daily on all televisions with national frequencies. Televisions that refuse to participate should be left without a national frequency. Next thing you know, there's a criminal policy to be tightened. In Belgrade, we have thousands of cameras monitoring traffic in the capital, but I don't know if there's a single surveillance camera watching the garbage dump. The next thing, large subsidies from the state budget should encourage the establishment of a waste collection and processing company. The last thing that should be done in my opinion is to come up with a campaign of affirmation and awarding municipalities that achieve good results in cleaning up garbage on their territory. In particular, I think the choice of the purest municipality in Serbia should be organised, each year selected by 10 municipalities, rewarded by significant budget funds, so when the municipalities hear that a municipality has received 1m or 2 euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget because it has achieved good results in cleaning up its territory, then these municipalities will also try to get those funds. I'm going to give two examples here, and that's what I'm going to end up with. The first example is the municipality of Razanj. Razanj municipality is a small municipality near Aleksinec. It is small by the number of inhabitants and territory, but large by the consciousness of its citizens, how important the purity of their place is for life in the city. I've been there three times, and for those three times, I haven't seen any bags, I haven't seen any masks, I haven't seen any picnics by the containers. Afterwards, we went around some rural roads expecting to find a dump there. But we haven't found any. Simply, I think it would be reasonable for the state to reward these and such municipalities in some way. Another worse example is the Exemplar. Last year I went up to Pancic's top. When we came back, we agreed to stop by that tourist resort, I think it's called Sunny Valley. I expected, given how much Kopalnik was yelled, since it is a national park, since there is no Serb tycoon that does not have apartments there, I expected to find beauty there, that I would find a clean environment. However, I found a mockery, all over the green surfaces of the trash, building buildings without any order. Along the way to Pancic's top is a dump of construction waste and garbage, because these tycoons that make million-and-five million-euro buildings pay a lot to get their trucks to take their construction shot off to the planned dumps, so they take it out by the road. What defeated us the most is that in the center of the Sun Valley we found a hole in the length of 60, 70 meters, the width of 20, 30 meters, which is literally buried with dozens of cubes of garbage. So, you have exclusive buildings where the Serbian elite lives or rests, and literally 10, 15 meters in front of their windows are dozens and dozens of cubic pieces of garbage. How is that possible? Well, it's possible for reasons just because these tycoons, rich people, social elites live there, and because I'm afraid that the state there must not be people's say to spill the nose. To finish, after returning from the bathroom, I wrote a text where I suggested that the Kopalnik be taken away from the status of the national park. I know it seems to you, most people that it seems too harsh, too radical, but I'm saying that without such radical measures, without radical measures of the state, without radical measures of society, this problem, the problem of garbage, the problem of environmental pollution, we won't solve it for another hundred years, and the problem is bigger than we think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-09-0.u10433	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives, of someone who has not applied his right to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank all those who participated in today’s debate. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
