ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3805	Dear President, honourable MPs, yes, I would like a word in front of the promoter regarding our agenda. Thank you. First of all, I would like one brief piece of information to be provided to honourable Members in connection with a public competition for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. The National Assembly has, by the way, taken a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services on 3 March 2016. The term of office of members of the Management Board lasted five years. In view of the fact that the members of the Management Board of the Agency have ceased their term of office during the time they were elected, i.e. on 3 March 2021, the Resorient Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, issued and implemented a public competition for the selection of the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. On 19 February 2021, the government submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for a decision to elect a president, deputy president and board members. This decision proposes the next president, deputy and members. For the president, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, who was otherwise the chairman of the Management Board, was proposed. Deputy president Petar Stijovic, also former deputy chairman of the Management Board, was proposed. The members were proposed by Dr. Vladimir Krstic, who was also a member so far, Dr. Slobodan Ristic, a newly proposed member of the Management Board and Professor Dr. Dejan Markovic, who was also a former member of the Management Board, otherwise an expert in the field of postal services. The members of the Management Board are otherwise selected from the ranks of prominent experts with high academic education from areas relevant for the work of the Agency, especially in the fields of electronic communications, economics and rights. Also, experts who have achieved important and recognised scientific works or in practice in the field of electronic communications, i.e. postal services and enjoy great public reputation. Three members of the Management Board shall be experts in the field of electronic communications, in accordance with the members of the Electronic Communications Act, and one member of the Management Board shall be an expert in the field of postal services. All of these proposals for both the president and the vice president and members are indeed the highest academic trained experts in this area that exist in Serbia. In this regard, we must say that this composition is the most representative in the field of electronic communications and postal services.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3806	Thank you. Since Minister Popovic has not arrived yet, she will be given the floor later. Are any of the reporters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, then we move on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Vice-President of the Assembly and MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3807	President-in-Office, honourable minister with associate, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have two important topics ahead of us that we will deal with during the day and with the position of Members of Parliament are seeking to contribute to better decisions and conclusions, in this case the election of President, Vice-Presidents and members of the RATL Management Board. As we've heard, it's the personnel who've already acted on such functions and proven themselves through the performance of these functions. However, this is certainly an opportunity to reopen the topic of the use of national state goods called electronic media, which represents the ownership of all citizens when it comes to national frequencies, especially when it comes to public service. It's not the first time we've opened this topic, but, truth be told, the issue of RTS work and its professionalization in an ethical and professional sense is obviously not a question that can be solved at the level of one state authority or perhaps at the level of the appeal that is being referred here, from the position of the National Assembly, or from another level. True, this topic is delicate and it's not just about the media, but, when it comes to media, it's very pronounced, because wherever the concept of autonomy appears, we can have a problem, because the question of autonomy is mostly understood particularly by those whose law guarantees this autonomy. So, yes, the media should be autonomous, independent. The RTS should also be autonomous in its editorial policy and its work concept. However, where is this limit of autonomy and does autonomy represent or mean self-will? Unfortunately, in practice, in this case and in some similar cases, it is in fact evident that the autonomy of an organization, i.e. an institution or an institution, is actually perceived as self-will, or the possibility of having something in your hands and, in fact, the only relationship between RTS and the state as its founder is to get money to finance that institution. There is no such relationship anywhere in the world. There's no law-relationship anywhere in the world without obligation. So, from a family relationship, as long as you're funding your child, you have the right, and the obligation to have a certain responsibility to whoever gets that money. In this case, unfortunately, for years, we have such behaviour, where the only link between RTS and the state is to get huge millions of money and then to any issue of responsibility for professional work, on the way of reporting, on personneling, on editorial policy, on whether you are spending that money properly, or in accordance with the interest of those citizens, or in fact acting on your own accord, and when it comes to the public service of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, in spite of all the applications so far, we have the will to insist. So it's quite a selective approach. When it comes to political structures, it sometimes even meant, if you are a parliamentary party, that would mean the obligation of RTS or some other media, and especially public service, to treat you as an insecure factor in political information emissions, no, in RTS it is done selectively. You will find there some minor parties that have absolutely no influence, which exist quite symbolicly, they are someone's favorites in RTS, on a private or other line of interest and they are invited, they are conversators. Unfortunately, what concerns me particularly is a negative relationship or animosity towards political representatives of the national communities of minority nations, or national minorities. We have an extra negative relationship here, and that's something that's inadmissible. In the case of the Bosniak National Community, we even had a specific problem when it comes to the request, which is guaranteed by both the Constitution and the law. I remind you, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and under the relevant laws, all citizens in this country are equal, all national communities, all the peoples in this country are equal and all the nations in this country are guaranteed the possibility, the implementation of their rights, individual and collective, in the field of language, culture, all those specificities that one national community has and that community wants to inherit. In terms of the programme, in Bosnian, or presenting Bosniak culture through certain software content, unfortunately despite the official requirements addressed to this media house, we have received answers that are simply unimaginable. So we got such answers that there they asked some expert, I don't know where and they told them they didn't need it. Can you imagine, please? So, the public service of the Republic of Serbia is not important to him, for him the Constitution is not important, for them are not at all norms of cultural and civilization, constitutional and legal, but they have some experts who respect and then they tell them that they don't need it, that it's all the same and so on. So that's something you can't go through. It can't go through with one statement or any reaction and let's move on. No, we'll insist on that. I'm using this opportunity to call not only RTS, I don't know if there's any point in calling them, but to call on competent authorities dealing with the protection of human rights, the rights of national communities, national minorities, to engage and take the necessary mechanisms towards this media house that abuses its position that violates the law, violates constitutional regulations and does not serve all citizens. By definition RTS is the service of all citizens. It is a media house that must be available to all citizens, whether they were Serbs, Bosniaks, Croats, Albanians, Roma, Hungarians, Slovaks or members of any community in this country, and you know there are many, thank God. You know for a fact that according to the latest census in this country there are about 30%, almost one third of citizens do not belong to the Serbian people according to their ethnicity. If we have such insolence from the RTS position to ignore these people's rights, then we'd like to get answers whether it's something that the state authorities will accept by silence or actively, however we want such answers. Of course, we are aware that, in the beauty of political ideologists and programs in this country, we also have those who are nationalist and those who are more or less, certainly that every political organisation has the right to have its own ideological political programme, but after so many decades of various experiments and experiments, programmes, homogenisation and relations with others in a negative way has gone well enough and we have lived enough and survived. Thank God we can understand and conclude that diversity is Serbia's ethno-national and cultural diversity, in fact its wealth. Of course, it can be wealth, it is wealth if we are aware of it and if we want to experience it that way and use it that way. So diversity, ethno-national in Serbia, is a cultural advantage, because cultural exchange is never performed amongst them, cultural exchange is always carried out among different. That's what we members of the national communities who don't belong to the majority Serbian people, of course, are different here and you're in a position to hear different voices, believe me, and I could, like some of my colleagues here, say these truths harshly, boldly, throw some arguments at your face, but it's a question of elementary culture and education, but it's also a question of whether you really want your message to reach other people or if you want to cause some incident, scandal, distract yourself, come 20 minutes at the beginning, come up with a difficult statement and run away, and then leave me and Samir here to get chestnuts out of the fire. These are different approaches. I wish all members of the national minorities here, especially the representatives of the Bosniak national community, had the approach that we have, at least in methodically speaking. We can have different programs and different attitudes on certain issues, but what's our ambition is that we present our people here. I think that many of the problems we've had in the last century or the most significant part of that problem stems from our ignorance. Ignorance produces uncertainty. When you don't know someone, then your thoughts, doubts, fears, whatever they want, what they're planning. Why do I point out the RTS issue? Because RTS should be the main lever, the main tool of our mutual knowledge, where we would actually be through that media, and as is our role in the National Assembly, we actually got closer to each other, because people who are safe in their identity don't have the fear of opening up to others, they don't have the fear of offering their cultural, their ethical and all the other resources to each other, and then, on both sides. In fact, it's mutual knowledge that's the meaning, it's a cultural-civilization sense of relationships, that we have our specialities in which we inherit certain cultural matrixes, spiritual, religious matrixes, especially when we are here, therefore, Christians and Muslims, i.e. Orthodox and Muslims. There is also a very rich basis for co-operation, a very rich foundation and a strong basis for establishing co-operation. On the one hand, there are many similarities, those basic, ethical, they are common because they are monotheistic religions, monotheistic light-to-sighters. So we have a lot in common. Now let's do what's common, let's make joint programs and co-operation on this. True, there is what is different, which has been developed through religious and other concepts in different forms over time, and that absolutely does not hurt. What we're different in, let's respect each other, let's respect each other, without trying to be valuablely superior. We can compete with value, it's not bad that there's neither inside nor intercultural or intercultural competition, or interethnic competition, but not in a way that we demean each other's identity, let's say -- that's not good for you, that's our good, that's juvenile, that's infancy. People who verbally try to top each other by denying each other that's childish, that's what kids do. Kids, when they argue, they say, "That's not good for you, that's better for me." Smart people, grown people, mature people, normal people don't do that. That's why it takes an intercultural, let's say, game. It gives on dynamics, but not in the way of mutual insult, denial and non-recognition. On the contrary, but in a way of mutual respect. But let's compete in good. Let us compete who do more good to those around them, those who do not belong to themselves, those who do not belong to them. You believe that's a question of cultural quality. Everyone knows how to praise themselves. It's a low level of communication. It's in the instinct of a man to consider himself better than another, but commending himself, you know, gives himself a low level of communication and evaluation. When you commend yourself, no one trusts you. No one likes boasters. Denying another is the same instinct, it's not a court of law. That's why we need us to actually make our intercultural, even interfaith, international, so I don't get it wrong, the game, but here's the more accurate, quality dynamics. Let us compete who will do more good to whom, who will be a doer of good toward another, for only if your neighbor praises you, then it is worth it. You know, earlier, every time they wanted to know about someone, no one went to ask them, even before those old marriages were established, arranged, so they always went into the neighborhood to ask what kind of guy he was, what kind of father he was, what kind of mother he was. Why? Well, if they testify from the neighborhood that you're good, then it really is, that's right, that's what we need, to prove ourselves to each other for the good, for the well-meaning, for the quality of our relationship, for the good. True, we have two lines or two of heritage. One that is good in terms of inter-neighbor relations here in the Balkans and another that has escalated in various wars and is a ballast and a burden for our relations and, of course, we must treat it. We have to heal by having the strength to valorize everything that used to happen at least ethically in the same way. He can't emotionally do it the same way. You can never emotionally value a victim of your own and someone else's sacrifice, and it's illusory to try, but ethically you can value a victim and a crime in an identical way if you really care about being righteous and just. If we find that ethical basis that we treat victims and criminals in the same way that we don't talk about how they're more expensive, the other less expensive, that's some basis, that's the base on which we can build our relationships. That's why we need the media. In particular, we need a public service that is correct, because it is funded by citizens, to be a service of citizens, but a service of all citizens and that will enable us to build through this media house, in fact, closer to one another, to get to know one another, to recognize one another, to look for the best in each other, and to try even those bad experiences from the past into the foundations of experience and knowledge about how they should not and where they lead the wrong discourses and the wrong directions. In this respect, it is necessary to reform RTS, place it in place and find ways that they must do their part and their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3808	Thank you. Next? I'm waiting for you to pick up. Is there another president, or authorised representative, who has not heard from the reporters? You know, I understand you, too, because we're waiting for the minister to arrive who's on the other subject, but before she gets here and when we move on, let me just explain, because Veljko and Srdjan say that you may have understood that today is going to be a vote, I don't think I said that. I said that today will be a debate on these two topics, and that the vote will, of course, be, as always, tomorrow, after considering the next item of the agenda, that is, the report on the work of the Energy Agency. Just so you're aware of that. Today we will only have a debate on these two staff issues, but these are not only human questions, but they are also topics related to the jurisdiction of these bodies that we choose. Tomorrow we will discuss the Energy Agency's report and then there will be a vote. Do you suggest we take a break or continue after the discussion on the list? (Employees present in the O.R.: Pause. All right. Since we're not in a hurry, and the minister's meeting is with the president, so... I didn't want to insist on canceling these meetings, so that, for example, we can continue at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. We'll continue in 45 minutes. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I welcome Justice Minister Maja Popovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3810	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today on the agenda of the National Assembly session is a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As an authorised promoter, I will introduce you in the shortest lines to the selection procedure for members of the Council of the Agency, as well as the proposed candidates. The Anti-Corruption Act, adopted in May 2019, prescribed that the Council of the Corruption Prevention Agency is one of the two anti-corruption authorities. This body, consisting of five members, decides on complaints against decisions taken by the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, except decisions on the rights and obligations of the Agency's staff, takes the principle of applying the Corruption Prevention Act, oversees the work of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and monitors its property situation. Members of the Agency's council must meet the general conditions for working in state bodies, have completed their law school and at least nine years of working experience in the profession. They cannot be members of a political party, i.e. a political entity, and as public officials are subject to the obligations and prohibitions prescribed by the Anti-Corruption Act, which may be employed outside the Agency, or to perform other paid work, if this is not contrary to the Corruption Prevention Act. Members of the Council of the Agency shall be elected by the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all MPs following a public competition, which shall be held by the Ministry of Justice. A public competition for selecting members of the Greater Corruption Prevention Agency is conducted by the Judicial Academy. The Administrative Board of the Judicial Academy educates the Commission to conduct a public competition for the selection of members of the Council of the Agency, which is composed of three members, who must meet all the conditions required under the Anti-Corruption Act for members of the Council of the Agency. The Commission shall then carry out a test to assess the expertise, knowledge and professional integrity of the participants in the public competition, as set out in the test programme. The test consists of two parts. In the first part of the test, the training, knowledge and skills of candidates for members of the Council of the Agency shall be checked. The second part assesses their professional integrity to perform the functions of members of the Council of the Agency. A participant in a public competition for selecting members of the Major Agency may receive a maximum of 100 points in the first part of the test, while in the second part of the test, which refers to the professional integrity of the participants in the public competition for the performance of the members of the Greater Agency, the participant in the public competition is assessed as being “settled” or “not passed”. A public competition participant assessed by the assessment "did not pass" in the part of the test assessing the professional integrity of participants in the public competition cannot be proposed for a election for a member of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Objections against Commission decisions to conduct a public competition shall be decided by the Board of Appeal composed of three members, which shall also be educated by the Administrative Board of the Judicial Academy. Following the test conducted and the end of the appeal procedure, the Commission for the conduct of a public competition for the selection of members of the Council of the Agency shall deliver to the Minister of Justice a ranking list of candidates according to the success of the test. The law on the prevention of corruption prescribed the duty of justice minister to propose candidates for the election of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency that have reached at least 80 points on the test. Such an electoral process guarantees the objectification of the election of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency and their independence against the authorities of the executive authority. In accordance with the procedure for selecting members of the Council of the Agency, which was prescribed by the Anti-Corruption Act, the Ministry of Justice, on 22 October 2020, announced and announced a public competition for selecting members of the Council of the Agency in the daily "Politicals", and a public competition was published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on 23 October 2020. In addition, the public competition was published on the website of the Justice Ministry, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and the Judicial Academy. At its meeting on 22 October 2020, the Judicial Academy Management Board educated the Commission for the selection of members of the Council of the Agency and the Board of Appeal. The members of the Commission for the selection of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency were appointed: Branislav Apostolovic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court of Pensions Duško Milenkovic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court and President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and Prof. Dr. Dobrosav Milovanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. The members of the Board of Appeal were appointed: Snezana Andrejevic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court in Pensions, Olivera Stanimirović, State Advocate and Dr Ivana Stevanović, Director of the Institute for Criminal and Social Research. Twenty-six participants submitted their application to the public competition. Following the expiry of the deadline for applying for public competition, the Commission for selecting members of the Council of the Agency found that all applications submitted for public competition were timely, permitted, understandable and complete and that all participants in the public competition met the conditions for selecting members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. One participant in a public competition died in the period from applying for a public competition to conducting a test. On February 1st 2021, the Judicial Academy conducted a test assessing the professional training, knowledge, skills and integrity of participants in the public competition. Two participants in the public competition did not join the test, while 23 joined. In the test, 19 public competition participants scored at least 80 points, while four public competition participants scored less than 80 points. All the participants in the public competition who approached the test passed a part of the test assessing the professional integrity of the participants in the competition. One candidate withdrew his candidacy as a member of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The panel for selecting members of the Council of the Agency announced on 8 February 2021 at 12.00 hours the results of the test on the website of the Judicial Academy. Against the Commission's decision to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, no public competition participant has objected to the Board of Appeal. Following the expiry of the deadline for the complaint, the Commission for the selection of members of the Council of the Agency submitted a ranking list of participants in the public competition according to the success achieved in the part of the test, which assessed the expertise, knowledge and skills and provided justice to the minister on 12 February 2021. On the same day, the rank list was published on the website of the Judicial Academy. Taking into account the duty of the minister of justice to submit for election for members of the Greater Agency all participants in the public competition who made at least 80 points are: Krsman Ilic - 100 points, Stevo Bajić - 100 points, Danica Marinković - 100 points, docent Dr Milos Stanković - 100 points, Biljana Pavlovic - 100 points, Ivan Djoković - 100 points, Verka Atanasković - 98 points, Tamara Misić - 98 points, Goran Gajic - 96 points, Maja Petrovic - 96 points, Velimir Matković - 94 points, Dragan Petković - 94 points, Zagorka Kolović - 94 points, Ramila Lemajić Kišgeci - 92 points, Saša Dobin - 88 points, Bratislav Stanković - 86 points, Danja Matković - 80 points, Dragana Radovanović - 80 points. The biographies of the proposed candidates have already been delivered to you in materials. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that the National Assembly will select members of the Major Anti-Corruption Agency in the voting day, which will create conditions for its smooth work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3811	Thank you, Minister. Since we have already started the discussion of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving on. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3812	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, let me begin by saying once again that for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia the fight against corruption is essential and the precondition for creating a better society, a society of equal opportunities in which citizens will be able to achieve their human and civil rights in institutions, regardless of the social situation. So the consistent fight against corruption and its causes is, of course, essential to society and the country's progress. The main task and work of the Anti-Corruption Agency is, among other things, prevention and prevention, of course, with the control of the property and income of politicians, preventing the accumulation of functions, conflicts of interest, reporting those who abuse their function for political and personal purposes, etc. The task of the members of the Council we choose today is to ensure that the Agency is properly carrying out its work, of course, to control and verify the assets and directors of the Agency and to decide and oversee the decisions it makes both in appeal and in any other procedure. Strengthening regulatory bodies and insisting on their independence in order to justify the purpose for which they are formed is also crucial. With an independent judiciary and the strengthening of institutions, that is, I am quite confident, one of the sure ways to eradicate corruption, to keep normal people living normally, to make Serbia finally a stronger, democratic civil state with full EU membership. Corruption, as we all know, has recently been discussed when we discussed in this House the report of the Anti-Corruption Agency, poses a serious threat to fundamental democratic values, human rights, the rule of law, and goods imbalances the situation in this area further. Many research has been done among citizens on the perception of corruption and what citizens expect and how they see the fight against corruption is that these cases should be investigated more decisively, that they should ensure the legal protection of alarming officers, simplify procedures and help courts process these crimes more effectively. It is neither easy nor easy to look at all the factors that contribute to the growth of corruption in any country in the world, regardless of its democracy and development, especially in developing countries. For the most part, research has so far shown globally that it is a weak state administration and political institutions, and that is why I believe that just strengthening institutions is one of the sure ways to prevent and reduce corruption as much as possible. As a social phenomenon, corruption is as old as society, and it is alarmingly spoken of when two conditions are met. The first is that there is enough freedom in the country to talk about corruption, write, so that it can be investigated and that the media can report freely. Another condition is when it becomes very masseous, when it permeates all the institutions of society and state and interferes with the normal functioning of the legal and moral order. Corruption wouldn't be so old or so defiled if it wasn't closely related to human nature. Human nature is, in a sense, subject to corruption and weak in overcoming egoism. Being selfish and aggressive doesn't take much effort, except to follow those instincts humanly. However, the challenge is to stand up to them, the challenge is to overcome them. Living in society, in the modern society that we live in today, a man is exposed to many temptations and few are willing to admit as Oscar Wilde that I can resist anything but temptations. I would, in fact, like this, like to draw attention to the tenacity and breadth and corruption and crime that are closely linked and to remind all of us once again that it is about the fight against one social evil that destroys the community, cancels the role of legal and moral standards, endangers both public goods and the existence of most people. Corruption blooms when it's general or public good without strong protection. State finances, state property, are the real targets targeted both by organised corruption and organised crime. Let me now do a little digression here, when corruption gets enormous dimensions, when it penetrates all services, institutions, institutions, when it simply enters all the pores of society, it becomes a rapid poisoning of everything. The rogue parts of the police begin to cooperate with criminals first, and then organise them themselves. The rogue parts of the customs service first cooperate with the smugglers, and then they stage the smuggling themselves. The judiciary, health care, education, especially the economy fall under the influence of organised corruption, and the line between organised corruption and organised crime is extremely thin. Then there is a symbiosis of normal, under the precepts, and pathological phenomena, and it is very difficult in such conditions to fight together both against corruption and against crime. It is therefore important that everyone, not only of state structures, not only of the state, participate in the initial struggle, but that citizens of the highest possible support this fight against organised crime and corruption. It is important that this initial struggle is brought to an end this time, to see who is and to what extent exactly in the state structures misused the system and exploited it. The state must show that it is stronger than any mob or criminal group and thus sends a clear message that no one pays out the ways of organisation and the ways of action that cause immeasurable damage and stability and the future and the development of society in general and throughout the country. I repeat and appeal once again to all, to society as a whole, to support this fight and, of course, it would be good if that fight were not fought through the media, through media trials, leaks of information, but only in the institutions of the system. In fact, the fight against corruption confirms in a certain way that we must all be even more committed and responsible to doing the work that the citizens have entrusted us with and to control, using our supervisory function, all institutions so that we do not have a situation in the future and to stop being a society where criminal groups, with the help of individuals in state structures, think they are all powerful and untouchable. We have seen that the criminal octopus has deeply released its many tentacles into the institutions of the state, unfortunately, both in sport and in public enterprises, and in politics, but unfortunately also in political parties. The fight against crime for a safe and fair society in which citizens trust their country and its institutions must be greater than all of us together and must be above politics. It's not normal to live in a society where, as we've had a chance to see these days in the media, one of the former SBPOK chiefs beats people up on the street. It's not normal, you'll agree. Why would most police officers in the country, who are honorably and responsibly and committed to doing their job, feel ashamed because of their unscrupulous colleagues who, not only become criminals, but who, as we have seen, provide criminal groups and places where these groups gather and work and commit monstrous crimes. I wonder what's in the head of those security officers who, for 50 or 100 euros, betray both the state and the citizens both themselves and the uniform? I wonder what they teach their children? They're unworthy of both work and uniform. That must absolutely stand in the way, and in this fight we must go to the end this time. True, on the other hand, the state must provide all adequate conditions for police work and adequate compensation for the work they do, and you will agree that at this point it is the most difficult and responsible job in the country. So, provide enough income so they don't have to do another or two work besides police work to support and feed their families. The Justice Ministry has submitted a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council, which includes 19 candidates who, as you have already said, have reached a sufficient number of points on the test. Some of the candidates are already well-known to the public and I am not apostrophe of any of them. I thought at a moment when I was getting ready for this session that it would be good if we were to choose the members of the regulatory bodies that, as well as the judges and prosecutors, we could see these people, talk to them and get to know them directly before we could give them a certain job and choose to function. On the one hand, we as Parliament are responsible for their work and if it turns out that one of them has not given its maximum in direct business, in most cases we do not know the candidates we are deciding on, unless they have already been exposed to the public. It is very difficult and ungrateful to take responsibility for their actions when we choose them, and on the other hand we have no right to prejudge and assume their impact and quality. That's why you're here. The ministry has taken that responsibility, and it has established on the list of 19 candidates, of which we will choose five, included all those who have responded adequately and acquired the necessary minimum on the test. The council was supposed to start working on September 1st last year. Until then, members of the Council had to be elected. The explanation of the proposal you sent us states that the competition for five members of the Council was called on October 22nd. So, the same day we showed trust here to the entire government that you're doing this responsible job of the Justice Minister. And all the praises for that. On the day you were elected to office, the ministry called for a contest. 26 participants filed applications. In the meantime, one of the participants passed away, two of them did not approach the test, so the test conducted by the Judicial Academy on February 1st took them 23. We see that 19 has fulfilled a minimum number of points, or more than 80, and on the published list of candidates no complaints have been filed, which is also important. At the head of the Agency, the Director, who is elected by law by the five-member Council, who later decides on the complaints and decisions of the Director, shall take the principles on the work of the Agency, shall control its work, etc. What I'm saying is that the council was supposed to start working on September 1st. Not only has it not started to work, but we're choosing members of the council only now, in this session. What I'm saying is that the public and the media were interested in that question. They spoke to the Ministry. That now, I believe, has nothing to do with you, you took office on October 22nd. As a constructive observation that can be used in your future work, it is very important that the public be informed and answered the questions it raises through the media. In this case, there was no adequate response from the Justice Department. It seems to me that this is a good opportunity to make a small effort and effort together and to inform citizens in future adequately and in good time about everything about them, especially those issues in which they show and express their interest. It is not a big deal to say and to admit that there is no adequate and rational answer to any of the questions that citizens ask, it is neither foreign nor wrong, it is not only wrong for one who never does anything, so it seems to me that this is a convenient opportunity for me to give you another, if you will, and personal support in your efforts to carry out the office of the minister of justice responsibly. Therefore, strengthening the Anti-Corruption Agency is also one of the country's recommendations to fight corruption, GRECO. I am left in the end just to say that the SPS MP group in the voting day will certainly choose and vote for those candidates we consider the right choice and the best of 19 proposed for the post of member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3813	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3814	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before, therefore, today we have a debate on two important regulatory bodies. It is about electoral functions concerning both RATEL and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is, of course, the obligation and responsibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as one responsibility for all this when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, you have as justice minister. I'll take the chance first and say a few words about Ratel, about what's going on with the RATEL part. Therefore, we should select members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, i.e. RATL and members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as I said, corruption. The discussion on regulatory bodies in parliament is also part of our control function as exists in all democratic societies where the work of all institutions of the system, public authorities is transparent and accessible to the public, which has become a very good practice in our Parliament. I think it's a very good practice, and that, apart from talking about what the agenda points are, we can always exchange an opinion, discuss topics that are current, and also about your ministry and the ministry of the ministry that was just here. I simply believe that it can only be useful and contribute not only to today's debate, but also to the future of Serbia, the future of each Serbian citizen, and of course to a more efficient work both by the government and your ministries individually. Also, the choice of regulatory bodies is a transparent procedure and confirms that both the legislative framework and the parliamentary practice bring us closer to European standards, which is our goal. To speak of the importance of the work of these independent authorities now when it comes to selecting responsible people who will manage them only confirms the importance of their social role, but that the National Assembly has a very responsible approach in this election in accordance with its constitutional and legal powers. At the end of the line, and Parliament, as I said, shares responsibility for this election and it is important that not only processically but also essentially we deal with the selection of candidates who will perform these responsible and serious functions in the next period, we hope in a dedicated manner. The RATEL Management Team, therefore, consists of: President, Vice-President of RATEL, three members of the Management Board. The term of office to be elected is five years and their term of office has just expired on 3 March this year, so six to seven days ago. It is necessary that by selecting the new RATEL leadership, we enable its smooth work, which we will do, hopefully, the next days, after this debate is over. In accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, the RATL authorities shall elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government on the basis of a public competition implemented. According to the legal procedure, the competent ministry is the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications and Tourism. The competition has taken place, and the government has established a proposal for candidates for these significant duties. This proposal is before us today. With the proposal for a government decision, we have also been presented with biographies of proposed candidates from whom, according to the SPS parliamentary group, their work experience and career achievements are seen. The biography is envious, there is experience in the profession of all candidates, I am talking about RATL candidates, and I believe that if elected, it will justify the trust that Parliament will, hopefully, show them in the voting day, and that is why our citizens show confidence. The kind of mirror of function is also RATEL in a very sensitive electronic media sector. The second document we are talking about today, so the second topic we are talking about today, and it is about your ministry, Mrs Popovic, we need to decide on the election of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. According to the new Corruption Prevention Act, adopted in 2019 and implemented since September 2020, the authorities of the Anti-Corruption Agency are: the Director and the Council of the Agency. The Council of the Agency is a second-degree body of the Agency. Its powers are to decide on complaints against decisions made by the Director, to oversee the work of the Director and to monitor his property situation. So it's kind of an internal control of the director's work. The council also takes the principle of law enforcement, which is also of great importance and importance. We are today, therefore, speaking, and the next days when the debate is over, we should choose five members of the Agency's Council. According to the legal procedure, members of the agency's council are elected on the basis of a competition called by the justice ministry. It is carried out by the Judicial Academy, as my colleague used to say, which is conducting a selection of candidates based on met conditions and testing. The proposal for candidates who have met the ministry's conditions in the form of the proposal sends it to the National Assembly, which is also respected in terms of procedure. So in the proposal ahead of us, we see more candidates than the number chosen. Meanwhile, unfortunately, someone died. One of the candidates, as you said, has given up. It is important that candidates who choose to be professional, that is, the SPS opinion, possess special knowledge, professional integrity, be high moral, be honest. So they have to be worthy of function and do it on morals, answers and, above all, legal ways. According to the résumés proposed, we've seen the biographies of all candidates, it appears to be serious candidates. Among them are those with a lot of experience. Some are famous, some are less famous to the public. No one, or those candidates who are less well-known to the public, should be ignored, because they have their candidates, they have certain qualities, and we believe they can also successfully perform these functions. Among them are, I say, younger candidates who should also be given a chance, because the system is being built and preserved by the transfer of knowledge and experience. This enables continuity in work, which is for the Agency, which is an independent state anti-corruption body of exceptional importance and importance. That's why a merger of those who already have experience in the Agency's work and some new personnel we're going to choose in a few days, I hope on Thursday, the best. Of course, the priority of all priorities is the moral integrity of the candidates we're talking about today. counterpart Mihajlovic spoke a little bit, and I think she's quite right, I agree with her, part of the responsibility, you have most of the responsibility as minister of justice, but one part of the responsibility has a National Assembly that should choose candidates. The Judicial Academy did its part of the job and forwarded the list of candidates with the results of the tests they passed. It wouldn't be bad, perhaps, if in the next period of time you thought about the proposal of your colleague Natasha that the National Assembly through the resolution boards also had the opportunity to talk to the candidates, although there is one part of the responsibility throughout the process, although I repeat, the process that has been defined, in fact, the process that was done in the previous period for us there is absolutely nothing controversial about it. But just in the period ahead of us, it wouldn't be bad for you to think about this proposal. I would take this opportunity, this debate on the Agency's staff to draw attention again to the importance of fighting corruption and organised crime, and thus to the importance of the function of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, because in its jurisdiction it is an important segment, which is a record and control of public officials' assets, preventing the accumulation of public functions and preventing conflicts of interest by performing more public functions. Therefore, all information on public officials is completely transparent, including data on the assets and how that property was acquired. These days, the Law on the Origin of Assets that we adopted a few days ago begins to apply. At one of the previous sessions, we discussed this law. Also, the Law on Combating Organized Crime is in force. And not only do we have the legal basis to face the most difficult forms of organised crime and corruption, but there is a firm commitment and political will of Serbia's leadership to deal with all forms of organised crime. The latest developments and the criminal behaviour of organised crime groups that found a foothold in many spheres of society, and most of all, they nestled in some sports organisations, caused decisive, uncompromising and effective action by the authorities, where no one was or will be spared responsibility, whatever function he was in, and whatever function he was in. The National Security Council, other security authorities, and thus the Anti-Corruption Agency will have an even greater obligation and responsibility to detect and enforce the law of all corrupt forms of conduct and criminal acts. How far organized crime depends, of course, on the state's determination to counter it organisedly. Our country has shown, and these days it has proved concretely that there are no privileges, there will be no concessions, no selective actions, and it has shown its determination to protect both the state and the citizens. We have spoken several times so far, I will use your presence and repeat the clear position of the SPS parliamentary group, so the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent authorities, the competent institutions of works, and not in words show that one of the six key principles and principles on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is formed is just fighting organised crime and corruption. It devalues the attempt by all those representatives, so-called. The elite opposition, which when the President of the Republic spoke about key tasks, the objectives of which will be addressed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, said it was a seasonal performance, that it required an independent judiciary, here's the work saying it wasn't a seasonal performance, and you know, those who chose judges and prosecutors through their local party committees say. They give themselves the right to speak of an independent court in Serbia. Once again, we want to repeat, and in particular to point out that this is a serious blow to organised crime in Serbia, and that the MUP, that the BIA, that the prosecution of organised crime, has done an excellent part of the job. We hope that, and we are convinced, that even during the period ahead, they will continue to do their job as they have done so far. In this way, Serbia shows both its readiness and its ability to, above all, feel Serbia's citizens are safe. No one is stronger than the state. This, therefore, is definitely an account at all costs and the reckoning only confirms the courage and the president of Serbia, the entire government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the competent authorities and the competent institutions. So here things are completely clear. When we sublime and look at everything, I do not, of course, insist, and it is impossible for you to give us the details, and of course, we do not insist on it, it is on competent authorities and competent institutions, Serbia is governed by the rule of law in which the competent authorities and competent institutions function. We believe in the work of competent authorities and competent institutions. We can only talk about it when the competent authorities, the competent institutions give the final word, the final position. But I want to present certain qualifications that I think are fully visible. So there's one thing that's very clear here, the constitutional order has been violated. You correct me if I'm wrong about something. The constitutional order has been violated, it is unimaginable that 1,572 times the president of the Republic, who has been legitimately elected in direct elections, is being followed by his family, with only one clear goal, so I point out this, because of the goal that he wanted to achieve. What's the point? First of all, Serbia's destabilisation and goal is to disrupt Serbia's stability, as the president is a factor in Serbia's political stability. So, a strong, economically stable Serbia, who thinks for itself, has its own position, Serbia that leads a decisive and responsible fight in the defence of national and state interests, Serbia, which today is a symbol of new values in the region and a stability factor in the region, Serbia that leads an independent foreign policy and, of course, will not go into conflict and will not spoil relations with traditionally friendly states, because, excuse me, in a period of covid, EU representatives can be angry, but these are facts, in a period of covid, when it was most difficult, in March of the month, Serbia could rely on two things. The first thing is their own resources, and the second thing is just a relationship with traditionally friendly states. We have no reason to spoil our relationship with China or Russia, but we want good relations with the United States. It seems to me that, when I talk about the US and the EU, there are great challenges and great temptations ahead of us. It's nice when you get a card, but it's not nice when you compare a New Year's card from the president of the United States to a card that the president of Serbia received last year. The previous year is about normalising relations, which Serbia advocates, for dialogue, to come up with a compromise and fair solution through dialogue, and this year we get a congratulations on mutual recognition. Which wasn't a topic for a moment. So I'm saying this for one simple reason to point out once again the challenges and the temptations that Serbia will face in the next period of time. In this continuing, determined, non-selective fight against crime and corruption, of course you will always have the support of the SPS parliamentary group, of course the entire parliament has shown support in this fight. We talked a few days ago about a very important law, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets, and that, I repeat, is a clear confirmation of political will. I always stress political will, as Europeans constantly remind us that there is no political will in Serbia to deal with organised crime. Here is the clear political will that Serbia wants and that Serbia is accounted for continuously and resolutely and unselectively, uncompromisingly with organised crime. So what is essential for Serbia on one side is the goal of zero tolerance when we talk about corruption, and on the other hand we have one strong synergy normative and practical in the fight against corruption. I don't know where the nerves of individuals came from when we passed the Law of Origin of Property. I guess there's a good reason for that. I don't want to prejudge, there's the authorities, there's you, there's the competent institutions, but they won't be here, they shouldn't be scared, there won't be selective targets here, and it's not the topic of the law that we've been talking about making room for politically persecuting political unsuspecting. No, here's the thing that they're afraid of a regulated and legal state in which the institutions of the system will function. If the president of Serbia says -- I want to be the first subject to check, and if we all in this room say we want to be the subject of verification, today the daily press says there's some owner of "Krika," is that what you call a co-worker, you're in the media, "Krik" right? This "Krik" was us last year, I served as vice president along with Mr. Arsic, Marinkovic, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic was parliament speaker, so we were questioned along the way. What did they get with that? Were we afraid? No, we told them -- here you go, we don't mind. Where'd they get the fear? Unless there's something we don't know right now. Also, the National Assembly contributes by selecting judges who are first elected to the judicial office a few days ago and before them is a very important job. You know, when we first elected judges, I said I wasn't a lawyer, and then I said that Professor Alexander Martinovic would be a kind of lawyer, certainly speak better than me and my esteemed colleague, Tom Phila. But, you know, when someone says that justice is slow, but available, I consider it primarily an ultimate idea. It is essential that justice is effective and swift. That's what we expect from the Ministry of Justice, from the competent authorities and the competent institutions. I have already said the way the functions were chosen, in which those who speak today about an independent judiciary were elected by judges, elected prosecutors with stamps on one side of the party's president, and the party's seal, on the other hand, signed by the president of the municipality, and it was an independent judiciary. So, off the record, I'm only going to give one piece of information, I'm not going to talk about the past today, because I think from the past many times since I've said that we're not living, but we need to learn to affirm what's good, to look at the present and build the foundations of a new future. But from the past, only one piece of information. Unofficially, before 2000 and in 2000, information and assessments of the US and UK institutes were known that by 2000 the state was stronger in the situation of controlling the underworld and in 2000, the underground was controlled by the state. Well, then, after all that happened after 2000, follow that successful call for judicial reform, where out of 3,000 judges, 900 judges are out of a job. I'm finishing up, Mr. Orlic, thank you. As regards a concrete proposal relating to your ministry, we will, of course, take another look at all the candidates you have submitted and vote for those who deserve attention and who we think will do this job the best way. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3815	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3816	Thank you for your previous presentation. I just want to correct you. You said – constitutional order in the Republic of Serbia has been violated. Luckily, he's not damaged. There was an attempt to bring down the constitutional order and it was prevented by the phenomenal action of our security services. The procedures under way are ongoing, investigative and investigative, related to organised crime, which aimed not only at committing certain acts of corruption and which are luxuriant, but obviously all points to their common desire to bring down constitutional order. Once again, I would like to thank all the security services involved in the harsh and determined interception of these criminal activities. I can't tell you about the details, given that the details of the investigation are only available with the permission of a special prosecutor, which I don't have at the moment, so please don't ask me about any further details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3817	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group "Alexandar Vucic – For Our Children", Nevena Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3818	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the agenda today, we have a proposal for a decision to elect a president, a deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services and a selection of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I would remind you all first that RATEL was created in 2005 and that the main tasks are to preserve the competitiveness of the market, improve the quality of work and improve the level of protection of end-users. When we talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency, the topic we're talking about today is preventing corruption. It is a topic that is highly positioned on our country's list of priorities, which is also pointed out by President Aleksandar Vukic himself, when he announced a sharp and unscrupulous fight against corruption and organised crime. If we were to now create a parallel between Serbia by 2012 and Serbia today, this Serbia used to choke on crime and corruption. It was a state that not only did not fight, but it nurtured and supported crime and corruption. You then had corruption at the highest state level by people who were supposed to fight those phenomena. The best example for this is a man who was once a minister in the government, and then the mayor profited through his private companies to the point where he practically took advantage of the position he was in, specifically, at a time when he was in the most responsible state functions. It is, and it is clear to all of us, about Dragan Gilas. Crime and corruption are phenomena against which the state should fight, not phenomena that the state should cultivate, cultivate and develop. That's the kind of Serbia she used to be. Today Serbia is a serious state dealing with such phenomena. The best example and indicator of all this is the arrest of a recent criminal group. It's a serious criminal group that I can freely say is more cruel than the notorious Earth Clan that we believed to be the most monstrous and brutal thing that has worked and existed on our premises. They were brutally killing, torturing, and right there you see the dimensions of the evil that Serbia faced. What's good is that the investigation is progressing at a good pace, that we're constantly getting new knowledge and evidence, thus just expanding and ensuring an investigation. These people have been pressured by the power of evidence, but all of this has been followed by a constant media hack and barbaric fire, primarily against Alexander Vukic, who announced that he would fight crime and corruption sharply, but also against members of his family, by those who, while in power, co-operated closely with the people of the criminal mile. They're not in power today, but apparently they want to return to power at any cost. The force of pressure is seen primarily in the fact that sniper rifles were found, which were intended for anyone other than Alexander Vukic, since this is the man who personally declared war on the mafia. It's clear to everyone, except for those who don't want to see the real state of things practically. Let's just say, like Dragan Gilas, who has limited corruption to his throat, who has made 619 million in his private companies, right in the period he was supposed to fight against such phenomena. Today, the man in his media, along with his friends, such as the School, is constantly mocking this whole campaign and trying to disenfranchise it, and in his media he is conducting a campaign where virtually the public is forbidden to present evidence against members of the arrested criminal group. These are media that serve as a kind of media artillery in the persecution of members of the Alexander Vukic family. To understand the real seriousness of the situation, we have this information that the president of the Republic of Serbia has been tapped, what has been proven, 1.572 times. And the Home Office has evidence of that. It's even scarier that some people, criminal people within the police force, are involved in the whole story. What's important is that there's evidence, that they're being forwarded to the D.A. and that we expect in the next period of the epilogue of the entire event. All those who illegally listened to the president, who were illegally following the president and, unfortunately, did not find any dispute or incriminating evidence regarding the whole situation, are the closest tycoon and tycoon media associates in which the president of the Republic of Serbia is constantly being hacked against and against his family. I think it's a good question for RATEL, but also for the Anti-Corruption Agency, which should provide maximum support to the state in one of these situations, for representatives and one of the other agencies, since these are agencies that are practically involved in issuing permits in this country, do you ever wonder how certain cross-border channels, media services and their distributors, and by some unwritten rule they are usually the same people, are necessarily included in these processes? What's interesting is that the chase against its state of water is also on the international agenda, because it's for God's sakes to tell us about the so-called media darkness that is ruling in Serbia. It's practically just a front for them to chew up money. They only expand their empire, since they recently and officially announced that what we already knew was in their possession is in their possession, and this is about a daily newspaper, about the "Today's" tabloid. But they will continue to talk that there is media darkness in Serbia, that they have no seconds of media space. It simply coincides with common sense, if you have in mind the fact that you have such a concentration of media in the hands of just one tycoon. Again, the question for all of the agencies mentioned who deal with permits is what is legal, what is not, what should be allowed, and what is not, is that they should consider that what all these media are doing, they are doing by breaking the press codes, everything that requires a profession, elemental decency violates and violates a relationship to the truth. The real example of unfair respect and violations of the law is the use of other people's infrastructure, and we were able to see it on the SBB case, and the SBB uses the electrical energy of its users to function and deliver the cable TV signal, which it charges them. Practically, consumers whose number is connected to the SBB device pay the team’s own increased electricity bill, and wages and service for having cable TV. Certain experts have made the calculations that in 20 years SBB has thus transferred the costs directly to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who transfer the amount of 36m euros, while noting that the SBB team has avoided all those costs paid when connecting to electricity or when buying electricity. It's just part of the fake news and the affair that they're putting through their media. We have all recently witnessed how they tried to disrupt our vaccination system, where the prime minister was in a position to force her to address an extraordinary press conference and to deny which coffees nebulose and spin. You get into a situation where you have to spend and work, invest practical work, and effort, and energy to deny something that only aims at destroying and destroying every success of the Republic of Serbia. Then these same media are contradictory, and in one tycoon portal after the National Security Council session and after a press conference was held in one of the mentioned tycoon media, it is said that there is nothing of shock for Europe, in the sense that nothing important, big, significant has been said. The second portal also owned by tycoons says disturbing and embarrassing photographs have been published. It totally doesn't matter if what they're saying makes sense or not. They only have one goal, and this is a direct attack on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. In fact, such people will feel sorry for us again that there is media darkness in Serbia, and in fact they have 50% of the cable operators' markets, they have so many TVs, they have so many daily and weekly newspapers. And exactly the same will be the platform for publishing false news against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and against members of his family. In these media, photographs of the children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who were brought in, were brought into contact with the most serious criminals, and had nothing to do with them. That's how you direct the children's target to their foreheads. These are the questions you agency should be dealing with. As you can see in a country that's so serious today, which is not a private firm like someone's private firm, like it used to be, we policy-related people can see that we're doing it seriously today. But that's what you need to do seriously, both you and the agencies and the court and the prosecution, and we're really determined to get this story out to the end and there's nothing left that's unexplained and unarranged. We will show the difference that Serbia should not be anywhere near Serbia today as it once was. That hectic platform and aimless lies that don't just place so-called. The media and individuals who do nothing else in their lives except these kinds of affairs. First of all, I think of Marinika Tepic, Miroslav Aleksic, Lutovac, and I think you can continue the series on your own. These are all those on the payroll of the mentioned tycoons of the former regime. Marinika Tepic works at Dragan Djilas, an employee of the company "Multicom", while he is directly paying, while acting as some kind of party vice president. Lutovac is told by his ranks, what was once called the Democratic Party, that it is on the payroll, also mentioned tycoon. Miroslav Aleksic is already a special story since he was stamped by the state that he is the most ordinary liar for all he has said about President Vukic. Sources for all these lies are those who took part in the persecution of President Aleksandr Vukic, who were preparing a coup, and here I am referring above all to the affair of "snaps" that prepared his sniper rifle. It is very important, especially for the RATEL representatives, not to be the main and the most important thing, that Dragan Gilas spent as much as 10m euros on software that was supposed to connect all institutions in Belgrade and which practically never started working, because it was just a drop in the sea, deep down hundreds of millions of euros of everything he had for himself, but not only him but also the people who worked with him. Also, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency must not be the peak of interest, that hundreds of thousands of euros, more specifically budget money embezzled Vuk Jeremic on his expensive journeys, in luxury in various ways because it is also a drop in the sea of millions that came from white-world thieves and convicted criminals. Today, the fight against organised crime is principled and uncompromising. It goes on until the end, and we insist that it be like that because today, it depends practically on whether we have a state and what kind of state we're going to have. What is most important, primarily because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is to clarify once again what it is that we are practically defending and what we are fighting for in this situation. We are now defending our country, our Serbia, whether we will have it, whether it will exist or not. Those who try to remove Alexander Vukic and remove him physically because they have prepared a sniper because in no other way can stand in his way, they cannot politically remove him because he is a man who has never more support for the people, these same people trying to remove Alexander Vukic from us the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are trying to take away the vaccine, which is why we are the first in Europe, which is the direct credit and personal success of Alexander Vukic. They're trying to take away our economy and disrupt the economy that's so high-level thanks to Alexander Vukic, it's hundreds of thousands of new jobs. They're trying to destroy the infrastructure we've been waiting for for tens of years, and I'm thinking about both highways and railways and air traffic and all those clinical centres, health homes and all those new hospitals and national-technology parks. In other words, they're trying to take our lives. One word, they're trying to take away everything that was made and done in the Republic of Serbia, but they're trying to take away its future. If we have to choose between Serbia, which exists on one side and which is an opportunity to provide a better and secure future for our children and for money, for power, for power, for most gramistical, insatiable individuals, who are insurmountable obstacles to what they intend to accomplish, there is no dilemma there. Fair Serbia is always with its president, Alexander Vukic, and the SNS parliamentary group is always in the front row. What is important is that the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all those proposals that will best contribute to the success of this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3819	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need to pass an act on the agenda of today's session. We're continuing to report for word. The first, MP, is Master of Staff Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3820	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today the first proposal for a decision to elect a president, deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, and secondly, a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Major Anti-Corruption Agency. I will immediately say that the JS parliamentary group will support the candidates mentioned in the voting day. At the very beginning when we talk about the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, it seems to me that it is not appropriate to say again that the work of the Agency is large, it deals with public fixed telecommunications networks and services, public mobile telecommunications, regulatory roaming services, widely explains the Internet access, distribution of media content, different service packages as well as the postal services market and others. Minister, what seems to me to be a special task, not only of this agency, but I think we all talked about yesterday, there's a lot of talk in the media about it is protecting citizens. First of all, when it comes to every type of digital service, I primarily think about the Internet. As time passes, a larger number appears, to be gentle, so at this point I say, insecurity. So that's one task we really need to think about in the next period. Otherwise, when it comes to the Agency’s business, it was successful in the previous period, the fact is that in 2019 it had a profit of 90 million. Of course, it was paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would also mention, if I weren't talking about all segments of operation, but I would only mention one segment of the Agency's operation, it's postal services. We had 59 postal operators in 2019 and they provided 309 million postal services, which is about 124 services per household. This is what I say, because especially they had difficult conditions for Kovid – 19, they were also exposed to courier services, and those people who work on counters and other places. When I talk about this, I'd like to say a special accent on the co-operation of RATL and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Why do I say that? I would mention two important projects here, the first construction of a broadband communications network in rural areas and the second project "Connected School". When I'm talking about the first project, I'm not going to say anything new when I say that we JS are in favour of the even development of the village and the city. It's a good example of Jagodina, but this is what I'm saying in all segments and I'm talking about this segment that we're talking about today. I therefore fully support the construction of a broadband communications network in rural areas, which is essential for all citizens' involvement in digital society. So, on the one hand, it brings young people the possibility of modern education, and on the other hand, it gives businesses there, to say, the possibility of a better and more successful business. The project was also planned to end in 2022 and included as many as 600 settlements with about 90,000 households in the first phase. The second project of Connected Schools, which, in co-operation with the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, envisions a comprehensive improvement of information and communication infrastructure in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia. So, what are the objectives of this project? First, to curb the digital gap, raise digital literacy and raise the competitiveness of young generations and enable the growth base of IT industry. When it comes to a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I have already told the minister that JS will support these candidates in the voting day. Serbia is taking major steps forward, therefore, in all segments although you know the global crisis due to the Kovid-19 pandemic, Serbia has results in all areas, so economic growth, on the one hand, is the largest, on the other hand unemployment below 10%, on the other hand, as much as 60% of all investments coming into the region going to Serbia. So that speaks of the great trust Serbia has in the world. But in order for all of this to continue in this sense, in order for Serbia to continue to make economic progress, to pay and pensions to grow, the state must have zero tolerance for corruption. Corruption is a disease that endangers society, I say, every society in the world. It sends a strong blow to the economy and destroys the economy and creates an unstable market. On the other hand, practically a country where bribes and corruption flourish, gives a signal to investors to skip to their investment map of the country. We have to work to maximise the awareness of all citizens as far as corruption is concerned. On the other hand, institutions must be unique and powerful in solving the problems they face, not just our country, but every society in the world. At the very end, let me just say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all the proposals we had today at this debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3821	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3822	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the issue of the work and operation of independent regulatory bodies is very important for all citizens, therefore also for the Assembly, for us MPs as representatives of the people, since we also have a supervisory role in the functioning of these very important parts of the system. When it comes to the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we must say that the work and competence of this Agency is very important and important. We know that the law and provides that the bodies of this Agency and make up the Director and the Council of the Agency, whose members we are choosing today, is significant that the members of the Agency's Council have some kind of internal control in relation to the business and functioning of the director of the way it operates in different legal procedures and so on, and this is very important. On the other hand, I will agree with colleagues who previously pointed out that we as MPs do not have the opportunity to meet the proposed candidates personally, but we do leave it to the Ministry of Justice to bear that part of the responsibility and what we, as a Parliament club, will certainly support the members proposed for the Group of the Greater Agency and thus expect that, adequately, professionally, in principle, we do our part of the work. But the issue of corruption is a question that literally concerns every society in the country. Today, we do not have a country in the world where there is no corruption, and that is something that is a fact, but the countries differ in percentage terms in terms of corruption and spheres, in general, the societies in which corruption is set. It is a problem that is layered and where only one agency, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, is not enough, but needs the entire society to be united in the fight against corruption. It will be achieved in several ways. First, it is necessary to have a very good coordination between the competent authorities of the institutions in the fight against corruption, and in this it must be principled and consistent, which means that anyone in this system chain has a different view of corruption or that it has had a tolerance to corruption that will create further problems in society. What I find very important at this point is to raise awareness in society about corruption. That's very important, because when you have the fact that in some society corruption is present in all spheres of society, it sort of, unfortunately, becomes part of everyday life and part of normal phenomena. We must not allow this in any way and the very competent institutions, in general, through media content, all of us must act together in a way that first points to corruption, to direct damage to the economic well-being of the country and that corruption will only lead to the general standard of living of all citizens being lower, on the one hand. On the other hand, citizens must also know that any kind of participation in the very chain of corruption, in fact, a criminal act and that it must not be intolerant to itself, to allow itself to at times at certain times speed up perhaps not even knowing or indirectly certain chain of corruption, and to become something that is normal. So raising awareness among citizens about corruption's harmfulness is something that is very important. On the other hand, local self-government is a very important link in that chain. For what? Well, right in local self-governments, unfortunately, citizens are mostly and face the problem of corruption and organised crime and all the other social deviations that exist in society and are just about citizens, to say, smaller communities are sometimes more exposed to these negative influences than perhaps in some larger system, where determination in the fight against these social and social deviations is much more decisive. In this regard, local self-government must also work much more to prevent and combat corruption itself. This will primarily be through one open, transparent work, openness to citizens in terms of first budgets, spending budgets through one, to say, a rational and responsible attitude towards the budget, but also a transparent relationship with regard to the availability of information. In order to bring closer to presenting the problems that exist in smaller communities, I will simply point out, for example, the fact that alarming rights must at one point be highly respected and protected in terms of when a citizen is forced to point out corruption, certain malfeasances that he simply, adequately, must be protected and acted legally. We had a fact that in Novi Pazar, a certain activist, a citizen came out with a series of information about various malfeasances in local self-government. After that, he was beaten in a local cafe in broad daylight. So these are things that can't be tolerated. On the other hand, a fresher example is just from Sjenica, where a certain group of political inexperiences, apparently, kidnapped, kidnapped the head of a school and harassed him, usurped his rights, and it seems to me that there was an adequate reaction from the authorities. It's been announced, literally, by the M.O.P., taking over jurisdiction. However, in such cases insecureness must be shown and a decisive struggle not only in Belgrade as a centre, but also in smaller areas such as the towns and municipalities of Sandzak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3823	Thank you. Not all MPs who signed up for the word are currently in the O.R. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is kind of a subject for me to join with REM. So, we have corruption, RATEL, REM, electronic communications, Solak in some kind of escape, unregistered media using electronic communications on the way from Serbia to Luxembourg, from Luxembourg to Slovenia, and then back to the microphone of Yugoslavia Cosic and so is our media scene. RATEL is very important for the freedom of the media, but that freedom, every freedom is limited by law. Today we have a company that has sued the state of Serbia, and this company is called United Group and United Group has a daughter of United Media, United Media has "Adrija News Sarl". Well, there's United Media and the famous Gilas's "Darrekt Media", so there's Cast Media, which deals with advertising quite unauthorizedly. In the re-transmissioned programme, it broadcasts domestic commercials, in an allegedly re-transmissioned programme, so it inserts and terminates programmes in real cross-border channels, inserting ads, and all this seems to be with the REM explanation that it is an alleged technical sense of re-emission by sending a signal through a cable from Belgrade to Luxembourg, from Luxembourg to Ljubljana, from Ljubljana to Belgrade, and that rounding of signals, as they say from REM, and RATEL seems to be fine with it, the Corruption Prevention Agency only observes poor MPs, although our job has even worse... So, all of this is being observed, and the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption does not see the obvious phenomenon of corruption, especially in REM, and perhaps RATEL and I believe that these are huge sums, since the business of Šolakov is worth, according to estimates of Bi-Si Partners, about 2.6 billion euros. So, we don't have a problem, in my opinion, with the opposition, we have a problem with people who represent themselves as opposition, and they represent Solakov's business, which costs about 2.6 billion, and annually brings income mainly in Serbia of 500m euros. We're the ones who left the topic behind. So the Anti-Corruption Agency doesn't think it's a subject. I ask – who controls the controller? For example, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and this Regulatory Body for Electronic Communications should be the controller. Do our media abuse this kind of freedom, or are our laws registered or perform as pirate media, using electronic communications quite illicitly? With this in mind, to remind the SBB, owned by the United Group, whether those owners of about 30 cross-border channels, which are mainly pirated, virtual channels, which here allegedly re-emitting the programme and are not subject to registration, are not subject to taxis or REM, or RATEL, or SOKOJ. So they are mostly supported by domestic media and then you have people who receive salaries thanks to the obligations of domestic electronic media and the salaries and incomes of this REM Council, i.e. the Secretary-General, the Executive Director and all of them who bring the school money, receive the salary exclusively thanks to the domestic media that finance REM, which seems to be getting some kind of compensation, because they obviously work for Solak. When I reminded you from the SNS that Judita Popovic was a mistake in the election, that she was not an expert in electronic media, that she was a politician, that she was in LDP, that she was vice president of the Assembly, that she was a MP, then I was more qualified and independent than she was. Her opponent was Dragisa Kovacevic, and I thought it was a mistake to choose, let's say, Judith Popovic as a member of the REM Council, because I assumed that she would quickly fit in with the business that was being initiated and that was expanded during the ruling of the party she belonged to. Anyway, let's say Goran Petrovic. It's a man who's answered me more than once. Once even wrote, there was a Todorovic, executive director... They write to me that they will no longer answer my questions – how we allow this wild pirate broadcast, which they allegedly consider to be re-emissioning. I asked around, read a little press, Goran Petrovic, who answered me several times, behold, miracles, in Kragujevac, there in 1997, along with Šolak and Nenad Jankovic, called Nasha cowboy, founded KDS, which is the predecessor of the SBB. Imagine then Solaka and his allegedly re-imposed programmes were controlled by Nesa cowboy and Goran Petrovic, who together founded the firm in Kragujevac while Verko, Eurolove, Veroljub Stevanovic, was in power in 1997? Now, imagine, a goat keeps the cabbage and yet her goat's goat or sister controls it? That's almost impossible. The product of that is that the media is not free. Mostly all these pirate media find themselves free, and I find them too free. So they're not registered. I got a response from the Luxembourg regulator, I got a response that those media are registered in Luxembourg, but they're not broadcasting the program. How does someone re-air a program that isn't broadcast? Then, Madam Minister, since you've been to BIA, you can also check, N1 has no PIB. I ask them - people, let's give me a PIB N1 television. They say - N1 television doesn't have PIB, it's not in the APR register, there's no PIB, there's no electronic media register. If someone sues for some false information, fake news, as it is called in English, if anyone sues, then they answer that N1 television cannot be a defendant, because they are not a media service provider because they are not registered in Serbia, they are already registered in Luxembourg. If you sue them in Luxembourg, they say – they are registered in Luxembourg, but they do not broadcast a programme to Luxembourg. I ask – how can something that can not be broadcast be retransmitted, because re-emissioning is at the same time taking over the program without ending, changing, inserting ads, headings, etc., reporting? N1 doesn't have a PIB. The answer was – they use the PIB “Adrija News Sarl” d.o.o. In Luxembourg, there is "Adrija News Sarl" which was allegedly founded by United Media N1, etc., by some television. But those TVs don't program there. Here, foreign television uses the program, i.e. PIB “Adrija News” d.o.o. Belgrade, as re-emitting the programme, foreign television. Wait, if you're a foreign television, how can you even use a PIB domestic company, and by chance "Adrija News" is the founder of N1 television, in that situation where one firm is founded by another and the other has to have a special PIB, it cannot use the PIB of its founder. But it looks like the School can do anything, so REM can do anything. REM is a special type, RATEL is as separate, and you have no control over these communications of electronic, or by some law, but it is so ill-written, under some law REM should order the operator, which is in this case SBB, which is in a certain way the owner of N1 television, 30 of these pirate channels, Nova S, thirteen Sport clubs, Sinai, etc. They should order the operator to shut down those alleged channels he registered in Luxembourg. RATEL could also help to identify through communication whether it is true that such a programme is not being broadcast in Luxembourg, that there is no source signal coming from Luxembourg, what the operator from Luxembourg has already responded to, and my question has been confirmed by the Slovenians, that such a programme as is being broadcast in Serbia is not being broadcast in Slovenia. So he can't be re-routed here. Now these N1 TV guys can knock that I'm against independent free media, as they claim. The opposition media is not independent media. So they are opposition media and they can have any kind of editorial policy. They can write and talk and broadcast whatever they want, visually, text, whatever they want, they can attack the ruling majority, but they should register. They should re-emission the programme, or broadcast it in Luxembourg, and they do not broadcast it there, because then they would have some obligations they had to avoid in Serbia, then they would have these obligations in Luxembourg. In Luxembourg, everyone must have a PIB. Imagine now, ma'am, that I am in India registering 30 alleged electronic media that won't broadcast a program for the general public. Broadcasting isn't about me playing on my computer, so, like, I'm re-emitting it somewhere now. No, broadcasting is a service of media that goes to the general public, so, for all those who want to see it. Imagine me registering 30 channels. And now I'm going to Paris, I'm going to London, I'm going to Berlin, I'm going to Rome, I'm going to rent some space and I'm supposed to re-emission a program that I'm not broadcasting here and attack, let's say, in the name of media freedom to attack McCron, Merkel, their ruling party, etc. Imagine how much they would allow me to re-emitting the program there. Very quickly they would have determined, their regulators, very quickly they would have determined that I was lying, and how much punishment would be paid by me or by the state, which helped such a situation, I can only imagine. Instead of suing as a state of them, they're all on my two-year objections to that kind of re-emission, we've allowed Solak to launch international arbitration because he's allegedly damaged. Knowing these international arbitrations, that he has a technique that the state cannot use, because everything has to go through public procurement and he has to go white, while there are various possibilities, such as these in our REM, which is an independent regulatory body. They seem to be independent only of the state and the ruling majority, but the School and Gilas are certainly not independent, nor is Nasha cowboy. Yeah, our cowboy's been transferred to RTS, no longer in REM. There was a secretary there, so they moved him, Solak replaced him, put his Todorovic on, and sent his Nash cowboy to RTS to keep an eye on his business at RTS so he could take over the series, etc. Anyway, the School's empire was created on RTS, on domestic media, on the exploitation of Telekom, power grids, etc. Two, three years I've been warning about that. No one found the power to, say, launch an investigation into money laundering, because all the subscription or, say, an investigation into sports transfers they have no right to, because, by law, the most important sports events can broadcast televisions that cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, have access to the antenna, etc., which is not the case with them. But these sports transfers to sports clubs bring new subscribers, bring extra ads, etc., and that advertising market that they illegally take, inserting ads into allegedly re-imposed programs, which is legally prohibited, they obtain revenues and thus take bread from regular televisions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which reduces their freedom, because they are then dependent on competitions of local self-government because they do not have enough revenue from commercials, because their advertising revenues have been taken by Solak and Gilas and their team. Imagine a shoemaker, for example, I am a shoemaker, Martinovic is doing a shoe shop service and I open next to him. He registered his in Serbia, I come there, I bring some solution from Luxembourg and I say – well, I provide for this solution, he pays taxes, etc., I pay nothing. So, automatically, I'm taking his bread. That's the way it is with these media. Those who are unregistered are broadcasting ads, taking a piece of bread to domestic channels, and so domestic channels are reducing their freedom because they are dependent solely on the money they give, in this case not the state, I think, there are competitions of local self-government, right, Mr. Marinkovic, and then these local televisions, each representing their boss there. So we get these leaders who have no control at all, these municipal, local, who have no control over it, because the media that would locally criticise their work, right, Mr. Martinovic, would end up in a competition without those revenues. So we can make some bosses, volunteers, etc. Many people who talk about freedom of the media do a lot of things against freedom of the media, work for Solak's three planes, for 500 million revenues that are pumped out of subscription and advertising revenues. Do you know how? Because domestic channels, including RTS, Pink, which are the most visible, let's say, their ratings or visibility, however you like, is on these SBBs, etc. 80% of viewers watch only these programs. These domestic TVs don't get any compensation from the subscription collected by SBB, so they use their product for free. It's like I would take out my agricultural products on the market and give the buyer away for free, and the buyer, for example, charges his products, which he collects more expensive, because mine gets free of charge. So this, they get free products from national channels and local channels that they release on SBB, and then they pay N1, New S, Sports clubs in Luxembourg, throw out money in Luxembourg. Now I ask you, I ask all of us – how can SBB, or United Media, United Group, pay for services that do not exist? If there is no broadcast in Luxembourg, and that says the Luxembourg regulator, I have been asking for years – how can someone pay for such a service? It's called taking capital from a company or it's called money laundering, tax evasion, etc. When I ask which is their PIB N1 television, they say – no, they use the PIB “Adria News”. ‘Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade" in loss, a ghastly loss, serve only so that they can release salaries or you don't know what they're for, mostly owe. We've been hearing for days how we're against freedom of the media. Here, on 9 March, I added the existing provisions of the Law on Electronic Media to the clarifications of what REM and RATEL should do in the event that what I say is happening, and the law already states what broadcasting is, re-emission, which is not happening. I've only explained what REM and RATEL's obligations are to do to order the operator to remove unregistered channels, whoever they are, and allow the media to throw it out, and if they don't throw out that RATL and REM along with the powers that the operator has temporarily shut down until they act on their order. I also wrote down penalties for members of the REM Council who have higher salaries, or monthly fees than they are MPs, that they are obliged to comply with the legal obligations, and if they do not do so, they must pay the appropriate fine because they did not comply with the law. I hope that the ruling majority, whose fear I understand, because these noises, N1 television, the spokeswoman, does not have the biggest income, is the biggest revenue "Sport clubs" and "Grand TV". That's where the most income comes from sports and entertainment, from commercials. They are only megaphones to be blasphemed, so if the government starts to enforce this law, no, they do it because we are yelling at power. So it's the guards, the guards' dogs, allegedly. The watchdogs of Šolak's business are: "New S", N1, because they serve to make noises, noises, noises, to draw attention to how the government is against them, because they criticise power, so now the power has set out to avenge them. No, the tax law and the e-media law must be respected. Lately, the real cross-border channels are SNN, BBC etc., even HRT, "Rai Uno", "Rai duo" etc. These are real cross-border channels. They were the ones I spoke of purely pirated, but there are some that are cross-border, but suddenly a group came along that throws in commercials. Let's say "Fox flies", Fox channels, "Discovers", "Histori", suddenly advertises in cross-border channels, which is prohibited by the Law on Electronic Media. The Law on Advertising in Article 27 says they can't put in commercials from foreign television recasting the program here, which they do. Suddenly you see 900 seconds in one film, only in one film on "Fox fly", I counted, 900 seconds that's just 10 euros, that's 9,000, times 30 days, that's 270 thousand, times 12 months, that's over three million, in one movie. Imagine, there are several Fox channels, "Discoveres", "Histori", and they emit 10,000 unauthorized seconds. After 10 euros, 100,000 times 365 days, 36m euros are taken to end cross-border television programmes. We were supposed to sue them, not them. Since we haven't sued them, it's obvious that they've singled out, like they did in Brussels, some conference, so it was allowed, which wasn't allowed for RTS, to own a show of technique and connections, right, Mr. Martinovic, to separate production and broadcasting from technology. Afterwards, Šolaku was allowed to own, operate and have his own channels, and he even realized not to register them here, but to fictitiously register them in Luxembourg. He doesn't pay anything there, he doesn't pay anything here. We can't sue him, the money pumps out by paying for services that don't exist. I'm asking-- how much more? Let's sue them once and give this people back the money he took. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3825	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic, as always, for the inspirational presentation. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3826	The Honorable Vice President, a respected minister with associates, honourable MPs, today's assembly search is dedicated to the organ selection of two very important independent bodies, or organs. The National Assembly should elect a president, a deputy, a president and three members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, i.e. RATEL and members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services is a regulatory body with important work in the fields of electronic communications, postal services and information security. The Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is an independent state body tasked with preventing corruption. As stated by our authorised representative on their work and the results achieved, we spoke a little earlier when considering and adopting the 2019 report on their work. However, when it comes to human resources for such important bodies, I think this is also an opportunity to refer to the powers and results of work and social phenomena and processes associated with their work. I will take advantage of this opportunity, because we also want to highlight the importance of their role in our legal and social system, as well as the importance of the choice of people who will manage and enforce the laws. This time I would draw attention to the importance of the existence and work of the Anti-Corruption Agency in the field of systemic opposition to corruption and organised crime. The law on the prevention of corruption adopted in 2019, which began to apply in September 2020, has precisely regulated the framework of the Agency's competence. To remind you, the Agency's competence under this law is to monitor the implementation of strategic anti-corruption documents, then to keep registers of public officials, records and control of public officials' assets, to prevent conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions, especially if the official performs several public functions. This part of the Agency's activity is important because the control of the property of the functioner and the transparency of the property data and the way it is acquired confirms that we are a legal state in which we cannot be privileged and protected and no one can be above the law. Although we sometimes seem to be dealing with marginal matters, the Agency needs to do its job and has to do very responsibly. This avoids any possibility of corruptive behaviour, but on the other hand, the transparency of data prevents malicious and unargued attacks on public authorities. In that sense, it is a very important choice of personnel to manage these bodies. Under the new Act of the Council of the Agency, the five-member body elected by the National Assembly, which is essentially a second-degree body, because it oversees the work of the Director and decides by appeal to the decisions of the Director. The council should therefore make up professional and respected people with high moral integrity. I believe that's the kind of person among the candidates. In addition to these Agency powers, I would particularly underline that the Agency has the authority to investigate the state of corruption, analyse the risks of corruption and make up reports with recommendations on risk mitigation. I see this as a significant preventive action in preventing corruption, which in every society, even in ours, poses a great danger, we can say, by healthy society. Corruption, which literally means bribery, bribery implies illegal use of social and state positions and power to gain its own benefit. Corruption involves various activities, including bribery, embezzlement and money laundering. Corruption is also the purchase of expensive gifts, in return to obtain certain services or solve a problem. In order to have a prominent, powerful, or exploited familiarity with an irregular way of solving a problem, society is particularly affected by the so - called society. political corruption that occurs when a state official or person employed in the state or public sector resorts to corruption, or public function abuses to obtain personal benefit. It's not easy to fight corruption effectively. Why? Because it's hard to obtain evidence about corruption, because most of the corruption stores are performed without witnesses. All the weight of fighting corruption does not mean that it should not be fought. A well-organised rule of law and its competent authorities never give up fighting corruption and organised crime. The state's attitude towards this social evil also has Serbia. That proves our legislation as well. Serbia has passed more laws that are comprehensively treating both corruption and organised crime and money laundering, but not only laws, Serbia has proved this to be a firm determination for Serbia's leadership, led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to face all corruption affairs, criminal groups, trade, influence and other forms of crime, which currently occupys the entire public of Serbia. In that sense, I want to support all the activities of the leadership and the authorities in this not-so-slight struggle, precisely because of the facts that I have stated, that the ways of corruption and corrupt people are not easy, but that our country that is serious is not going to fall into this, and all the activities taken are talking about there will be no double arches and will be the same before the letter of the law. I believe in the good outcome of this fight, because the objectives of organized crime are clear, it is clear that these individuals and organised groups to the state and society do not care, that they are not the worlds of anyone who distributes drugs in the streets and in sports events, they are neither about sports nor about the health of the nation, they are about money that they get in an illegal way, and they want to bring into legal flows, and they wash both money and conscience. The truth is, unfortunately, that corruption has existed since the world and the century, but that's no reason not to treat corruption. That's exactly what our country and leadership do in a decisive way. The Serbian Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the two important independent bodies' election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3827	Thank you. If anyone meets the Messenger of Glisic, let him remind him that he has applied for his word, we expect him in the O.R. He's got a word for it. Slavenko Unkovic. You have a word. Time remaining for the parliamentary group three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3828	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, after a few months we are talking again about corruption problems as a global phenomenon, if and the mechanisms we need to prevent corruption from being effective. We define corruption as abuse of official or social status or influence in the public or private sector in order to gain personal benefit or benefit for other persons. Corruption is a phenomenon that undermines the rule of law, endangers human rights and negatively affects the country's economic development. Therefore, the fight against corruption is the most important task for the development of democratic society. In its six-point programme, the Serbian government particularly stressed the decisive fight against organised crime and corruption. A systematic fight against corruption implies that it cannot be just some and several institutions, but simply all the institutions of this country should be involved in the fight against corruption. The new Corruption Prevention Act, which entered into force on 1 September last year, is a roof, preventive, anti-corruption regulation that strengthens the role and capacities of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The main objectives of the new law are to protect public interest, reduce the risk of corruption, strengthen the integrity and responsibilities of public authorities and officials. The adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act established a normative framework, in line with international standards in the area, primarily with country groups' recommendations at the Council of Europe to fight corruption, known as GRECO. The objective is to strengthen national mechanisms to prevent and combat corruption in accordance with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for Chapter 23. This will be achieved by strengthening transparency, efficiency among national institutions, strengthening capacity for prevention, strengthening capacity to combat corruption, effective investigations, prosecutions and judicial processes. According to the corruption perception index, Serbia is not progressing enough in this area, although we have all anti-corruption rules, the biggest problem, as well as in all other segments of society, law enforcement and regulations. Citizens recognize the negative impact of corruption on society and place it in several major problems, but are not fully aware of the concrete consequences of corruption on citizens' lives. According to some studies, only one in five citizens are aware of the negative consequences resulting from corruption. New legal solutions make for an extended competence and strengthened independence of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Control of property and political income, preventing the accumulation of functions and conflicts of interest, reporting those who abuse their functions for political purposes are just some of the Agency's tasks. Today, we are talking about the selection of members of the Agency's Council who represent the second-degree body of this independent institution. All candidates who applied to the public competition passed a test assessing their professional skills, knowledge, skills as candidate integrity. This is a transparent and open procedure based on the competence and knowledge of the candidates, so we have clear and measurable criteria for cadidates. The future members of the council who will receive our support have the opportunity to contribute to an effective fight against corruption. Today, we have all the necessary legal frameworks and mechanisms to move towards a more decisive fight against the prevention of corruption, and we still need the political will and partnership of all citizens' institutions. We also have before us a proposal for a decision on the election of the president, deputy president and members of the RATL Management Board. The government has established a candidate proposal after the competition has been carried out. The proposed candidates have already performed these and similar functions and they have been checked by experts in the field of electronic communications and postal services and we expect them to justify our support. For this reason, the JS parliamentary group will support proposed personnel solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3829	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3830	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I have read this proposal for a decision on the election of a president, deputy president, members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, and since I am conducting a joint search and a proposal for candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In any case, it must be recognised when you read the biographies of the proposed candidates that they are very respectable biographies and that, in any case, individuals who are proposed today have a great responsibility, and on the other hand, a biography that can indicate that they can contribute to everything that is their jurisdiction in the future. Given that today's central topic is the fight against corruption, that more colleagues are referred to, I would also refer to a previous colleague who talked about different indices on perception and corruption and everything else that is much more important than the index of those who are being led and globally and who cannot do, to say, analyticals, depths, all of this happening in the state of Serbia in the context of the fight against corruption and announcements that are at the beginning of the government and the Republic of Serbia, not only was the announcement presented in Prime Minister Brnabic's Expoze, but one reality. Practically, right after and 100 days we saw concrete results and these results that we had not been able to see so far. It is all a matter, of course, and basic preparations in terms of the adoption of certain legal regulations, the preparation of human resources solutions, but, above all, of political will. As you know, during the past period, the representatives of quasi-opional political parties, certain, say, media or quasi-media in the Republic of Serbia that are making negative propaganda in continuity, say there is no political fight in Serbia to fight crime and corruption. How these thesis that we've been listening to for five or six years, maybe even more today can be portrayed as one lie and as a deception. It is the state of Serbia with its leadership, with Aleksandra Vukic, with the MUP that shows it has political will. This also shows to these regulators and certain agencies which are the auxiliary authorities of both the Ministry and the D.A. that such political will exists. Therefore, if I were to sit in the Prosecutor's Office and I were to be a prosecutor and watch everything that is happening in the state of Serbia, if I were to look at all the statements that its highest officials are practically giving these days, exactly all we can see these days is that the state of Serbia has shown the true political will and the results that in terms of the story of the executive authority's responsibility, which can have one executive power anywhere in the world, and we cannot mix it with the judicial authority, we cannot mix it with the work of the prosecutor or tomorrow with the judges, but what the state of Serbia should have done through its executive authority, not only did it, but also with its own political will, with its statements that it continues not only started, but that it will continue in continuity and that it will not be untouch. A comprehensive fight against crime and corruption confirms that. The co-operation between the MUP, the BIA, the VOA and everyone else, and when you find an honest prosecutor who's willing to deal with criminals, you can also get concrete results that we could see these days. Also, what we could listen to, especially these days, and back certainly for a few years, in continuity in certain media, which I don't want to mention today, to advertise them for no reason whatsoever, and we all know what the media is, are being visited by certain politicians, so they are called, who come with mahogany to criticise and to speak certain nonsense, and on the other hand to make certain accusations, slander and everything else, which is very difficult, potential crimes. And they come dead cold on certain shows and talk about it. I follow what is happening and I see that these days they are very surprised that the state of Serbia is responding, which is reacting to the prosecution, which is reacting to the MUP, when they say something, to have someone call them and listen to them at the MUP. The weight of publicly spoken words in any show, including here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the weight for each prosecutor to automatically study, call, perform potential evidence in this regard and listen to those who have said it. For the past seven days, we have so many difficult qualifications, and when the state reacts, when the MUP invites someone to an informative conversation – it's pressure. Come on, gentlemen, make up your mind, what's the pressure? Is it when you say something and say the prosecution didn't react, that it was the SNS? How is she guilty? Should he bring in the prosecutor to interfere with the work of the judicial institutions? Or is it her fault, as you say again, when she responds to your statements and you hear each other, you make statements about what kind of crimes you're talking about? Or are you afraid because you know you're making up lies, that you'll face criminal responsibility for falsely reporting a crime? You don't just have to file criminal charges, you face libel, immaterial damages in litigation proceedings. Make up your mind when it suits you. Obviously, it only suits you when the state of Serbia, when its institutions don't work, and when you talk about what you want and when you do those things that you did during the past period when you were the government, when you were the regime here in the Republic of Serbia, when no one was responsible for anything. The state of Serbia has shown determination, its institutions have shown determination and this kind of determination in the fight against crime and corruption will continue in the next period of time. As I have already applied to speak, I want to say some things about electronic media and everything else, what has been a context in the past time period not only here in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the region. Speaking today, I must also commend our leadership, above all in this general immunisation, the fight against the crown of the virus and the acquisition of a huge number of vaccines, especially to convey the praises, congratulations and good wishes I received from my friends from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Sarajevo, which there are countless and who thanked us all in Serbia, and above all to Mr Alexander Vukic, whom they were not able to, unfortunately, all of them to see in Sarajevo and to thank. This is exactly the opposite of all that we could, unfortunately, hear from some BiH officials, primarily Foreign Minister Bisera Turkovic, who said, imagine that Serbia's donation of 10,000 vaccines to "Astra Zenek" is cheap and unquality vaccines. It's something that, of course, these media that we talked about earlier, which are controlled by opposition politicians, no one has submitted that statement. But what is more important, which is also not transmitted, imagine, after such a fine message and everything Mr. Vukic said in Sarajevo, to get such disqualification, not from anyone but from any foreign minister, what Bisera Turkovic and Sarajevo forgot to say – two days after visiting Mr. Alexander Vukic in Sarajevo, Borut Pahor, the president of Slovenia, also announced a donation of 4,800 vaccines, and imagine which vaccines – "Astra Zeneka", and no one from Sarajevo said they were non-quality and cheap vaccines. So much for that hypocrisy. So much for how wrong they are that Serbia is making progress and why humane has treated its neighbours. Unfortunately, we also have such inscriptions in the media in Croatia. Here, the "Evening List" has said so many ugly words to Serbia's leadership about President Aleksandr Vukic, that you cannot repeat it. They are in their frustration because they have chosen the path, the dynamics they have chosen, the conditions they have received and which no one has received from the Republic of Croatia to join the EU and are now complaining because they have defined themselves as such. They complain and complain because Serbia has managed to provide this large number of vaccines with its four-story foreign policy and is fighting hard for its health system and helping its neighbours. Serbia is a winner. Serbia is the winner for the simple reason why it gave its hands to its neighbours when it was the hardest for them. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3831	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The next reported is National MP Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3832	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today I will talk about a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We recently talked about the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption, but today I would refer to corruption as a social problem which, as well as crime, unfortunately knows no borders. So we can say that this is an evil of modern society. Corruption could be defined as one set of all punishable actions to which the holder of a certain state or social public function abuses his or her position and position as an institution in which he works to gain personal benefit. This abuse of the situation can be such that it damages the public interest to such a degree that it undermines citizens' confidence in society and the state itself. Therefore, corruption involves abuse of public authority confidence to gain personal benefit. Corruption is a phenomenon as old as one country and thus a struggle for its suppression and lasts so long. We can say that corruption is a complex phenomenon and that its potential carriers are very much. In this great fight of our country and society against corruption and organised crime, a serious and responsible task is precisely the Anti-Corruption Agency, which, by its name and its powers, causes great expectations of citizens. This regulatory body is an independent, anti-corruption body dealing primarily with the control of the property and incomes of politicians, preventing and piling up functions and preventing conflicts of interest. The Agency's work is controlled by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through the review of annual reports on the work it also elects and members of the council, as one of the Agency's authorities is also called under the new law. The agency is elected by the majority of MPs and the law provides that a member of the Council cannot be a member of a political party or of a political entity and is subject to all obligations and prohibitions relating to public officials. Also, a member of the council cannot be a person who has been punished for an act that makes him unworthy of performing this public function and, as is known, the term of office of the member takes five years. Only the existence of this anti-corruption legislative authority in Serbia says that we are a mature society ready to face corruption through which large amounts of money can be poured out by citizens of Serbia. Given that today, for the first time in line with the new Corruption Prevention Act, we choose agencies, bigger to prevent corruption, I would also look back a little on their biographies. What I could see, all candidates have a professional career in the judiciary, and a certain experience in performing the functions of members of the Anti-Corruption Committee which qualify them for the successful exercise of the public office of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I would also refer to the fact that out of 18 proposed candidates, 50% of women are women, which confirms that women are very committed and responsible for public authority in addition to that, I noticed that the candidate list is a combination of youth and experience and I would point out that one of the candidates is my fellow citizen, born Nisli. By taking up office as new members of the Major Anti-Corruption Agency, they have an important social task and responsibility in creating and preserving the rule of law, which is certainly preventing all types of corruption, corruption through the control of property and preventing conflicts of interest of all public officials. It is therefore important that future members of the Council, apart from the formal legal conditions which they have met, be persons of integrity, high moral values, responsible and impartial, worthy of the performance of this extremely responsible duty. We believe in them and those elected today will have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3833	Thank you, Mrs. Pavicevic. Last presentation in this part of the session, MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3834	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a topic that is current and that will certainly be current in the next period when it comes to the development of the Republic of Serbia, our further progress, the modernisation of the state, therefore a uncompromising and unscrupulous fight against corruption, a policy that President Aleksandar Vukic outlined when he became prime minister in 2014 and for what he today has the support of the vast majority of Serbian citizens, given that currently over 60% of people support his policy and support everything he has done together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and his party, therefore SNS, in the field of economic development, political development and geopolitical positioning of our country. In previous speeches, my colleagues have elaborated very well all the things that weigh and torment our society, and as regards corruption and the fight against corruption and all that awaits us in the next period, together with you, which represent the Ministry of Justice, but also with people from all those state institutions who are in charge of this fight, who are in charge of us here in the National Assembly, to clear society of such phenomena, such as corruption, such as the gray economy, all that casts one shadow of what has been done in terms of economic reforms, in terms of jobs, the message that Serbia is daily sending to the world, how powerful it is today, how strong it is, how strong it can deal with the challenges and as the crisis is caused by Kovid 19, so the Corona virus, that it is capable of having its resources, both human and material and natural, as well as possible and for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia. My colleague, Marijan Risticevic, spoke of some eclastane examples related to corruption, which relate primarily to matters concerning the direct damage of this state and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and concerning those who have been campaigning against here for many years, primarily our country, against President Vukic. Clearly, they no longer hide it, that they have a clear political agenda. tycoons who are media owners who are slowly, given their desire, will and, of course, great knowledge, in doing so should definitely not be challenged, that through their media, their own media, through their journalists, through their political agenda, they want to bring down everything that Vukic did in previous years. Almost daily they insist on dehumanizing him, dehumanizing his family, his son, his parents, his brother, and all those who are tied, standing side by side with him in that great struggle. Today we have this example, and I have to mention it, when it comes to false news, when it comes to replacing the thesis, a hack on our colleague here in parliament, the current chairman, Vladimir Orlic, who today says the same tycoon media, is digging up some caves, digging through the media caves just because he dared to tell the truth. Just because he said that those who dug the pit to President Vukic, who were digging the SNS pit, of course figuratively speaking, now it turns out that they were also working with the mafia, with representatives and with parts of organised crime. The man just asked a question. Neither did he speak any supreme truth, nor did he imply anything, he asked a question – wait for people, what kind of connections you have on the basis of arguments and material evidence, a statement by people who agreed to speak for the media. He just raised that question -- wait, look in his yard, let the prosecution react, let the authorities react. They have crucified him since this morning for just asking, a man who has been a messenger for seven years. What's his job but to ask? What's his job but to deal with what's true and to get to that ultimate truth. To get to the point of showing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who is right here, whether those who are developing this country and fighting for the truth, are struggling to be an honest state, honest people, entrepreneurs, businessmen who are full of budgets, who are paying taxes to this country and who are living our social services, which is why this is very much our health care today that supports all these challenges. Or are those for whom no one lives in this country can prove one single thing and only one single question that we refer to these people and these media, do you pay taxes in this country? It's a question of all kinds of questions to me. Do you pay taxes and contributions for your employees to this country and do they enter the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Is that something complicated? Is that a difficult rhetorical question? No, but apparently they don't, they don't pay. Marijan Risticevic talked about it a few dozen minutes ago and surely, I, like his colleague and most colleagues here from our party, is concerned that some competent state authorities are not responding to it. Well, if we have to pay the contributions, if the owner of the trade in Kosovo street or restaurant or cafe pays the contributions and taxes, why shouldn't a United Group do so? Why would anyone in this country be privileged? What do they want to do and what do they want to do? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to show you one piece of paper, a piece of paper showing a social, social network called Instagram, which banned the placing of these so-called posts on the Republican Party in the United States as something that is a hate speech and something that violates the procedure of this social network, only because the Republican Party has announced that the price of fuel, the price of oil and gas has accumulated in the United States. This tells you that everyone is fighting for the truth today, that there is no state in the world, no matter how much it develops its democracy, its institutions and its system, there are no people today who are not fighting for that truth. And so this is a message to the citizens and to all those who do public work, that we too must fight for that truth. Because those who hide behind companies and companies that you can't determine who owns them, who slowly take over the media market, know that if they take over that market and take over that public ether, everything will be what they publish exactly. That's what they want and it'll be the ultimate truth. And that Orlic is digging caves for someone today. And that Wolf is one or the same, as they already call him, with all kinds of ugly names, that he's a criminal, etc. And that Aleksandar Martinovic is guilty only because he teaches at the university or at some high school. Imagine, please, the great sin of all of us who support and encourage labour policy. You know, it's a shame for them to work, to be an MP, to teach, to try, to fight in a political and free market with their knowledge, their qualifications and their qualities. No, I guess they need to continue their policy combination, public procurement, commission, 357 for jobs. That's why the Wolf bothers them. That is why they are bothered by the Serbian Progressive Party, which is ready to deal with those bad guys in its ranks and has shown this on many occasions. The Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vucic put Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia first and their interests, and then comes to the wallpaper of everything else. We here in the Serbian Progressive Party as a majority, as MPs, will always raise our voice against such anomalies, always pointing to those who want to return us to those 2000 settings when corruption was a way of living public workers and public officials. They did, they took over, they're, as Americans say -- the state's captures, they've captured the state with their combinations, their companies, their robbery privatisations. Now they want to take over the media ether so that what they're saying and that what they have as a political agenda, and it's clear -- that they eliminate Vukic as a reformer, as someone who exclusively deals with the interests of this country, which serves the citizens. We will not let them do this, of course, we will continue with our political agenda, but no one will be able to forbid us to indicate how this dehumanization is done and how and what instruments and tools are used to bring Alexander Vukic down. He has the full support of us from the Serbian Progressive Party, and I am sure of the coalition partners and, most importantly, the vast majority of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3835	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. If I may calm you down, the authors of those words that concerned you have, as far as I have seen, decided to distance themselves very quickly and to flee from their words. So, it's about totally normal behavior for these people. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3837	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing the selection of members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, namely RATL and members of the Council of the Corruption Control Agency. We also talked about the work of these regulatory bodies when they adopted their work reports for 2019 and not so long ago, I think it was right before New Year's Eve or maybe even later. When it comes to RATEL under the legal procedure of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications held a public competition, and the government established a proposal for candidates for these, I would say significant duties. This proposal will certainly be announced by the National Assembly in the voting day and will elect the president, i.e. the deputy president and members of the RATL Management Board. What is important to say is that members of the Management Board of this body are chosen from order, above all, prominent experts, with high academic education from areas relevant for the work of this Agency, especially in the field of electronic communications, economics and rights. It is understood and always so that it is the people who enjoy, above all, the reputation in the professional public and who have made a significant contribution in practice or in terms of scientific and research work in the field of electronic communications or postal services. What is important to stress, first of all because of the public, is that the areas that fall within the RATEL work area are very dynamic and change rapidly, for example, from analogue to digital broadcasting. Investments are also on the rise in this electronic communications sector every year. What seems to me, perhaps most important to point out, is that the pandemic of the coronary virus has contributed to greater Internet use and communication through electronic media and all of what may have been a little foreign to us a year ago. Today, under circumstances, we tend to have classes in numerous, high and elementary schools in the period behind us and high school institutions taking place and now online. There are more and more employees who are doing work from home and rarely even for foreign companies and companies, so that the statistics are slowly changing, although somewhere according to the data that I have in our country, internet services are mostly used by young people, first of all, populations between 16 and 24, and more than 95% of them are actually using social networks, hence the increasingly pronounced and need to be aware of the dangers lurking on the Internet and we must all somehow contribute to this problem. Yesterday, it seems to me, at the discussion of my colleague Ace Mirkovic, we also had one reaction from the police minister precisely to a negative phenomenon that occurred when it comes to social and social networks. Therefore, RATEL is working with a number of international organisations, a member of the International Union for Telecommunications, concluding the Memorandum of Cooperation in the field of electronic communications with colleagues from other countries who are scheduled to exchange information and co-operation on a regular basis. It has great powers, but this results in great responsibility and it is very important that the authorities do their job as fully as possible, so I did in the opening part say that members elected by the Management Board must indeed choose, above all, from the order of respected experts. When it comes to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, today the Greater Agency is elected, and this is under the new law, the second-degree body, so far we have had the Agency's committee. In the proposal of the Justice Ministry as authorized, if I am not wronged by 19 candidates, it is, of which the Assembly will choose five members of the Agency's Council and yet somehow a very important moment to talk about this. For both of these independent bodies, it is important that indeed members must be for the third time, I repeat, professional and responsible persons but above all must be persons of high moral integrity simply because this is the most sensitive when it comes to corrupting influences. Sometimes it seems to us, even to us in this room, that the Agency's demands are too strict, but simply as public officials, we must be an example of a good bang and meet our legal obligations. I cannot help but stress the importance of the Agency's work, which primarily acts preventively in the area of preventing corruption as one serious monster. We know that corruption and organised crime are the two biggest security threats to every society. Somehow these days we also see how infinitely dangerous that can be. From all of this it seems to me to be a definition for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia, what is the importance of how important the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption as an independent body is. What is important in our country and what is the fact that corruption and corruption affairs are not going through without a decisive response from the state and that it will not continue to happen. Moreover, we see that war has been declared for corruption, organised crime, money laundering, everything that in a democratic society and a serious state is not allowed. So on stage at this point, I'd say zero tolerance when it comes to corruption and corruption. I truly welcome this determination of state leadership to oppose anyone who would do to work their own interests what is often unimaginable to an ordinary man. Society must be protected, every citizen must feel free, none of us should be threatened in any way, let alone feel like a clay pigeon, and in the last days we have some definition that says that not a small percentage of people have really been exposed, that they feel just like a clay pigeon for the work of someone's ambitions, for the work of someone's goals that are primarily motivated by some kind of material profit. It is the duty of the state, the duty of all holders of the government, regardless of what branch of government it is. Each branch of government has its place and mission, but what I think we have for the first time, is that we must all be defending corruption and organised crime. So you can't let that happen. That's why it's important that we end this election, to solve this issue that's in the tide today and we're going to talk about tomorrow, I guess tomorrow will be the day to vote, to make it clear. To choose the people who will do, I hope and believe, the best team and the management of RATEL as well as the management of the Corruption Prevention Agency, so to round this story, leave our hands free to those who are legally obliged to take care of the stability of this country, because we will all sleep together and sleep more peacefully and we will suffer less. My colleagues have already said in their discussions before me that the SPS parliamentary group will declare themselves in the voting day and show their trust to one of the candidates who have been proposed. It's certain everyone deserves trust. Unfortunately, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, we have more candidates than we choose. We will allow ourselves the luxury of choosing the best, and I am almost certain that this congregation congregational congregation will not be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3838	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3839	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, are ahead of us with a decision on a proposal for candidates to elect a council member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, an institution in charge of the work of this high house. An institution that is independent and independent. Personally, I find it extremely important for a modern, democratic, European society like Serbia today. There is corruption in every country, and it is only a matter of how much the state is willing to oppose corruption. In front of you is important and long-term work that is constant. The fight against corruption cannot be stopped at once, but unfortunately, you must be constantly on guard, because corruption can appear anywhere and anytime. Our country led with President Alexander Vukic by force and began fighting corruption and organised crime. We are witnessing that one of the most notorious criminal groups in our territory has been arrested. If they had weapons like a paramilitary formation that wasn't meant to stand as a trophy weapon, it was ready to be used. We can only assume what they were preparing for sniper weapons to use for. Also, this criminal group couldn't have developed to this extent if it hadn't had the support in state authorities. And that's exactly what people from criminal organizations and people from state authorities are doing, and that's where we expect your work and your support. You, on the one hand, as competent authorities, and the judiciary, the prosecution and the police on the other. All those who participated and supported this criminal group must be brought into law enforcement. Unfortunately, we all remember corruption affairs such as the privatisation of the "C Market", "Del Real", Azotara from Pancheva, Serbia Tourist and many others when people belonging to the then DOS under the coat of democratic change overnight became rich, and all on the burden of the state, we didn't have a Anti-Corruption Agency at the time. We all know what changes are under the cloak and under the auspices of democratic change they left us. They left us a robbed state, destroyed public enterprises, over-indebted local self-government, over-indebted state. On the other hand, they bought hectares and hectares of real estate, became very successful businessmen, and all with state money. Something like this should never have happened in Serbia, and we must never let anything like this happen again. Also, in your work is the financing of political parties, so I wonder if you have asked the question and raised the issue of advertising videos on TV "N1" and "New S" by Gilas's parties, which have been broadcast over 400 times and paid by a private firm? The Serbian Progressive Party has paid the state tax in order to broadcast its 28 videos in the previous campaign on these public votes. Gilas's party, which we don't even know our name anymore, has not paid taxes for broadcasting advertising videos. Well, I'm curious, is Gilas' party privileged against all other parties in the Republic of Serbia and if it is privileged, why is it privileged? As I said, there are a lot of issues ahead of you and a lot of work, because we want the modern, orderly and European state that we live in today. We deserve to ride new highways. We deserve to be treated by doctors in new hospitals. We deserve to invest in education, but also in culture. Our citizens today are able to vaccinate and choose which vaccine they want to vaccinate, which some EU citizens can only think. To proudly pronounce the name of our country in which we live. So that we can develop as both a state and as a society and as an economy, the prerequisite for all of this is that corruption is being cut down at the first and the basic level. In Voting Day, I will support the decisions we make today, along with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, and I wish you a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3840	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3841	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today we have an insight into the 18 candidates who are proposed to elect members of the Council of the Corruption Prevention Agency as a second-degree body and it is up to us to assess which five candidates are the best and who will do the best work in their five-year term. The very conditions of competition which mean that candidates must meet the general conditions relating to the work of the state authorities, that they are not sentenced to a sentence of more than six months in prison but also that they must be lawyers and have nine years of experience in the profession, these conditions of competition are sufficient for us to, in a way, guarantee that future members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency will do their job professionally and quality. And today's debate is a good opportunity, and colleagues before me have talked about looking at and assessing what the Agency's work was like to prevent corruption, but also a good opportunity to express our expectations about the Agency's work in the future. I hope that the members of the Council will contribute that the Agency will continue to work in practice so far, that according to the law, it controls the property and incomes of politicians and that the public will always have insight into the property map of politicians, i.e. all those who perform a state or other public function. Years and decades ago, it's a general opinion in the public that politicians are hiding their property card. It is the Anti-Corruption Agency that is to show whether there has been any abuse of those who have performed their duties and have been enriched in this way. I think that in some future period, the Agency needs to create a clear picture and give an answer to whether in the past someone has gotten rich and whether someone is rich by misusing the function they're doing. In this way, the public will be able to express its position on this, i.e. we will get one court of the public who is and how important it is as a collective factor in the work of all political parties and politicians themselves. I will remind you that we have recently adopted amendments and additions to the laws relating to the origin of the property in the Assembly. I can look at him in the same context when I talk about the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because it applies to the same subject. And that law also showed that in the fight against corruption we are all equal before the law, that we are from the highest state officials and that there is no tolerance in this area. The Agency for the Prevention of Corruption for its Work corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but on the other hand, we, as representatives of the legislator, are obliged to ensure, of course, in collaboration with the members of the Agency, the best possible mechanisms for the Agency to do its job, that it can have free hands and sanction any action that does not comply with the law. It is also on the agenda to elect a president, a deputy president and three members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. I believe that their task should be, above all, to preserve a competitive market, to create the best conditions for all market participants, i.e. in the field of telecommunications and postal services, and the end result should be for end-users, i.e. consumers to be satisfied with these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3842	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3843	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today discussing the election of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency on the proposed candidates for an independent state institution. We expect and believe that candidates are ready to comply with regulations and laws, but that they will also ensure independence and impartiality in making final decisions on potential abuses of officials. The largest number of abuses of official positions occurred in the period until 2012, when all the responsibility of government was on the Democratic Party, but also on those who left and formed some new callings and some new parties. In their time from 2000 to 2012, the functions of mayors and MPs joined together, and that was normal at the time. There was an enormous rate of corruption everywhere, especially in the judiciary and local self-government. A number of affairs, corruption, non-intentional and non-transparent spending of money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all these are synonyms for power until 2012. We must not allow it to happen again that someone like Dragan Gilas after his term as a public office acquires property that is measured by hundreds of millions of euros, real estate in the best locations in our country, but also over 30 apartments. We are witnessing, unfortunately, that millions also blended in the pockets of Miroslav Aleksic while he was president of the municipality of Trstenik. He was fed up with the municipal register, but also the registers of public and state institutions. From the purposeless use of credit for the alleged construction of an industrial zone, through the robbery in the construction of a sports hall in the village of Poljna, to the murky shops in the Public Communal Company "Počevina" we also reach the fact that Miroslav Aleksic illegally raised his salary at the time when he was president of the municipality of Trstenik. When you hear only part of this and add that the closer members of his family have been to important functions, then you understand why Trstenik was named after his father-in-law, the nickname of the principality. All of this happened in other Serbian cities, even in the municipality from which I came. The Serbian Progressive Party found an empty register, a 125m debt, unfinished projects and numerous malfeasances by coming to power in the municipality of Cicevic. Is this a public function goal? Is the goal of destroying some local self-government, city or public enterprise in order for individuals to provide themselves with apartments, a private firm or perhaps as many as 619m euros? We are here because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of new highways, new hospitals, new schools, new factories and foreign investments. We have been chosen to work in the interests of citizens and their improvement, and this is what the Serbian Progressive Party shows us daily. Since the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power, the fight against corruption has been one of the priorities, but also a strategic plan of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We managed to change the perception of the citizens about corruption, restore trust in the work of the authorities responsible for calculating corruption, the trust that was seriously shaken by 2012. We do not want officials, as once did, to use public functions to acquire personal wealth and create monopolys for their own business, but to work for the benefit of their citizens and to respond before them. President Aleksandar Vukic, but also the state, has a firm commitment to combat crime and corruption, to stand in the way of all forms of crime and to give citizens complete legal certainty. What's most important, there are no protected or privileged in this fight, and we've shown it many times now. For all these reasons, in the voting day, I support the proposals, as well as the efforts of President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make Serbia a well-organised, decent and successful state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3844	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. You have five minutes and 45 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3845	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-President, Minister for Cooperation, Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, among other things, we are also discussing a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The proposal contains 18 candidates whose biographies are in the material that we have received. Before I engage in some deeper analysis of this story itself, I want to speak one rhetorical question – what is, in fact, the essence of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Namely, Articles 20. The Anti-Corruption Act provides for the Council of the Agency to decide on complaints against decisions made by the Director other than decisions relating to the rights and obligations of employees, then to take the principles of application of this law, oversee the work of the Director and monitor its property situation. Therefore, it is clear that this is about a second-degree body which, above all, needs to have a corrective function, i.e. by deciding to appeal to the Director's decisions, is essentially showing that it controls his work and achieves what the Agency, or the Greater Agency, is essentially there. If we start from the fact that the selection of the Anti-Corruption Agency's executives was one of the major changes to the old Anti-Corruption Agency Act, then it is clear that the process for selecting senior members of the Agency is a clear indicator of the very purpose of amending the law that was then passed, because the members of the Council, among other things, have to pass the contest, to pass the test, to win at least 80 points in order to be able to even be in a position to enter as a proposal, i.e. we are even discussing them. Based on all these, but also other legal solutions that fall within a set of anti-corruption laws, the will and intention of the state to control corruption in one real way and in this sense enables the Agency to react in one preventive way everywhere where risks for the existence of corruption itself arise. I think that's one good way for her to work. In this context, in the previous period, Serbia has also significantly strengthened the repressive and preventive mechanism of action when it comes to fighting corruption and I think that in one of my previous exhibitions, I have stated that we have been no longer on the list of globally unsatisfactory countries since 2019 when it comes to fighting corruption against the Report on Consistency with GRECO recommendations, and I think that this is an excellent indicator. Also, I would like to mention the data presented by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, under which, from March 2018 to July 2020, more than 24,000 people have been reported for corruption. This clearly shows that there are officials of local self-government and directors of public enterprises, as well as officials of the republican authorities, and over 1,300 convictions were made during that period. Despite the fact that the fight against corruption is a complex process and that in the public very often the presence of corruption may be perceived in a way that we should not do so, I think that it is an idea for all of us, but also the goal of resisting corruption, not the perception of corruption, because the difference is large and to a significant extent can make the situation worse compared to what it is right now, when it comes to fighting corruption. Finally, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, provides full support to all state authorities in the fight against organised crime and corruption. We believe it is necessary for the entire political but other public to make their full contribution and support to all the competent authorities dealing with this issue. It is important that the state demonstrates that it is stronger than corruption and that it has not only strength, but also enough institutions and institutional mechanisms to act on it, because in this way one clear message will be sent that no kind of behaviour or organisation is allowed, or that it can do damage to both the security of the state and the way it works. With the election of members of the Council, we are essentially contributing to the fight against corruption and that is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group Rasim Ljajic will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3846	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3847	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will look back at the selection of members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency and indicate why such a choice is much better than the one we had in the old law. The amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which we voted in this House, also changed the way members of the second-degree body are elected, i.e. now members of the Council. This is the first time that, under the new law, the provisions of the laws defined by the members of the 21st to 24th new law are made to elect members of this second-degree body. So far, the second-degree anti-corruption agency body then contained nine members proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Administrative Board. One candidate was proposed by the president, one Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Cassation Court, the DRI, the Socio-Economic Council, the joint proposal was the Association of Journalists and the Protector of the Rights of Citizens. Today, we have a completely different choice of members of the Council, and that is by testing the selection of members of the Council, namely candidates who approach the test, first of all, must have certain conditions, and these conditions are to contain... So, general conditions for working in state authorities: completed law school, at least nine years of work experience in the profession and, which is very important, which is that they are not sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months for committing a crime or not sentenced to some punishment that makes them unworthy of performing this function. The Minister of Justice, or you, has given the names to us, to the MPs in this house, 18 candidates who have passed the test. The test was passed by the best candidates. We will choose five members of the Council in the voting day. Those five members of the Council are officials. They are the highest second-degree body of a large institution, a serious institution called the Corruption Prevention Agency, an independent body of this state. They are officials, and therefore they have great powers, as well as great obligations towards the citizens of Serbia. Why is this important to apostrophe? It is important precisely because in the days of our not so long ago dark past, when there was a yellow coalition in power, the Anti-Corruption Agency, it seems to me that the other state authorities didn't exactly care about what they were for. We remember Mosto himself on Ada, the famous, who was supposed to cost 160m euros, paid over 500m euros. In 2012, a semi-finished bridge was opened on New Year's Eve, without a building permit, with Tadic's parade and Gilas over it. None of the state authorities, nor the Anti-Corruption Agency wondered where that money was and how much we could build bridges across the Sava in Belgrade that this bridge was paid as much as it really cost. The next example of corruption, or crime, is the so-called “crime. ” Banatian shorts, i.e. money from the circuit budget allocated to the Banatian Shores, which according to the Sport Act are not sports. It's one game, an old shepherd's game, for which 28 million dinars were allocated from the circuit budget. They played people, Marinika Tepic, with 28 million dinars. We remember the same not so long ago, the dark past, when the Ministry of Environmental Protection, led by Oliver Dulic, cleaned Serbia's budget. And we're aware of that. We also remember Mr. Gilas, who, as mayor of Belgrade, has subordinated public interest to his private interest, and somehow by some miracle 619m euros evaporated from the city's budget, evaporated into some of his companies or that his brother Gojko Gilas has 38 properties in his name. Well, if he'd won some million-dollar lottery, I'm talking in millions of euros, he couldn't have that much real estate. It is therefore important that we also highlight the members of the Council, which we choose in the voting day, and the citizens of Serbia what the Anti-Corruption Agency means and what it means that the goal set before us all and you, ministers, by President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, is an imperative fight against crime and corruption. The imperative is for the simple reason that the fight against corruption is important for the country's economic development, for the country's political development, for the country's social development, and also for health. Today in this way, by selecting members of the Second-degree Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, we have, therefore, a kind of fight against corruption, these are not just names that are obtained, but those members who pass the test, on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, and according to the exercise of the Justice Academy's competition, their names will be here before us. They were ranked by the success of the test. That's what's important to stress. It is also important to stress that Serbia had three billion gross euros in direct foreign investment in 2020, in the year of the crown, the year that cut down all countries, their economy, in gross amounting to three billion euros. She didn't have it in 2010. No, because foreign investors did not want to invest in a country that is politically unstable, in which corruption flourishes. In the year 2019, the Council Serbia was the world's first in number of foreign investments. And it is important to highlight in this home and remind the citizens of Serbia what Aleksandar Vukic is doing and how Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for his country. Also, from this place I would like to tell the council members, which we will choose in this home, to fight even better, more professionally, directly for this Serbia, that is, to prevent corruption, as Alexander Vukic is fighting and to help him in this unholy struggle. Long live our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3848	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3849	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, are certainly the greatest digitisation and the greatest number, that is, the greater the switch to digital services. It is extremely important for us to work to improve the telecommunications infrastructure in Serbia, and certainly, the greater the income from telecommunications services, i.e. from electronic communications, we can invest in further digitisation and electronic media, in information security, and above all in the safety of children on the Internet. Good business, good governance of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services is therefore important. This agency has been established by the Law on Electronic Communications and has been clearly and precisely defined by the acts of the competent institutions which are the rights and obligations of this Agency. We recently discussed and adopted the report on RATEL's business for 2019 at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and during the debate, the report collected a number of positive comments. At that time, we realized that the total income for financial indicators in the telecommunications market, i.e. 206 billion dinar electronic communications, is 4% higher than in 2018. What is also important is that Serbia's share of GDP took this revenue at 3.8%. As far as the share in these revenues is concerned, it is important to point out that the biggest income has been achieved by mobile network services, then fixed and broadband internet access, fixed networks around 13% and distribution of media content around 12%. The income structure singles out investment in distribution of media content and 41 billion dinars. Why is all this important? Statistical data itself as a fact is really important and the data that when placed in a particular format is obtained from the information that is further processed, but whenever we talk about these things we should insist that we always, every time we ask a question about the functioning of individual media that is available to Serbian citizens. How is it possible for national channels to pay compensation to both REM and RATEL and Sokoya, while other media not registered in Serbia are paying nothing, and their content is being placed on Serbian citizens. Can you imagine, then, the increase in revenue in the budget and this institution that we are talking about today and in general in the Republic of Serbia's budget that they meet the commitments as well as the others that are defined in Serbia, difficult. We, on the other hand, have Dragan Gilas who, with his associate Sollac, saw yesterday, wants to tear Serbia down through Washington. Imagine, United Group claims that since 2014, many unfounded and discriminatory measures have been implemented by authorities and state institutions. It further states that all this is done to reduce SBB market participation by a telecommunications operator, United Group, in Serbia. To remind ourselves, the SBB was founded in 2000. In 2007, the Mid-Europe Partners Investment Fund purchased SBB together with a company from Slovenia, which previously bought an operator from BiH. From all of this, United Group is established. The official owner of the SBB in front of Mid-Europe Partners was Adria Cable B.V. from Amsterdam. In 2013, this company, meaning Mid-Europe Partners, sells its stake in United Group for $1.3 billion to a US investment fund, a shortened name of the KKR, which takes control of the SBB. What do I mean? The sale was made, transactions were made, and for this in Serbia, where they acted, no single dinar was paid. No single penny, a cent, has gone into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this is where it worked. Today, the same "United Group" complains to Washington, they want to lower and destroy Serbia. Otherwise, this group in its wing has a whole series of businesses. They're different, let's say, adria forms and the SBB itself owns a ownership stake in one of those Adrias. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia that such a complicated ownership structure, the complicated network of the ownership of various companies that are the owners of each other makes it easier to draw money, avoid obligations both towards REM, and according to the RATEL, which we are talking about today, and ultimately, according to the Republic of Serbia, according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, generally, towards the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed Mrs Popovic, RATEL has a major role to play in managing very important national resources. Given that electronic communications policy is governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that our strategic goal, among others, is to achieve greater Serbia's competitiveness in the electronic communications sector, including domestic production of telecommunications equipment, as well as the introduction of new services, the construction of good infrastructure, RATEL has great powers, but also great responsibility. Support should be given to the draft act on the agenda today. We have recently confirmed this as members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, because we believe that it is very important for this institution and the Management Board, because they are entrusted with the affairs of the state and we want them to do even more responsibly, more professionally and more dedicatedly this work and, if they are able, to stand in the way of such malversions, boasting and abuse Dran Gilas, who, through his media, is destroying Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3850	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Dabic, tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3851	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister with an associate, our parliamentary group in voting day will support the election of candidates for members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency because after that election we finally arrive, that is, we are creating preconditions to start applying the Anti-Corruption Act last year, but the election of members of the Council was just waiting because they are the only ones who can appeal to the decisions of the Agency's director. As for the fight against corruption, it remains certainly at the top of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is so from 2012 until today. Today, we can proudly say that independent regulatory bodies, such as the Fiscal Council and such as the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, can freely do their job without the pressure of anyone from the executive authority. If that hadn't been the case until eight years ago, enough is the fact that the Fiscal Council never called us when we were in debt at those green interest rates, we never had a chance to hear someone from the Anti-Corruption Agency come out and say it's not normal for some official with 76,000 euros in income, which he reported in 2004, to be at a level of several hundred million euros, as is the case with former mayor Dragan Gilas. Of course, it would be more desirable if institutions could do their jobs then, but today we say we created such a Serbia in which everyone should do their job and, of course, we will continue to try to improve the work of independent regulatory bodies. Of course, there have been many cases of corruption in the previous period, that nothing has been questioned. When we inherited the state, when we inherited our country's management in 2012, you know how many criminal proceedings we have committed and against those officials who belong to our party. I come from a district where three former presidents of the municipality were arrested, where they were put in front of justice to answer for something they did. I hope they prove in court that they haven't done certain things, but definitely it's an indicator of how many states face the law of all those suspected of being wrong in some way about the law. It should be borne in mind that when I talk about fighting corruption, it is our obligation to come from accession negotiations with the EU. This is no longer by this new methodology concentrated in this Chapter 23, but in all clusters. So, the fight against corruption is a struggle for the survival of our country, and the key organ in this whole process, the minister, seems to me, it's clear to everyone that it's the prosecution. The prosecution, of course, did a great job in the previous period. We've had a lot of investigations both against our officials and against some others, but definitely there are failures. As President Aleksandar Vukic has repeatedly asked Serbian government members to work more, better, more committed, so today's prosecution must do much better than it has done so far. If they had done their job, we wouldn't have come to the situation if we had a criminal gang in the heart of Belgrade that had strengthened to this extent that it had practically become so powerful that it could think it was okay and that it had to deal with the highest state officials and that on the target, it personally wanted President Alexander Vukic to put on his sniper target. If the prosecutors had done their job, if there hadn't been a lack of investigation, if the evidence hadn't magically disappeared, DNA evidence from the scene of the accident, we wouldn't be in a position to talk about this group today, because they'd already be behind the lock. Of course, we need to warn about these phenomena, because when citizens honor us from the SNS certain prosecution failures, counterpart Shukalo just said, so we are not in charge of prosecutors, to place them, to replace them, they would say that we are affecting that independent branch of government. I say one more time, they're not our members, nor are we setting up prosecutors. They should be doing their job, and it is up to us, given that the citizens of us have expectations, given that we won the majority in the last election, we have received plebecitarian support and we need to influence the prosecutors that they must be aware of their roles, that they need even more and more committed to commit themselves to fighting the mafia, to fight crime, to strike, as President Vukic asked, with a mallet on the head of that mob hydra that has so strengthened that she thought she was so strong that she could overthrow President Alexander Vukic in such a way. So that we have no doubt that this is reality, we, you know, live in a country where he was killed 12 years ago, or how many years ago he's been dead since the Prime Minister was killed. So it wasn't that long ago when the mob ran people's lives that way and it determined who would and who wouldn't run this country. We have to hit crime even harder today. The prosecution has here, it seems, the biggest role for all those who have wronged the law and to strike down these state structures that have certainly allowed them to come into this situation and threaten our constitutional order and endanger President Vukic himself and his family. I say once again, if the attorney in the capital can't hit the mob, then what does the one in the smaller place do when everyone there knows anyway and when it's not easy to object to serious criminals? So, the prosecution has to show this step and show that no one is untouchable, that all those who have sinned against the law face the law and that in this way finally solve this situation that we have found ourselves in, that we never again come into a situation that makes some criminal clan so strong, that we have a problem here and that the members of the government and the president of the state we live in personally are threatened. We're still pulling problems from the previous regime when they abolished, you know, the law by which investigative judges existed, so they conducted investigations. Today's prosecution investigation is something that is the discretionary right of every prosecutor, whether he will engage in the fight against crime or not. I say once again, if he sees that in Belgrade they can't hit criminals, what's he gonna do in a smaller place? It's actually most important to point out and, of course, you're not responsible for this. In 2009, this criminal reform of our judiciary was carried out. Since then, we have been dragging problems from that period when judges are placed directly from the DS main board and today you have judges who boast that they do not account for their country, they say independent, independent of their government, but also how dependent on some foreign power centres, they boast that regular guests are in some embassies, and there they receive orders and then come to us here and salty minds that the judiciary should be even more independent of Serbia's citizens. These things need to be talked about. These are some of the phenomena we're honored by, us from the SNS. President Vukic will be told by citizens – why you did not launch certain investigations, and I say once again that the reform was in 2009 when thousands of judges were laid off in one criminal way, and who were honest and doing their job, so that some party staff of DS would then come to power. I say once again that we live in a country where it's not impossible to turn any. We had a chance to see what it looked like not so long ago, when the mob killed the prime minister. In order for that to never happen again, I say once again, you have a great responsibility to really commit yourself and to drive that judiciary out to the clearing, to know in this country who is the law, and who must never again strengthen to the point of jeopardizing any state official. We will certainly vote in the voting day for this election. Once again, I want to tell everyone that Serbia has the strength. Serbia will, I'm sure, come out of this battle as a winner, because we have no other choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3852	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3853	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, a respected minister, admitted or not, you were not a person who before the election in this post was something known in broad political circles, or a person who was something widely known in the public of Serbia. As time passes, and as you do your job, we are slowly getting to know both the MPs and the general public in Serbia. Here, you've already been sitting in this bench a number of times, defending and explaining legal proposals, which says you've taken your job seriously and are determined to continue politics, i.e. to follow a policy that is on the path of crime and corruption, to the minimum possible minimum. Clearly, it is impossible to do it completely, nor was it fully done in any society in the world. Now, someone who's not engaged in any deeper analysis, I'd say it's just your job and maybe you're just doing your job and nothing more than that, but if you go into a deeper analysis of all that, it's clear to draw one conclusion, that in this business, you're going to deal with those who are the main bearers of crime and corruption in this country. You, in your operation and in your first moves in the ministerial position, could have also come from the hens, as our people have called for centuries those who are petty thieves and criminals, but you are not. You came from those who, I say, are huge beasts and bearers of crime and corruption in any society. In fact, just recently, I'm going to get you back to something closer to the past, before us in this house was the Law of Origin of Assets. Today it's the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. One and the other topics concern huge beasts, at least I think, the powerful and the most important link in crime, powerful political protectors, because without powerful political protectors, there is no strong corruption and crime, and on both counts you set out on them. What does that show? This shows that you are resolved and seriously determined to follow the country's president's policy that the bob says it's a bob, and the priest says it's a pop. You're determined to hit "the strongest" under the supposed signs. That is exactly what the president of the state does, regardless of who they are, whether they come from some previous state political structures or from the present, whether they come from some domestic or foreign structures, the goal is to deal with them. It's all about harmful phenomena. Whoever caused them, whether it's a foreign or domestic factor, it doesn't matter. However, it seems to me that in the last few days, it is increasingly obvious that the side factor is one of the main carriers and the one in the environment, but also the one in the wider part. What could be motives? The motives are certainly to stop strong and prosperous Serbia, which is also able to help those living within its borders, as well as our people living outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Here's one piece of plastic evidence for that. In recent days, information has already been made public that these bleeders you recently arrested and how they have been associated with certain structures in Montenegro. What would the goal be? Well, stop helping strong Serbia, our countrymen in Montenegro and the SPC, leave them at the mercy of crime and policies that work to deny the identity of the Serb people in Montenegro. How do you do it the easiest way? Well, by executing the president of the state, who is the holder of Serbia's policy today or by executing members of his family and, of course, affecting him. For all of this, it is certainly necessary to provide serious political support and, above all, those who have exercised power and have acquired serious capital through corruption and crime and who today are the main opposition to the president of Serbia's state and government. Very simple, but a very dangerous recipe, already seen. As simple as he is, we won't let it be accomplished. Namely, this will not allow people in Serbia to give one unreserved support to the president of the state, the current government. They will not allow serious people who make the majority, far from the majority in Serbia, nor our people who live in an environment. You, a respected minister, seem also determined to follow it, to follow this path regardless of the dangers that are put before you. What are the motives of your choice? We can guess whether your personal confidence or your experience from some previous jobs within the security service where you are required to have extraordinary courage or a mixture of one and the other. That might not even matter. It's important to keep it that way, keep going that way. Parliament will remain a serious support for both you and the President and the Government in this business, so also when it comes to the election of this Council, and we will certainly vote from the SNS for certain personal solutions when it comes to the election of this Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3854	I thank the People's Messenger, Milimir Vujadinovic. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3855	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, respected citizens, respected minister with a co-worker, I will talk about a proposal for candidates to elect a Council of the Agency. I will remind, first of all, future members of the Council of the Agency, I hope that they are watching this Assembly, because it is very important for them, they may be able to learn something from this debate, reminding them that the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Maja Popovic, promised on behalf of the government that the fight against corruption and crime will be unwavering during the debate on amendments to the Law on the origin of property. The esteemed minister then said the law is an anti-corruption law "par excellency", which is absolutely true and that our state and government have shown determination in the fight against corruption and crime, of course. The future members of the Agency's Council should know that much better co-operation is needed with the Agency with the Ministry of Justice, with the Tax Administration, or with its new Property Verification Sector, with the Prosecutor's Office and with the Ministry of Interior. The Agency and its Council must be much braver and more determined to approach their work and law enforcement. The guideline gave them a remarkable Verica Barac as early as 2011 in the light of her famous report. The agency should not only deal with the Council and the Director, to deal only with records, reports, it must enter into the heart of the fight against corruption. The Council and the Agency, meaning both director and deputy, and of course employees must enter the foundations of abuse of their official position, and even social position, means that trade also has an impact to gain benefits for themselves or others, just as Article 2 says. The Anti-Corruption Act. I'll also point to some parallels. The regime of Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic from 2008 to 2012 has simply stimulated corruption. Since 2013 the Agency has been working much better, but shyly and in my opinion rather restrictively accessing its own powers. The Agency must be more determined to apply its powers, to initiate and conduct legal infringement proceedings, to file criminal charges, to give a stronger opinion on the application of the law as regards, to initiate the adoption of amendments to the rules, to investigate the state of corruption louder, all in the description of the work of the Agency and the Council, of course. The agency's council, five with a five-year mandate, which is very significant, must be more actively occupied and that is their authority, too, which is often ignored. Therefore, the principled views on the application of this law allow them to do so by Article 20 of the law which applies to them. This whole matter cannot be approached just dry and bureaucratic, although it is necessary, but there must be a living and efficient approach to this whole matter, the data must be crossed, synthesized, and not only analysed, kept. So there's got to be some famous financial forensics, too, but I'm not sure the Agency in general and the Council are trained to do that, and they should be. I'm going to remind the members of the agency's council of a very significant piece of information, and it's now another parallel. This is the information that Aleksandar Vukic has not been rich in politics in 28 years. In these nine years, neither Ana Brnabic, Sinisa Mali, Goran Vesic, nor anyone from the SNS, nor from the Serbian government have been enriched. In 28 years, the politics of Alexander Vukic has not been enriched by a single member of his family. Now let's go to the second part of the parallel. When it comes to representatives of the former regime, things are diametrically opposite. Tykun Gilas has earned 619m euros "violently", for 10 years performing three state functions. His brother owns 35 properties and is co-owner of his brother's company. The former, or first wife of Mr. Gilas, who was also a state official, was also enriched, but was also co-owner of the firm's ex-wife. We also know the former defence minister, all doing business with those famous Vrakar's pastures, was rich in former, poor regional sports and youth secretary, probably riding a bike, and today she owns a series of properties of which only one in Novi Sad is worth one and a half acres, and is worth at least 300,000 euros. Of course, one of the godmothers of the fake state of Kosovo, well-known Jeremiah, Vuk Brankovic, who worked in favour of the false state of Kosovo acquired, no less, no more than 10m euros, small things. So they got rich with him and all the members of his family, and during this period that I said, 12 years, thousands of yellow octopus officials got rich. I will inform the future members of the Council of the Agency of a phenomenon that is relevant to their work, and that by 2012, the so-called "legislative" so-called "legislative" was allowed. Robbery. For example, I talked about it, but I will briefly rob Belgrade's Building Land Directorate from 2004 to 2011, when the city's budget was robbed for the famous 291m euros. This was made possible by the corrupt regulations of the city's Directorate. So no one was responsible for this crime, and I'm giving this example because of the parallel, so Gilas is his fortune, I said, I've acquired three state functions. His wealth is once again proportional to the poverty of the city of Belgrade that he led. You know, people are very careless, and I think that's a very important piece of information for the D.A.'s office, for the Department of Justice. Gilas wrote a letter in the "Today" list. He signed it. It's been published. Otherwise, he owns that list today. So on November 22, 2018, he admitted that one of his companies was making 292m euros, and I'm going to quote it, so it's not like I'm putting something in someone's mouth. According to Gilas -- it is not exactly true that the company was making 300m euros in years when I was mayor, but right in the euro 291. 957. 709 euros, end quote. So, Dragan Gilas admitted that while he was in office as mayor, one of his companies was receiving 291 almost 292m euros. I mean, I'd be acting if I were a prosecutor, a man has reached half of what we're attributing him to, just one firm. I'm going to point out to the future members of the Agency one big problem that's been opened these days. So the Faculty of Law will agree that everyone is an elite, respected institution, one of the most respected and it is overly needed by this society. I would ask the Rector of the University and the Dean of Legal – what will he do for the time being only suspect that a professor, a cocaine addict, is a pedophile, is selling exams and is no less than a spokesman for the Belivuk mob clan? The authorities registered his contacts with the head of the mob clan, and otherwise that mob clan was to remind me of the murder of the president of the state. So, the authorities found that the number of phones received by incriminating the conversation was just the phone of the professor registered to him, and the artificiality of the two men's voices unquestionably found to belong to this very professor and to the boss of the Belivuk mob clan, so the artificiality was done by the competent authorities. In that conversation, the two of them expressed great love for each other. Such love that even Romeo or Juliet did not present themselves in Shakespeare’s novel. So there's also an electronic correspondence. The competent authorities have shown, in which the professor boasts crimes against minors, drug consumption, and the sale of exams. This professor was brought into SBPOK today to make a statement on the circumstances of acquaintance with the boss of the Belivuk mob clan for three crimes: money laundering, kidnapping, extortion. The polygraph has escaped. If that's all he's saying is true, why'd he avoid a polygraph? Of course it's not true. I will point out to the future members of the Agency's council the devastating consequences of yellow corruption that bit Serbia from 2008 to 2012, more specifically from 2000 to 2012. Simply, statistics say, now I'm talking about the consequences of corruption. In April 2012, the employment rate in Serbia was among the lowest in Europe, at 44%. The unemployment rate was as much as 25%. From 2008 to 2012 the number of unemployed increased by 302,000. So many yellow octopus have fired people. In April 2012, there were 735,000 unemployed. The average profit then, in June 2012, while they still ruled, was only 40,000 dinars. These are the consequences of systemic corruption. On the other hand, since 2012, corruption has been reduced to the least possible and we are fighting an absent battle of life and death with the mafia. Now the unemployment rate is less than 10%. President Vukic and SNS, so we cut unemployment by 15%. In December 2019, the total number of unemployed was only 314.000. We've reduced the number of unemployed by over 420,000. The average earnings in the Republic of Serbia in March 2020 amounted to 60,000 dinars. So President Vukic and I increased the average profit by almost 50%. These are the consequences of fighting corruption. "Freedom, it is freedom to say that two and two four, when given, are all given," George Orwell said in his famous "1984" novel. The Serbian Progressive Party will always speak freely against corruption and will ruthlessly fight the mafia. Gilasovci cannot intimidate Professor Atlagic, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Milos Terzic, Đorđe Todorovic, Uglješ Mrdić, Janko Langur, Đorđa Dabić, Marijan Risticevic, Milenko Jovanovic, or Sandra Bozic, or Vladimir Orlic, or Aleksandr Martinovic, or anyone. In the first place, they can't intimidate the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. I can dehumanize his family, threaten hangings, rapes, courts, revolutions, blood on the streets, nothing worth it, we don't agree to auto-censorship, self-destruction. They can successfully demonize us, satanicize us, dehumanize us, threaten us, lie, plant us, intimidate us, hate us. And finally, the Gilasovites will never understand the lyrics of ryard cypling from the famous song "if" – if you can bear to hear the truth you have spoken, twisted by the ground, in a trap for fools. If you can watch your life's work, dusted down and get back to work with a broken tool, then the whole world is yours and everything that's in it and what's more, then you'll be a great man my son. We understand that, Serbia lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3856	Thank you. Before reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to point out that Milenko Jovanovic's bar is in Kikinda, now I don't know what it's like in the old town. I thank you, People's Messenger. The next one's on the People's MP's list, Dean Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3857	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about proposals from the candidate for president, deputy president, members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Media, as well as candidates for members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have before us proposals from the government and the Registrar of Justice, for those candidates who will perform extremely responsible functions in the coming years. I would first of all like to refer to the proposals of the RATEL candidates, that by confirming this Decision, we will actually give these persons full legitimacy to organise and achieve the objectives that are in accordance with the Statute of the Agency and, of course, in accordance with the law. We have before us candidates who have been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, following the law of the established public competition, which meets the conditions for smooth functioning and smooth management of the Agency. By reading the proposed Decisions, we can conclude that it is about persons who possess both life experience and professional experience to perform these functions. We can also conclude that it is about persons who have spent most of their working life in areas subject to regulation of this agency, and that it is about persons who have a large number of professional and scientific works behind them, which is a clear indication that we choose primarily professional and qualified candidates. When we talk about proposals for members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I must first of all say that we have a list of 18 candidates ahead of us. The procedure, i.e. a public competition that was conducted before the final list of candidates was established, was conducted at a very high level of transparency starting from the moment of publication of the competition in means of public information, then through the test procedure carried out by the Judicial Academy until the time of publication of the final ranking list. First of all, the procedure found that it was about persons who possessed expertise, dignity and who had a high degree of integrity to contribute even better and more transparently to their knowledge and experience, and the real evidence of this is because no complaints were filed after the competition was carried out. We can also say in this case that it is the persons who have spent most of their working life in areas that are subject to the regulation of the Agency, both the judge and the prosecutors, as well as those who have worked for many years at the Agency. First of all, I would like to say that if we look at the list among these candidates there is Krsman Ilic, who was formerly the Appealal Public Prosecutor in Belgrade, and also Judge Danica Marinkovic, who is known to the public as the investigative judge who has conducted various insights and investigations in the area of KIM for many years, and here I would first of all like to highlight the cases of Klecka and Rač in 1999. I would like to say, on the basis of everything forward, that we are first and foremost discussing people with a high degree of integrity today, to face all those challenges that the Agency expects. When we talk about challenges, we need to talk about the challenges facing the state, and we need to talk about the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. First of all, the state is struggling with those challenges in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and from this place I would like to give full support to all the competent institutions and you ministers, to fight this monster and to continue with that route established by Aleksandar Vucic, as the first Deputy Prime Minister, and in charge of fighting organised crime and corruption. Also, I am extremely pleased that today we can discuss reports and suggestions for certain human resources solutions of those bodies that are legally independent, which report to the National Assembly for their work. Also, I must say that this was not before, and in earlier congregation meetings when the SNS did not have a majority, certain reports were discussed by an emergency procedure, certain human resources were considered in a very non-transparent way, which we can conclude today that the Assembly is not a place to hide, but is a congregation where citizens can get all the necessary information and necessary information in certain laws, agreements or contracts. Also, from this point on, I would like to commend the Anti-Corruption Agency, primarily in the area of international co-operation with the international organisation GRECO, which referred 13 recommendations to Serbia, which we have, within a very short period of time, reduced to all recommendations that today refer to constitutional changes showing the very clear maturity of the state of the Republic of Serbia and its competent institutions. In this home of the National Assembly, we passed the Law on lobbying. A register of lobbyists has been formed that citizens can find on the Web presentation of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Also, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption has made a major shift in the area of the NGO sector by adopting a series of regulations laying down how to call competitions in the NGO sector. What is very important is to say that the register of property officials is a very important instrument in the fight against corruption and I am very glad that citizens at any time can make an insight into that same register and find all the necessary information about certain officials and about certain assets if there is any dilemma. In previous weeks, we have also adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Origin of Assets which should represent a crucial instrument in the fight against corruption and in the fight against crime, by establishing in a certain procedure a certain disproportionate or disproportionate between one's declared incomes and between one's mobile and immovable assets on the other. Because if there is a certain disproportionateity in that case, we can, and only on the basis of facts and evidence, talk about certain corruptive actions, in respect of which the competent authorities have to react immediately. So I have to say that the Anti-Corruption Agency is exactly the organ that is very important to detect all corrupt actions, that the Agency should be an organ that will signal to other competent authorities that in a particular case there is a corrupt action and that is to prevent it. I also find it very incomprehensible that the Agency could not establish certain irregularities in certain individuals and certain companies in business between 2010 and 2012. First of all, I'm talking about all those media headlines, both in print and in electronic media, that a small circle of people who were close to DS then had enormous wealth, that they were taking advantage of the state budget and state resources, and all for their personal wealth. I'm talking about that circle of people who were at the top of the DS at the time, and today they're at the head of those parties that are under the censorship and who are trying to get back on the political scene, but failed. They're trying unsuccessfully because the people at this point don't want to see them on the political scene. He doesn't want to see them because he was able to hear and see about all the corrupt actions they were carrying out in 2012 and that in the Republic of Serbia's budget, they left only enough to pay for one month's salary or one month's pension. That is why I would like to remind you from this place of action, i.e. I can say the action that was then conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, titled "Let's Clean Serbia", under the patronage of former National Assembly President and later, Minister Oliver Dulic. At that time, under the pretext of media advertising, the Ministry of Environment paid 500 000 euros in a sports event over a period of two years. After that, only two or three months later they rented another pano on Pop Lukano Street and paid 500 thousand euros for it for a month. Most citizens are likely to know the 2011 press pressure and control report, which was drawn up by Verica Barac, in which he was described in a clear and unequivocal manner and found that the money was used by the then political elite and its champions. I also find it incomprehensible that the Agency could not examine certain allegations from these and other similar reports at those moments. I come simply to the conclusion that at that point there was no minimum political will to investigate all of these actions and to raise criminal charges in these proceedings. We can all wonder why? Because at that moment, there was too much pressure from the DS and individuals at the top of the DS to hide all those marifets that brought them a large number of apartments in exclusive locations and the most expensive cars that drive today, all of our money and your dear citizens of Serbia. I would not want you to take this as any form of pressure, but the people of Serbia want all these others to be investigated and that if there are elements of corruption, certain persons are being processed. Of course, in the voting day, I will support both the proposed decisions, and when we talk about a decision for the members of the Greater Corruption Agency, I want to say that I am standing in the faith that candidates for the Agency will try to bring the problem of corruption to the minimum possible opportunity and opportunity for certain stakeholders and individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3858	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3859	Dear Serbian citizens, Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished Minister Mrs Popovic and his associate Mr. Vinsa, dear Serbian citizens, is right when my colleague Nebojsa Bakarec said there is no fear among Serbian Progressive Party MPs and our President Aleksandr Vukic when it comes to fighting the mafia. There's no fear because we can only fight the mob if we don't have that fear. As for today's agenda and the Agency's work, RATL and the Anti-Corruption Agency, I absolutely support it, and I will do so publicly in the voting day of the proposal. As for the members of the RATEL Management Board and the selection of members of the major Anti-Corruption Agency, the Agency, which is one of the most important links in the fight against corruption. As the Agency does, as did the Ministry of Justice, which you, Mrs Popovic, have successfully led for several months, as did your predecessors Mrs Kuburović and Mr Selakovic, as well as the Ministry of Interior led by Aleksandr Vulin and the Security and Information Agency led by Bratislava Gasic, has excellent results as regards the fight against corruption, and otherwise that fight can only result if you all of these institutions co-operate together. You have a serious opponent, you have a serious mob organization against you. Not you, but all of us, all of us who want Serbia well. You know how, the Mafia doesn't ask for faith or nation or political commitment. Also, mob organizations when they want to realize their interest don't ask for faith or nation or who belongs to any political party. That's why we have a situation today, like this, that the public's upset with the former regime. Part of the former regime, part of the state structures and mafia organisation in Serbia, along with its tentacles in various structures, are upset. That's why Marinika Tepic was upset today, and she is embarrassingly talking about listening to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. That's why Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak were upset who, through their media, give full support to various professors and those who criticise not SNS, not President Vukic, but the fight against the mafia. Well, dear citizens of Serbia have been proven, and this is when I congratulate and work group of MUPs where police officers have professionally done their job, where we have been proven to have 1,572 cases of illegal and shameful listening to President Aleksandr Vukic and his family. Can you imagine how one of us would feel if they listened to his father, brother, and son? They had only one wish, to bring down President Alexander Vukic from power in one way or another, or by political means or by liquidation. Fortunately, they failed, and God will never succeed. That's why we have to point to all the mob tentacles in various organizations, because they've become aggressive. Here's lawyer Gajic drawing a target at the head of our president. They are not still, and they themselves were participants in various corruption affairs. Not to take time here now, not to remind myself of the affairs of the Democratic Party, the former regime until 2012. They have kidnapped not millions, not hundreds of millions, but billions of euros have stolen from Serbian citizens. We had not a bad one, but a criminal privatisation of two thousand years and a number of other affairs. They crashed one institution at a time. Mrs Popovic, you know, eventually they brought down the judiciary. If it hadn't been for political change in 2012, the question is whether today would have made sense and if there was a Ministry of Justice, because they had tentacles everywhere. 28/2 JJ/IĆ They not only elected their people on the political line at the Agency, then called it – to fight corruption, it seems to me that it was founded in 2009 or 2010, they chose judges and prosecutors who wanted them at the meetings of the municipal and city boards of DS and their satellites in the parties of the former DOS. That time has passed, now a new time has come, it has not come, but this new time has come in 2012 and now, and we have witnessed it, the strongest fight against the mafia in the history of not modern but even in Serbia's history. That is why we need to support not only these staff proposals, because the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is just one of the links in this fight, but we also have to give support to those who are honest, and these are the most people who are employed both in the judiciary and in the security structures and in the MUP, who, congratulatingly, courageously, strongly, strongly, as my predecessors have said, are without fear fighting corruption. Fighting corruption is a prerequisite for fighting the mafia. As far as the community I come from, the Witch, we have a terrible situation, the tentacles of certain clans were everywhere. Fortunately, the MUP, the BIA and all those involved break one at a time the tentacle of that clan. I hope that now it will be clearly shown whose is the Vela Nevolja, whose all the trouble is Vela Belivuk and as far as the former regime is concerned and as far as the co-operation group in the MUP and other institutions is concerned, let's see who's been helping all of Veli Nevolja. When I say the Great Trouble, I mean the ones next to, above and below, all the ones he worked with and all the ones who helped him. We're witnessing arrests these days. The authorities are doing their job. On this occasion, I'm giving them full support with the desire to explore everything to the end, so let's see who's been working with the Great Neglect. Look, we have a serious situation in Serbia, some mafia clans and the Eleza clan and the Velya Belivuk clan and their associates and their mini groups of various, not in Serbia but in the region, they wanted to rule Serbia first, as regards the control of various criminal activities and drug trafficking. And that wasn't enough for them either, then they were together with the people of the state structures, and the discovery of the investigation to the end, and how everyone was there, they were making millions, tens and hundreds of millions. It wasn't enough for them either, but they wanted to make a political coup and liquidate President Alexander Vukic. That can't be because Aleksandar Vukic has the strongest security in Serbia. You know who the security chief of Alexander Wolficher is. It has no leader in Europe. It's the people. The people are guarded by our president, and here we are the national tribunals that talk about it. The people are with Alexander Vukic. The people are an absolute majority with Alexander Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the fight against the mafia. That is why, not today, but every day more and more strongly we should support both the Serbian government and President Aleksandr Vukic in the fight against the mafia. In the fight against the mob, we have to win, there's no standing, it's going all the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3860	Thank you. The next on the list is MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3861	Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the draft law, i.e. a decision on the election of a president, deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. First of all, let me remind you again here at the National Assembly's home a little bit about the history of development of both postal and telecommunications traffic in Serbia. The beginnings date back more than two centuries and relate to the need for safe and timely transmission of important messages from Serbian military leaders and rulers. So in 1805, during the First Serbian Uprising, a letter-transmission network was organised, and in 1811 so-called mezulans were opened, these were preceding today's post office. On June 7, 1840, is one very important date. Then a public postal traffic started and then the first post office opened in Belgrade in Calemegdan. In 1843, a law was created that defines the basic principles of mail as public service. He was called "The Order of the Post Office" or "The Order of the Post Office". “ It happened 178 years ago. So, the state of Serbia almost two centuries ago had one law that regulated postal traffic and then there was one serious state, as it is today. In 1885, telegraph traffic was introduced by sending the first telegram on the Belgrade-Kragujevac route, i.e. Kragujevac-Belgrade. That year and that date are related to the development of Serbian telecommunications. In 1874, Serbia is one of the 22 countries in the world that establish the World Post Federation, and so year after year, from decade to decade, both postal and telecommunications services are developing in our country's space. In 1989, the Public Enterprise of PTT Traffic in Serbia was established, and eight years later it was transformed into holding, so we have two "Post-Serbia" and "Telecom Serbia" companies operating as an independent business entity. As postal and telecommunications services developed, more operators on the market appeared and a competition took place. It was therefore very important for this area to be arranged to enable, above all, the successful implementation of liberalisation in the telecommunications or postal services sector. When we talk about the arrangement of an area we should keep in mind, first of all, three things. It's a legal framework, then institutions and human factors. I'll talk about that human factor first. The human factor is the basis of successful law enforcement and management of all institutions and everything comes from people, from their work, their diligence, their commitment, their expertise. I am personally pleased that Dragan Kovacevic has been re-proposed president of the RATEL Management Board, because it is a man who has a great and rich experience, both life and work, professionally. It's seen in a biography that's attached to the candidacy. Since I come from the PTT system myself, I know well what Mr. Kovacevic was doing, and I am familiar with all the results of his work. He performed a significant series of functions in his working century. He was the director of theOUR in Ruma, then director of the Sremska Mitrovica Working Unit, director of the Directorate for Networks at Telecom Serbia, and in 2004 he became the Director General of Post-Serbia. After returning to Telekom again, in 2010, he heads "Iritella", a private company, where he is today. Today, my colleagues working in Serbia's post office and Sremska Mitrovica are greatly praised, talking about Mr Kovacevic, his work, his expertise, but above all about his relationship with his employees. I had the personal pleasure and honour of being elected the best worker of "Post of Serbia" in 2004 and I personally received one award from Mr Kovacevic. I think that's enough to say how much one man as a manager, one director of the Public Enterprise, such as the Post Office of Serbia, takes care of the staff and how dedicated he is to work and how much he gives to every man who works in the big system. I can argue with great responsibility that he is the best candidate for the chairman of the Management Board, because he has also worked under the Post Office of Serbia, Telecoma Serbia, in the private sector, and as she has said today, distinguished Minister Mrs Matic, he is indeed the best expert who can be chairman of the Management Board. I've read the biographies of the other candidates in detail, and it's really about people, top professionals who, I believe, will successfully perform membership on the RATL Management Board. When we talk about the framework, or institutions, here, first of all, I mean operators that appear in the market for telecommunications and postal traffic. At the end of 2019, we had alongside Telecom Serbia, which is the largest operator of 40 other operators dealing with fixed telephony services. We have three network operators mobile phone service. These are Telecom Serbia, Telenor, VIP and two virtual mobile operators. When we talk about the postal services market, there are 59 commercial service operators including "Post-Serbia" as a public postal operator. When we talk about the legal framework, I'll put my accent on the Post Office Act. It's the law of 2019. I fully understand that here in the report that RATEL delivered to us, and in general in the conversation on the development of postal and telecommunications services, we devoted more time to telecommunications. They're much more advanced today, a lot of money is being invested, but more is being obtained from telecommunications. I think this postal service sector may be a little bit foreign and we need to pay more attention, above all to the legal framework and what it brings. I can say that this law does not apply equally to "Serb Mail" as a public operator and to other market operators that appear, because, above all, they do not respect the law in one small volume. I think it's very important that the Agency reacts and presents its reports with a real state of affairs. I will only list some members of the law that I consider necessary special attention. Article 2 The postal traffic law says that the provision of postal services is based on principles. In point 4. – providing conditions for the equal operations of postal operators, and in paragraph 10. – ensuring the sustainability of the universal postal service. In Article 3(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: – a public postal operator is a legal person with the obligation to provide universal postal services and the right to provide spare postal services. Article 18 defines a universal postal service, and the Public Enterprise "Post-Serbia" is authorised to perform this service. Article 24 defines a reserved postal service which is entrusted to a public operator and in paragraph 1 says that – receiving or processing or transporting and delivering written mails is less than 50 grams. Why is this important? In the process itself, the separation of Telecom from "Post" and when it joined the liberalisation process, when "Post" was no longer the single operator on the market, it had a monopoly on those shipments of up to 100 grams. It's up to 50 grams today. I believe that we have very quickly reduced that threshold from 100 grams to 50 grams, because "Post Office of Serbia" as a public operator with a lot of responsibility, I argue that it has not been fully prepared for this competition. Part of the law that determines postage is defined by members from 29th to 34th. Article 29 says - The Agency establishes unique tariff positions according to the rate of mass of postal mailing and types of postal services in the field of universal postal service. Article 31 says - Postage for postal services will be determined so that it does not constitute an unfair price in terms of the law governing competition protection. Where the Agency finds out that the postage is not determined in accordance with Article 1, it shall, without delay, notify the competent competition authority and request its opinion or propose to initiate proceedings in the event of a prevention or distortion of competition when it comes to a postal operator who has a dominant position on the market. Article 48 of the Law states that in the event of a failed delivery of a registered postal consignment, a postal operator is required to leave a report on the arrival of a consignment containing a notice of the time limit and where the recipient may take over the postal consignment. Why am I quoting these members of the law? As an employee in the post office of Serbia, I had the opportunity to perform a number of different functions. One of them was the job of Head of the First Order, 22320 in India. Often in contact with users, I received information that certain operators do not comply with the rules, both in the domain of reserved postal services, and in the part of disrespecting their own pricer. This results in a breach of the principle defined by Article 2. A law I've just stated. Despite the fact that a public postal operator has the exclusive right to a reserved service, it is a service of up to 50 grams, some public utility companies do not comply with the law and have themselves provided bills for their services, which is contrary to the legal principles. The Indjia Municipal Administration, 2008 and 2012, along with a warning that the infringement of the law itself was giving citizens calls for a vote in the local parliamentary and presidential elections, and we all know at that time that the president of the Indjia municipality was also... Democratic parties, Goran Jesic, who did not respect the law and that is proof of how much the former coalition treated the state of Serbia, but also of all its institutions, including "The Post of Serbia". Public postal operator, "Post-Serbia" has to strictly apply a price list for its services to how many employees, literally, for one gram does not charge well, it comes into a kind of problem, can be sanctioned, both by the manager, both from the internal audit sector, while individual postal operators themselves determine the price list, or themselves determine the mass, and thus affect competition on the market. Of course it's not good and it needs to be eradicated, first of all, I see the impact and importance of this agency, to regulate this area. Only a public postal operator after a failed attempt to deliver senders leaves a report on the arrival of consignments, while other operators on the market via a telephone call informs users of the following delivery, thus infringing Article 48 of the law, and very often the postal service users are rebelled and are often in doubt when and where certain postal shipments can be obtained if they are obtained through some other operators. These are just some of the examples where other market participants do not apply the law and where the Agency should react that the postal operator public, "Post-Serbia", would not be in an unfavourable situation and position from other operators on the market. To be clear, I am not opposed to liberalisation and the existence of competition, it is necessary, it should exist and it is necessary, but as representatives of citizens, as MPs, we must take care of the public good, and the public postal operator is exactly that -- one public great good that is of great importance both for Serbia's economic development and for Serbia's security in general. Of course, in the voting day, I will support the proposed candidates with a desire for successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3862	I thank Parliamentarian Tomislav Jankovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3863	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, today's topic and all that we are discussing today from my angle of observation, I think we do not have enough of this time that we have today, because the topics are both serious and of great importance to the citizens of Serbia, and in previous discussions we have been able to hear what examples we have in the past and what has been happening and why this great attention is being paid to RATL, but also to the staff solutions concerning the election of members of the Greater Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. I think that in the last few hours, as far as this discussion is going on, we've heard countless examples, and I'm not sure which topic we'd have to discuss more, but I'm going to define that in my discussion I'm just going through some of the things that bother the citizens of Serbia the most and that we're going through those topics that I'm going through every day in conversation with people I meet on the street or in conversation with people who know me. When we talk about RATEL and talk about their sense of existence, people in the discussion always mention media, the conditions in which the media works, the freedom of the media, how those media are treated according to the reporting and information of citizens and always where that information is carried out, but on specific issues, concrete examples, as my colleague, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, most often do not get an answer. The exact examples that point to absurdities, illogicalities, exact examples that show that the same rules do not apply to everyone, as someone is privileged, as someone is punished, clearly show us how much more we must do on this plan and not just as a society, but also the people who sit in those institutions have to do their own proposals, have to help us as the Assembly, as MPs to meet and all the criticisms that we bring here, opinions, to respect and to sort of translate them into actions and concrete results, because it is in the interests of Serbian citizens. When we talk about certain media violations of basic human rights to us representing the SNS or sitting in Parliament of the National Assembly, when we talk about endangering the security of President Alexander Vukic and his family, it's all being carried out and somewhere it's not taken seriously enough. However, when you have a situation to make things even, you get the strongest possible reaction of all the media under direct control of Dragan Gilas, and then his parties, associates, coalition partners and former DS partners who are now predicating to return to power. What's this about? Yesterday the news came out that the father of a missing young man was invited to present himself to him as Veljko, to direct him to a portal to whom he would call and where he would be able to make his statement. It's about the KRIK portal, or how they're already being defined, and many media outlets passed it on today and yesterday. So, that man's statement. The followers of Dragan Gilas, along with their other portals, other newspapers, other channels and all other appliances in their hands, raced faster and better to condemn and who better to attack. One of the few, and one of us 250 MPs in the O.R., who has only set an example of how double archeons are now in force, has since last night been the subject of the most monstrous campaign and is now being run against by a hack. This is about Mr. Vladimir Orlic, vice president of the National Assembly, the SNS MP whose only sin yesterday was to set an exact example. For the sake of public truth, I will only read what Mr. Orlic wrote and which is why today and yesterday is being satanized by all those who thus wish to court Dragan Gilas. So, “Tajkun media, their accomplices, who all together serve only to unwittingly lead the chase through miserable attempts to criminalize and slander one family, ” so the family of Alexander Vukic and did not lie, for we have witnessed this, not for months, but years ago,“ they are now lurking out of the pit that others have dug up. ” So you know of the people's pit, and whoever digs another pit, he goes into it himself. "It is dangerous when they say you have something to do with crime. Since when? “ So Mr. Orlic just pulled the parallel out and put it in the same plane as we've been talking about for years. So, it's terrible if some printed press releases one man's statement. This is so terrible and these media have to be shut down, their executives and editors to process themselves, and what I'm talking about I'm going to read to you later, and it's not a problem when on their TV shows in hours and so on, the family of Alexander Vukic is criminalized for days with all of Andrej Vukić, with all of Danil Vukic, and with all those pictures of any convicted criminals standing in the background, who are legally and convicted and who cannot be brought into the same context with Danil Vukic. So that's not the same, and it's a big problem, the respected citizens of Serbia, which you now have no right to point out that the Vucic family is being dumped and criminalised for years, and when a medium only delivers a statement, it turns out to be an attack on these media and it turns out to be an attack on these journalists. They feel threatened and threatened, and how does the family of Alexander Vukic feel and how does his son feel when for days, weeks, months and years the media directly controlled by Dragan Gilas participate in his and his criminalization, so to God in some segments and in Satanization? That there is no end to this hypocrisy and danger it gives itself for the right of Dragan Gilas to conduct in the future, it also speaks of a statement by his party, where he now praises the KRIK portal and conclude in the last paragraph – the Freedom and Justice Party requires the prosecution to immediately process the main editors of the tabloids who knowingly and with the intention of their false announcements put KRIK journalists at risk. So people who lie back for years to the nation that there is some discrimination, some censorship of the media, here clearly show and want some media to shut down and shut down, and their editors to process, arrest, or whatever it is they define. If he wasn't alone in this, until yesterday his enemy was disintegrated and the DS is now his follower, so I'm not even sure who else will show up, because Boris Tadic had one statement, so he changed that statement, but then Lutovac, the mercenary Dragan Gilas, showed up, so the DS Information Service continued in that spirit, and they are now calling for the same responsibility that, God forbid, if anything happens to those journalists, everyone is directly responsible. Let's just make a difference. Never a journalist, nor a Serbian citizen should be threatened because of what he writes, reports or whatever you want to define, but everyone must bear responsibility for the spoken word. If you have made a lie, if you have deliberately endangered someone, tendingly, I agree that you must answer, but unfortunately, from the example stated by Mr Risticevic, for some media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, it is obviously neither our law nor the one in Luxembourg is relevant. They can't stand it. This is about an exact injustice, and that's why I want the citizens to hear examples like this and know. This isn't the end of all this, because since last night, Vladimir Orlic, our fellow MP, is an object of one, so it can be said that ticks, organized hickeys, and attempts to get his tweets out of context. Why? Just because he told the truth. That's a very big problem. It turns out that you as a MP or as someone who belongs to the SNS have absolutely no right to say anything, but you just have to keep your mouth shut and take blows, and even if you don't answer their lies. Well, I'm sorry, we'll never agree on that. As far as personnel and human resources are concerned about corruption, I think my colleagues have made a lot of examples, and I'm not going to particularly look back on that, because in a discussion on the addition of the Law on the Origin of Assets, I think I've said a lot of things, but to people who will be elected tomorrow in voting day, I want first of all to recommend that they be much more successful than their predecessors and that they perform their functions according to the fact that everyone has to be equal before the law. I hope that this Law on the Origin of Assets, which takes effect, seems to me, on Friday, that everything that happens in the next period will clearly show that no one is protected and that the party's book is not protecting anyone. But we can't talk about corruption that way without neglecting the person who's synonym for corruption in our country, and that's Dragan Gilas. His affairs, embezzled money, staged tenders and everything he did while he was mayor of Belgrade, I think I've discussed both myself and my colleagues a hundred times. Somehow, we have the last hope in this law, because so far no one has found fit to check how from a failed entrepreneur, a chewing gum salesman, so now we hear a window washer, comes to the richest man in this part of Europe. How is it that your empire begins to grow in proportion to that when you enter politics? For the sake of truth, a man reported entering politics, 74 thousand euros in savings, a car used by the SAB and the wife's house. In 2018, when elections were held for the City Assembly, where I am today a councilman and head of the SNS parliamentary group, a man reported it himself, so that's this pile of paper, I don't want to read here now and not take up time and to that, only in real estate reported 25 million euros. I'd like someone to explain to me what logic comes to that? How and how do you get so rich in eight years? Yeah, he sold the SAB, probably, which is what a colleague of Jovanov says, probably. Then explain to me, if I participate in politics and power you were those about eight years old and you earned only in real estate, and that's what you reported, 25m euros, with simple mathematics, you made about three million euros a year. Explain to me how? You're not even some football, you're not a basketball player, I don't even know that you were an IT expert, and that industry was so developed these years, so I'm wondering how you managed to make that kind of money? Unfortunately, all our questions remain silent, but I hope that this law, which comes into force on Friday, will raise many questions, and that, God, we, these people we choose tomorrow, will address not only this example, but any similar phenomenon in our society, from whatever side we come from. I think that SNS policy is accurate and that President Aleksandar Vukic is clear when dealing with the mafia, organised crime, corruption, must not be selective, but must be accounted for until the end. That all that has happened in our country in the last days and weeks has upset already mentioned Dragan Djilas, show examples that have happened today and show how nervous there is in the ranks of former regime representatives, then gathered in the DS, and now broken into several parties, and today, I think that Mrdic mentioned it, experienced another statement by Vladimir Gajic. I heard about that man the first time he was mentioned in that Geneks affair when he was arrested for inciting 62 million dinar embezzlement. It's a man who, in his public statements, has repeatedly offended and called upon the lynch and murder of his political inexperiences, but when you have someone who has been discredited as a person on many occasions, then you realize that his intention must always be final and that it is always malicious. Today, he gave himself the right to once again draw a target on President Aleksandar Vukic and his family with a statement, of course, and thus to degrade the state's fight against the mafia, to relativise it, to declare that this is not an act against the mafia, but that Aleksandar Vukic is fighting against competition. I was not many years old when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed, but I remember on the internet I found similar articles, similar writings when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was placed in the same basket with the mafia. It's been done for months and years now. This is another in a series of indicators of organized and orchestrated attacks on President Alexander Vukic. That she was not alone in all of this, she had to prove herself and the mention of Marinika Tepic, who was on the payroll and employed by one of the wealthy companies Dragan Djilas, who at the press conference again brought up a series of lies, and this is the person who, even because of her lies, had to be denied from the Russian Federation's Foreign Ministry. Not to remind you of that famous blamantic statement that there is a marijuana plantation in Morovic, they were coke carriers. Not to remind you of what lies she spoke about both Krusik and Jovanica, along with that Alexic, so Alexic is now a proven liar, because the court found that neither Alexander nor Andrej Vukic had anything to do with it. The person who signed and submitted a motion for a genocide resolution in Srebrenica, a person who used her ties to the criminal faces to threaten and intimidate journalists in Pancheva and thus evicted them, are images with this gentleman, if that is so called, a person representing the interests of Dragan Gilas, who is sitting next to a man who has been arrested for 66 kilos of marijuana, a person who represents and defends the interest and promotes Dragan Gilas, whose former brother-in-law, or at that moment, has been arrested with a larger amount of cocaine on Brank's bridge, a person whose boss, and the man who pays the painting with this Japanese, and we know everyone who is and what he is, today, with the latest twitching of some political hysteria, is trying to criminalise Alexander Vukic in the one who has already been clarified, and this is the subject of listening. As we could hear, in those 1572 conversations, which were recorded or whatever, nothing discrediting about Alexander Vukic or his family exists. But for nothing, you proved it, when Marinika Tepic has no problem telling the truth, when you break that truth to her in the truth, she smiles, she goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. I had to put this all out for the simple reason that today is such a day that in hysteria and excessive anxiety in that part of the opposition, and above all, there is no thing for the representatives of the former DS regime that they will not invent to sort of discredit all that the Serbian government is doing, what the members of the MUP are doing, and above all, what Alexander Vukic promised. With this, I will end up with all candidates who are elected to these positions tomorrow and these personnel solutions that have been made, and I want a lot of happiness and success in the work and I want them always to be guided by the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because they are chosen for it. I want you, dear minister, a lot of courage to endure in this struggle and to make our country an even more beautiful and even safer place to live, because only with respect for the law, justice and sanctioning of all those who commit crimes, we will be able to create Serbia for our children just as we wish. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3864	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3865	I thank you, the chairman, the honourable minister with the associate, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In fact, 18 members were proposed in a very transparent manner, so there is nothing to add. These people are being checked, there's a lot of judges. I am sure that they will do their job with honor and responsibility, as I expect from our minister, her associates, from the judiciary and the prosecution. Namely, the SNS has zero tolerance for corruption, which is one of the SNS goals. I like it very much, because no one is spared, no tycoons, no one, ordinary citizens, no us officials, no one. That's how it's supposed to be. Why? Because right now, we have two clans preparing to kill our president, and among other things, there are some people involved here. So they're together, we're not going to prejudge things, we're going to see what the prosecution says, what the judiciary says, but there are people involved, who work together with these clans, which is inadmissible. Thanks to Mr. Alexander Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, we are all here today, we officials, all directors of public enterprises, all who are doing something for this country, should do our job with honor and responsibility, not steal. It's just that when we get off this function, we're no longer in office, to say, these are honest and honest people, everyone who's ever been, not thieves. You know the name of the former DOS regime? Well, 50% normal people, 50% thieves. I don't want it to be like that in SNS. All those who have done anything against the law should answer, who has taken the money, should return the money to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is it normal for some of our officials, so since 2012, we have been in power to drive a 400,000-euro car? Gentlemen, 400,000 euros. That's five, six apartments for people who don't have apartments. Is it normal for her to be in the field with a click that she wanted to kill the president? Well, it's not normal, and that's why I want the D.A.'s office to do its job and all these people to be where they belong -- behind bars, whoever it is, if it's my fault, I, if they're my friends, them. Anyone, no one is stronger than the state. Let's just remember October 5th. The informants of that time and present say they fought for freedom. What kind of freedom? They tried to burn down this assembly, and there were all kinds of pieces of art gone, furniture that wasn't returned today, and there's still a smelt and smell down in the basement. This is our wealth, this is culture, this building is the most beautiful building in Serbia next to the Academy of Sciences and others. She needs to be looked after. If someone wants to change power, it's not done by violence, it's never violence, it's violence, it's violence, it's the program. Come out, we have next year's election, go out with the program, give the program, if it's better than the SNS program, people will vote for you, not stealing, thieves. Gilas 619m euros, where do people come from? Just now, Mr. Mirkovic said he reported one apartment of 64 thousand euros and his wife's house. From where? In what, ten years, where did 619 million euros come from? Where did Jeremic get a 1m-euro Vrakar apartment? Let's see if there's an apartment here, no matter what million euros, it's for us a thought noun. Where did he get an apartment in New York? I don't mind, let them have 15 houses, but let them prove the origin of those houses. Where did he get seven million euros for the campaign? Someone who gave it to him is probably looking for something in return, let's see what. Where'd you get the Sutan's apartment on Vracar? He declared it the pasture of the seventh category. Please, this is where the intellectuals sit, the other ones don't sit, so we're not cut. Please, the 7th category of land on Vracar has duplexes and who knows what it has. Where do I get flats from in Vienna? From where, people? That's rude. Now let's see in order. In June 2011, a letter arrived in Belgrade from Brussels, unfortunately to the late Mrs Verica Barac, who was chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council, to investigate 24 controversial privatisations. Let's go in order: "Evening News", "Keramika Kanjiza", Veterinary Institute, Sartid, "Technochemia", exports of sugar to the EU, "Putnik", "Serbia Turs", "Sinvoz" from Zrenjanin, "National Savings", "Mobtel", "C Market", you remember these huge affairs, Radulović and "C Market", "Luka Belgrade", "Zavat elektro", "Azotare Pančevo", "Srbolek", "Trudnik Construction", "Prosveda", conversion "Delreala", "Nuba", concession for highway Horgoš - Požega, "Galenika". It's just a request from Brussels. Imagine, so they collapsed, devastated, robbed 640 companies and so devastated they returned to the state. How many people do you think lost their job? In 2008 alone, over 400,000 people. They're their families. So, a million people were left without bread and in 2008, employment was 26%, and today, with strong investments, thanks to our president's credibility, 7.5% of the unemployed tended to be 5% in a year's time. We only remember the average salary in 2012, it was 320 euros, and today 550 with a tendency to be over 900 euros by 2025. That's how it works. There's no stealing. No one's protected, and I'm really saying for the fifth time -- anyone who's stolen, has to pay back, doesn't matter if they go to jail, has to go to jail, do community service, and get their money back. Let's just remember Agrobank. They've devastated her. How? Because they took tycoons without cover. The rest owe 84 million. What? Who paid back the debts? The Serbian Progressive Party, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We won in 2012, paying back people's debts, what to do, paying back their savings. Think of only the most fertile orna in Vojvodina. 300 000 hectares were sold for 50m euros. Do you know what it's worth now? Three-and-a-half billion are worth those bracelets that were sold to the Duke. You guys know what we can do with 3.5 billion euros? We can finish the Moravia Corridor, finish Corridor 11, the whole, finish Karadjord and Frushkogorski. It's an enormous amount of money to pay back. No, that was all in private pockets. Shame on you, it never happened again. What else can I say? Perhaps another affair of hundreds of affairs that rocked the country from 2000 to 2012. It was so unthinkable for me that someone... It was meant to be built at the New Vienna home for children distracted by development and, of course, from that children's home distracted by development, they made one board that says "Home for Children Disrupted in Development" and costs a million euros. Someone stole a million euros. Home was never finished until that year 2012. We finished it. I want people who have stolen to be definitely processed and set an example for young generations, to know that no one must ever steal from the state, that it is an honor to be in parliament or in any state function and that we should work for the state, that we pay the state tax, not to take from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3866	Thank you. Let me inform you that the remaining time for the parliamentary group is Alexander Vukitch - for our children 52.5 minutes. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3867	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at these two points that we are discussing - Proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services and another point - a proposal for candidates for selecting members of the Greater Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, one would say that, apart from the fact that the National Assembly is performing its, of course, entrusted electoral function, these two points of the agenda have nothing in common. It would probably have been so that Serbia was a normal country about ten and over years ago. Nothing other than the election authority of the National Assembly would have been common to these two points of the agenda, but unfortunately, ten and over years ago, Serbia was not a completely normal country, not because it had an abnormal people, Serbian citizens and how normal they were, but because we had an abnormal leadership, or former regime. I guess under that desire to show that they are something honest and that they do not want a state in which corruption exists, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed. This law, which I can't say was too bad, created some frameworks in which the fight against corruption should work, legal frameworks and set up some kind of agency to enforce the provisions of this law and control public officials whether they are pursuing conflicts of interest and corruption. And all of this would be normal if our Agency had done this job at full capacity, but our Anti-Corruption Agency didn't essentially deal with it, they were in shape. The form was next, that most often, as far as corruption was concerned, it ended on the MPs, those who had no executive powers, but only those who had been given the law, which is by the Constitution to present their opinion and vote in the National Assembly. Now, if an MP, for example, forgot to report two or three acres of fruit trees that he inherited, and he forgot because he never used it, ever, he risked getting criminal charges from the Anti-Corruption Agency to cover up his assets. And you, when you're looking, purely legally, the Agency would be right and satisfying the form, but that's not the essence of that agency. That property was acquired by inheritance, and why would anyone cover it up? Why would anyone cover up any property acquired in a legitimate manner? Where is the creature of this crime, what did our Agency interpret? He's gone. And here are the entire wars between the representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the MPs, of course, about what is the essence of the Anti-Corruption Agency's work. Let's just say, is that the point that you, as the founder of a company, don't receive, say, a functional salary? You have the right to represent this company in front of all other bodies, banks, to conclude business contracts and so on. If you are receiving a salary, you must empower another person, but you must certainly transfer your management rights, and you, by our Agency, have completed your form of not achieving a conflict of interest and corruption for the business of this company. We now have the following situation that the owner, also the mayor of Belgrade, who was then Dragan Gilas, with our Public Service is concluding the contract and on the basis of this contract, is making an enormous profit that counts hundreds of millions of euros, and our Anti-Corruption Agency does not determine the trade in influence achieved by Dragan Gilas when he concluded a contract with our Public Service or RTS. Now, that essence was always missing during the former regime. They were in shape, they were in stupidity, they were counting the trees that the MP had in some orchard. It concludes a contract with a state-owned company, state and abductions of hundreds of millions of euros and the Agency is silent. I understand that you can't, that you can't prevent anyone from carrying out any action and that there was no legal regulation that would prevent them at that time, but if any public official, any of the president of the municipality, the president of the local self-government unit, the mayor, the minister, the MP has any obligation relationship with any company that is in the state property, public enterprise, the institution, I am for that contract to be published on the Anti-Corruption Agency website, even when they do that to its connected persons. Then that marifetteluk that Dragan Gilas made wouldn't be possible, we'd all know about it. Or I believe in his haughtiness and that would be possible. You know, it's a lot of pride when someone says, "It's not true that I earned 300m euros that year, but 291 million and some thousand." That's blasphemy. I think it would have a much faster impact on their departure from power and much less damage would have done them more than they've done for all these years. Why am I saying that all this is connected, even this topic? The second thing concerns the Commission, i.e. the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications. So, two tycoons, one Dragan Gilas, another Solak. How did it happen that Solak became richer even than Miskovic and the company "Delta"? This one is a major pest, nothing less harmful than the School by using Solak's state resources, just like Dragan Gilas, which is why these two points are connected. When this cable operator was created, it was derived from nothing. He had a very small founding stake, a very small trade capital, but they had an impact trade. In order to achieve any electronic, inter-mind communication, you need a certain infrastructure. Only our two companies in all of Serbia, regardless of their ownership structure, and both were state-owned, had such infrastructure. They were "The Post of Serbia" and "Telecom of Serbia". They were renting electronic traffic, which was at cost, as Gilas bought cheap seconds from RTS and began to make their own empire by using state resources and did not object to Telecom or "Serb Post". Whether they're bold or not, I don't know. Were they involved in this work? They probably are. Were they, uh, the leadership of these organs rewarded? It probably is, but the lack of substance at the Anti-Corruption Agency allowed it. Later in a later period, it went further and further, so there was little state property, they also started to use the property of local self-government, you know where I couldn't put the cables under the ground was very expensive, they didn't even work, and certain infrastructures, and I mean the "Electro-price of Serbia" or local self-government in whose ownership was public lighting, without any compensation they used public lighting as cablers that transmitted cable signals. They didn't pay anyone. They didn't pay anything. They hijacked the "Electroprivreda of Serbia", as they climbed on their pillars and took electrical energy to function. They went so far as to abuse even the combined consumption of electricity in buildings where they would separate electricity. That's how far it went. When Telecom under public pressure and under the pretext of being modernised, it began its distribution of cable signal, it was very poor and very poorly done to Telecom. I'm responsible for that. Even if, and many citizens, the vast majority of citizens in Serbia are patriots, so 90% of citizens would have been able to choose between two equal cable operators at that time, they chose Telecom, but it was not possible. Even those who chose "Telecom" experienced the same "Telecom" to reduce cable or internet signal flow in favour of the SBB that was their competition. So even for the quality of the service, they couldn't measure with the SBB, and that the "Telecoma" shame was bigger, the SBB used the infrastructure of the same "Telecoma". Now, because of the leadership we had in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, it was also possible for Dragan Gilas, as well as Sollaku to crush hundreds of millions of euros. This second and day today, because the contracts he signed are so difficult to break up with certain benefits that you can hardly do anything to him without ending up in front of some international arbitration with a message that you would lose. I ask the question - what did our Anti-Corruption Agency do then? What kind of leadership led "Telecom", in what conflict of interest were they in with Solak and Gilas, because later it is shown that both work together, that they were like nails and meat in how to cheat the state, how to deceive Serbian citizens and how to make themselves famously rich? I hope that time is finally behind us. I see really serious shifts in both the functioning and the Anti-Corruption Agency and all regulatory bodies to work at the full capacity to use such abuses by the former regime led by tycoons Dilas, Solak, from the shadow of Miskovic, Kostic and others never happen again. Don't blame us for this every time we have a chance to talk. We will talk to Serbian citizens about how they abused their trust in poverty, how they became richer and how they stole the quality years of life that no one could bring back to anyone. As our citizens were left out of work because of their abuses, as our children went abroad, not because they loved, but because Serbia led by Solak, Gilas and the rest of the company had no future, nor did they have a future in it. We'll always say that. They can scare us with their portals, they can scare us with their media, we work exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens, along with Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and we will never again allow such tycoons to rule Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3868	Thank you. The next speaker is Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3869	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I say about the agenda, since he mentioned me in his discussion, not me, but one part of the MP, one of our honourable MP, let me say about fear, we do not have any fear, especially as far as I'm concerned. The citizens know that very well. He couldn't scare me or Nais in The Hague, so neither will Dragan Gilas and his associates. Neither could Vladimir Seks in the Parliament of the 1990s, nor could Francis Tudjman. The truth will always come out sooner or later. Let me put it this way, to the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Vladimir Orlic. Honorable MPs, respected citizens, are attacking him because he is worthy, ambitious, responsible, a student has been outstanding, a scholarship from the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia and is a happy party whose party Vladimir Orlic is in. Let me say about these members of the Council for the Prevention of Corruption that they have passed all procedures, that the ministry and certain authorities have conducted procedures and it is evident that all candidates are professional, trained and worthy of the functions to be performed by those chosen. As for the corruption that has been talked about here today, many have done very well for me, let me say, however, that she is not since yesterday. She's from ancient times. Aristotle still warned about it, but in order for the principle of democracy and equality of all citizens to be realised before the law, we must then fight corruption. So that's the point. However, it is known in science that there are several forms, but there are three forms of corruption that are important in our country as well. First, it is white corruption, the achievement of privileges based on family and friendly ties without the expected counterservices. Dear Vice President, you know that I will by no means speak and answer for every word spoken in this high house, regardless of how the media under the leadership of Dragan Gilas will convey, and I know that they take it from context, and then spread it to their media and academic citizens some of whom I cannot believe to bear the title of a doctor without looking at the original, and in the record of the National Assembly, about it another time. When we talk about white corruption of privileges based on related and friendly ties, without the expected counterservices, the worst example is Bojan Pajtic. It's just these days that he's showing up. If I were him, believe me, I'd never walk the streets of that city in the city where he lives. Why? He believed it or not, ladies and gentlemen, here's some answers to the citizens of Serbia, I call it, let him say is it true that he and the Executive Council hired 470 of his relatives somewhere? That's not just me, that's what his colleague from DS Goran Jesic says. He said – Pajtic employed at the Executive Council of the Duke's Aunts, watch out, 20th generation, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws, snorkels and godmothers, finished quote. Of the 670 employees, he brought to 670 out of 270 when he became president of the Executive Council, 17/09/2014, said Goran Jesic, his second from the Democratic Party. I now call upon NGOs, the newspaper under the control of Dragan Gilas to check these allegations of mine, not to take them out of context. Secondly, as far as gray corruption is concerned, giving privileges on the principle of service services, I'll tell you one example. It's academic Dusan Teodorovic, he was doing a favor, check this out. He was expelled from the university in May 1999 because of his lack of work and he calls Alexander Vukic daily. You know where he went? In the U.S. and during the bombing he spent two years back and then he tells me about morality. A scientist, despite scientific references, must be fair and moral and must be a patriot. It gives him strength. I'm not saying that he didn't, let him prove he did. Where was he during the bombing? Have him check us from SNS here, see if we were here during the bombing. I'm a lucky man to have my students from that time, today three, four of them here are MPs, not leaving school or college for that time and coming back. You know who hired him with corruption gray? Well, Serbia's Turajlic was an assistant minister. Let her answer and say whether or not she is. He's talking about Alexander Wolfie these days, how can he not be ashamed? And he's saying that we're creating a cult of Alexander Wolfie. Well, we create a cult of work, self-gorge, responsibility, ideas and relations towards the state and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and relations to corruption, and during it, you see, he is one of the actors of that corruption. Let's move on, third kind of corruption, black corruption. It's me to you, you to me in cash. I won't say anything, but let the former regime gentlemen check is it true that five former ministers of the former regime have been arrested? Here, I'll list them: Minister Predrag Bubalo. Is it true that the honourable Members of the People? Is it true that Minister Oliver Dulic was arrested? Is it true or not? I'm just a citizen to remind. Is it true that Dr. Sasa Dragin was arrested, Minister of Agriculture, that Mr. Risticevic knows best, since he knows agriculture best. Furthermore, Minister Dr Sloba Milosavljevic. Here is now every evening some free assembly is formed by him and Dusan Teodorovic. I am not saying that Dusan Teodorovic does not have the right to think, but cannot be covered by the institution he comes from, neither I nor he, if he acts politically. Fifth, was Minister Jasna Matic arrested? Of course it is. To reduce corruption, respected MPs, it is not enough to arrest enough, but first we must work through the education system from preschool to primary schools. Do we do that, judge for yourself. It is one of the tasks of education and education from antiquity to today in many European countries. Furthermore, by educating and educating all levels of education, how it is in higher education, teachers best know. We still have in downtown Belgrade today to set up, let's say, bauk professors hold the topic, report the topic of doctoral dissertation, per year or two do not respond at all to such things. Is that authority? Is that how he fights for his youth? Instead of answering in time within the legal time limit, and here they are every evening by means of information. Why do they do that? They do their own assessment. This isn't just about this, it's about all the universities, and we're going to have to call them when the subject comes to education and education. Furthermore, the adoption of values, virtues, and I often talk about it. You know, we've already been in the '90s, especially in 2000, raised education from educational institutions, and we have to restore it, the educational function of school and society. Otherwise, the situation in which the state came after the bombing, and about the robbery privatisations that I'm not talking about, we had to do some things with accelerated reforms conducted by the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do some other things. But now that what the Institute is doing to improve education and education, I have insight, we will restore education and education where it belongs. Why do I say that? We're setting a global goal and we're state-owned. Is our goal an education? Please really think about this, a versatilely developed personality like we had with a rich mind, which means intellectual, moral, aesthetic, health and work-technical education. This was the goal of raising him and today, unfortunately, he remained, and also in socialism. How is the same objective of education, the general goal of socialism and capitalism? Oh, come on, please, it's a joke to the pedagogues with that. We need to redefine the goal of education. What does that mean? It means we match it to information technologies on one side, but also with character traits of personality. Is our goal only for our child to go after money or is the goal and the other side of personality? If it only goes for information technologies without a combination of one and the other we will have on the streets daily, in bus transport means and in bus stations what is happening today. Gentlemen, honourable Members of the people, what we sow back 20 years today we reap, and what is today, we will see in 20 years. I think we're on our way and we're gonna do everything we can to get all the way to that end. We have strong resistance here. You know, the ones that don't like to work. In life, a man can create everything with work, and that's my countryman Nikola Tesla always says, if we don't, we'll fail. I ask the question, Dragan Gilas, how did he achieve the 619m euros? If he says the work, I ask him in front of Serbian citizens – whose work? Let him answer, not spit on us every night. He pulled MPs from this high house, I quoted you last time, I don't have time now, to go down the street to tear down this country's parliamentary system and say, "What do we need the parliament, who needs it yet?" We'll put them in parliament, take the media, and that's what he was doing in 2000, in the first lines of battle. When he came to power, he took all the money and now again when he sees the hard work he's doing with Alexandera Vukic and the SNS, and I'm not saying that there aren't even those in our party who may be doing the wrong thing, but everyone will come to the agenda. So, as far as corruption is concerned, so much. He needs to know, and I'm gonna finally quote Plato. I quote - all gold located above and below the ground is not enough to be given for the value of virtues. Those virtues, Mr. Gilas should have. Come here and we will fight here with work, order, responsibility and love for each other regardless of political opinion. You're telling us that we sow hate, 65 times in this high house in the last term I didn't go out for breakfast, one president of the opposition party, here, Zoran Zivkovic insulted the president of the National Assembly and the MPs of the SNS, believe it's a human mind that we never told anyone that they were monkeys. He said it directly here in the face, you saw the transmission, not to say what else he was saying and so on. Let me bring this to an end after all. While I'm at Professor Teodorovic's because he sits on Gilas' media every night and spits on us and he says that Aleksandar Vukic is a warlord. Shame on you, Mr. Theodoreovic. You escaped when the ground bombing was. He's not a wrinkle, he's a great Serbian patriot and patriot. And today he's spending all over the region and Europe pedagogy of peace, and he's holding to the dignity of his people and his country. During the time, Teodorovic, you, we haven't built any factories. How much is being built today? There's no factory in this country that you didn't attack when the foundation stone hit. Have you attacked “Belgrade on Water”? Did you attack "The Iron" Smeder's when it worked? Zivkovic said this, I quote on Gilas-controlled television -- "Close Smedereva and send the workers home" finished quote. Here let him say on TV whether it's true that I don't tell him the date when he said it, etc. The problem is theirs, and I'll finish it. They don't have a program. When she was asked by journalist Borko Stefanovic on a TV day before yesterday under the control of Dragan Gilas, she was even embarrassed by the program and released the program. They're not interested in the program. They're just interested in the pockets. What a program. They only attack the Wolf. Their goal is to bring down the Wolf, but there's no theoretical way. What's attacking you, Doctor Orlicou, is the goal, to separate you. There is no force that will separate us from the man who works for the benefit of the state, not me, not Martinovic, not Orlic, not Jovanovic, Risticevic, not Mirkovic, not to list them all. There is no force that will separate us. It couldn't have been in The Hague, Nais. And Nays couldn't do it either, so neither would Dragan Gilas, who, when he entered politics, was to apologize, without shoes, today, all during politics. Let him say whether it's true or not. In the end, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, unlike them, I know this is going to piss them off right now and I'm just glad they're upset. Alexander Vukic is a great Serbian statesman, and that hurts them to tell them, not politicians, but statesman. A major Serbian reformer. Is it or isn't it? A major reformer and a modernizer. We've got a modernization engine at the head, and that's him. What they're trying to do to him and his family right now, I'm not gonna talk about it, because I've been saying it for four years and warning you all the time, and last time. I warned, distinguished citizens, you are witnesses, that it is the girdle of mob-political groups and some presidents of political parties associated with foreign factors. I've been mentioning it for two, three years here and it wasn't for underestimating. While he was building and defending the land and one part of us, the others were robbing it. Shame on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3870	Thank you. The word has Sandra Christmas's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3871	I thank the President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the Honorable People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will make a real effort to briefly speak, to leave time for the speakers behind, I am sure they have more to say on today's subject, to thank all the speakers today and that I am glad to say what you, as Minister of Justice, are today in the plural and that today you have discussed quality issues with us, these two who are, in fact, the one who is closer to you, that is the selection of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is important in a series of things that we would like to prevent in the state of Serbia, and of course, in order of corruption everywhere, in the state administration, above all, and here in the National Assembly among MPs. It is certainly our intention to make all these measures more difficult, to attempt corruption in any way, in any form at all, and to recognise both the state and the system react. It is the essence and it is what the SNS is being led in general, so these days we have the opportunity to see a severe fight against the mafia and crime, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Security and all other security services. Among other things, we saw that everything that happened in the previous period was answered. The answer comes from wooden lawyers, the answer comes from those who are more hearty Veljak Belivuk and members of his criminal defense group than, probably, the lawyer who will defend them tomorrow or be assigned to them. And who is that? Here, today, my colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja, once again, I would say, probably again unsuccessfully, given that we are dealing with political and other forms of cowardice and various moral verticals, invited again to the duel and also to the tycoon media, if Mrs. Marinika Tepic, Zivka, or whatever, I will be confused about the last name, I am afraid, if she finds it more convenient to be on the media held by her owner Dragan Dilas. I didn't happen to say the owner, or employer, because she works for "Multics". That's where he gets his salary. I can see they got younger, but that rejuvenation had to be learned by flying, to safely land in the Freedom and Justice Party. I said, I won't be long, I could talk about it, probably until tomorrow without interruption. Today Biljana Pantic Pilja has asked very important questions about Marinika Tepic, which concerns certain links between Dragan Đilas, Marinika Tepic with drug clans and persons suspected of the most serious crimes and, among other things, with co-operation and participation in all criminal activities that relate to the Zemun clan. So these are all those photos, photo albums that we had the opportunity to see in the previous period, where Marinika Tepic is located with drug dealer Novak Filipović, Dragan Djilas, who is in the Japanese government society, etc. These are the different family ties of those who were selling heroin to our children on the street. There's plenty more. Again, I have little time today to tell which are all corruption, mafia, drug and all other ties between Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic with Serbia's underworld. We saw today, and soon it will be very clear, and perhaps the topic is for tomorrow's debate, certainly in the region. Marinika Tepic, in fact, proved that she and Gilas are directly those who work for those who were the listeners of Serbia's president, Aleksandr Vukic. So, in a keen desire to defend Veljko Belivuk and the criminal circles which, apparently, do not belong to themselves, are their heroines, because I do not know what else and how otherwise her behaviour could be dissipated, she has become today the first subpar of organised crime groups by telling us, first of all, that the president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has been tapped in the past, today my colleagues Milenko Jovanovic, Vladimir Djukanovic, reacted in this sense, and simply has equated with the stupidity unit and thanked her for confirming that the former government had abused security services by listening to political opponents, and we all thank her here together for confirming that she had been in contact with until yesterday's MUP structures, which apparently and apparently participated in listening to the president of Serbia. To make matters even worse, Tepic was definitely in touch with the employer, and I sincerely hope the minister, too, is in the chain of decision-making of those who will come to Serbia with all evidence tomorrow and who will bring justice to those who, in fact, are listeners and those who have prepared, I would say freely, and the assassination of the president of Serbia. The marines actually had a certain task. What was her assignment today? If it is not clear to anyone, it is that this eavesdropping and attempt to attack the president and his family, the son of Danilo, brother of Andrej, is relatively related, by saying that it was not the listening president Aleksandar Vucic, but that the wire was Vacic, an extremist, as Serbian right-wing man, Misa Vacic, who was under measures, so somehow the conversation of Aleksanda Vucic fell into those 1572 times, as he was tapped. This terrible Misa Vacic, a right-wing man, and, as she says, it seems to me that of all she could mention is that he had some kind of weapon that he had no right to hold on to, which certainly is for judgment, but I am not going further into whether Misa Vacic is a criminal or not, because I would certainly say that criminals were those who burned the Assembly, those who entered the Assembly door with their feet, broke, burned, who sought to mark Serbia as a genocidal people, a genocide state. Criminals are all those who put 619 million in their pockets, criminals are all those who cooperated and stormed with drug clans. I would also ask Marinika Tepic if she received 200,000 euros, which we had the opportunity to hear from the public today, from drug dealers and drug clans in Serbia and almost not so far away? In addition, I would also ask her what she was looking for in Pančevo, this drug list of drug dealers in Pančevo has spread quite a bit, and with whom has Novak Filipovic met Marinika Tepic in Pančevo and given her the opportunity to act before the election and, of course, that the operation is absolutely and only directed against SNS and against Aleksandr Vukic? All that was going on about the eavesdropping affair came to an conclusion, and what Milenko Jovanovic noticed in the previous days and here, and that is that the president of Serbia was not caught listening to any criminals, with no criminal actions, and of course, expected to create such nonsense, and this is just nonsense, because Marinika Tepic otherwise cannot explain why she did not mention why she listened to the talks and Danila, the son of the president and why the talks of the president's brother, Andrej, were heard. Well, it's kind of like that Morović, he can't put it in his head, and we probably have a chance to hear about another built-up affair, because it's obvious the love between certain people of the Belivuk clan, and it's obvious that their relationships are obvious and co-operation. I hope that Marinika Tepic will answer these questions. If he doesn't give them here, please, if there is evidence and again I ask the D.A. to deal with the ties of those who call themselves the opposition, and they are none of it, because I claim there are also decent people in the opposition, those who are from the regime of the former government, I will specifically say the name and last name – Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic in the affair of "touching", in the affairs which they have constructed against the state of Serbia by trying to criminalise both the president of Serbia and his family by trying to criminalise important state interests, such as state-owned companies such as "Telecom", such as "Telecom", such as "Telecom", such as "Krusik", etc. I am quite sure that the sniper who shot Belivuk was through that NIN target, which we had the opportunity to see on the front pages of the previous period, was intended for Serbian President Alexander Vukic, and we now had the opportunity to see that it turned out to be true, and the employers, besides Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas, who apparently participated in the entire charade, would please be examined further who he is, and certainly we will not run from it. Yesterday I said from this place that a party book should not and should not and cannot protect anyone. One more thing I wanted to mention today, and it concerns all those who have been synchronised in this action today with the mascot Dragan Dilas and the megaphone of Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, who went into defense of mafia circles and Belivuk clans, and it is certainly those who work for another paid Botov newspaper such as KRIK, paid by Dragan Dilas. Today, they were trying to justify Belivuk's creation and the virtuosity of their mob crime. They also tried, of course, to attack, who knows which way to construct different affairs that would certainly harm the president of Serbia. 37/2 DG/MT Now I ask myself, all those pictures of Danil Vukic on the front page of KRIK, was this link between Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas and the people working at the MUP responsible for fast-moving, promoting these photos and delivering them further to the public? So it's very clear when you add one and one as far as it comes. Also, I would like to be explained whether KRIK is and why is it thought to the public, the one who lives under the tycoon stick of Dragan Gilas, that it is forbidden for any of us or any citizen to think that KRIK has a certain share, co-operation with mob circles? Certainly who has to be equal in front of the law. That goes for the press, too. That's one thing. The other thing, a little light, I'll try to finish, relate to those who belong to this horde and this click, and they have a very interesting name, called the Open Parliament, and I think, for the first time today I mention them, but I just have to, because I see that today they were very busy in that story to join the hack on my colleague Vladimir Orlic. That is what my previous colleague also spoke of, Mr Atlagic, so I would ask only those who abuse the parliament's logo of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you, too, to do something about it, since the Open Parliament first abuses the name Open Parliament, because they are not any parliament, they are just the extended hand of Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic, another megaphone paid in a series. So first of all, to review the use of logos that are daily misleading citizens that they are any kind of parliament and that they have any connection to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then to question these allegations and from here to tell them only one thing. Since you attacked my colleague Vladimir Orlic today that he has designated certain media as tycoon and that he has targeted them, just to let you know one very clear thing. Our 170 here, as many of us as there are from the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic - For our children, feel free to put 170 of our names next to the name Vladimir Orlic on the list you and Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3872	Thank you. Vice-President of the National Assembly and National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3873	Thank you. It will be enough, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, time to share a few words with us how many of us are in the House of the People's Assembly. Certainly, we who belong to the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, this whole day we address those people who will very quickly be elected to the important functions of the Republic Agency for Telecommunications, the Anti-Corruption Agency and point to something that should be in mind. Many things in Serbia today are politics. If it makes sense to you in some sense, it seems to have its own reasons why these are issues that concern, for example, corruption, you should know those people who are going to start looking after important jobs in this country tomorrow that these are the topics that you might not have imagined, at least not at first glance, let's say, issues concerning telecommunications infrastructure. You know very well, and these issues are very much policy today, because when, for example, the tycoon media is doing, they're called rightly, as a contradiction whether or not someone can use common telecommunications infrastructure and make it a political story and allegedly endangering the media, which is nowhere to be found, there's absolutely nothing in anything that's normal and classical competition to provide for their bosses some additional reasons for the cycle, screaming and shit that they would protect their own businesses and their own wealth, so money is always in the middle, money and power, then it's clear to you that there's a strong political dimension for any kind of people, like the School, Gilas there to have their own interest, and then there has to be politics all. Speaking of politics, the main issue of which is today a political struggle, which represents a political dilemma, is a relationship to reality, and it is essentially simple, because what is the reality, is it not difficult for us to conclude whether reality or not, so surely it is, that Serbia today is essentially a completely different state than it was at the time of these tycoons, these thieves and those they served? A fundamentally different, best-changed state. It's a reality, and it doesn't take much. It's enough to look around you, to look at what kind of country you live in, what that country has today, what its people have today, and it was once completely unimaginable. It's a real picture of that reality. Is the reality of today the highways we've been waiting on for decades, and certainly not at the time of those tycoons, who only cared about their pocket, always, and today, and when we talk about corruption, telecommunications, media, their businesses, anything, well, that's the fundamental difference that's seen in reality? Is the reality that we have welcomed, say, these highways, only by the appearance of Alexander Vukic, only by the great scene of that policy that this man has defined, founded, which he is leading us today? Is the reality that this is the result of this policy? Everyone in Serbia knows that today. Is the reality that we have hundreds of thousands, but literally hundreds of thousands more jobs today than it was in those tycoons and these thieves? The fundamental difference and the clear reality that it is. In the past, to remind myself, hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost in this country, it went out, disappeared overnight, because no one had to worry about taking care of it, that they were busy, that Gilassi, Jeremiah, these Schools and others, had more important priorities, they had to think about that money, that power, that power, 619m euros, that we've all heard of. So that was a priority. Many, indeed, are many examples of fundamental differences that show how dramatically this country has changed for the better. There's this kind of reality obvious to everyone. There is also the need for those who want to be in the place of Alexander Vukic, but they are simply not up to it, and there is no way that it will happen, if the people are asked, as should be asked in a democratic, civilized society, to plead in the elections. There is a need for them to deny this reality on every subject, in every possible and impossible way. The fundamental difference is also seen in the fact that today the state is fully clearly defined not to allow neither corruption at the lowest nor highest level, not to allow crime to flourish here at any level. The fundamental difference today is seen in one reality that shows the country’s relationship today to the people who have engaged in crime. Reality shows the state's attitude towards these people by sending these people behind bars. It's a very simple, clear and clear answer to the question of what the state's attitude today is to criminals, to mobsters, to those who dare to steal, but also to kill. Just remember what it looked like at a time when such were an integral part of the state, when they were not just partners, those who were then in power, the former regime, certainly, but were their best friends, were their most important investors. Today, people who used to participate in the former regime publicly say that the former regime, its Gilas, Jeremics and others, brought people like Saric here to be the biggest investors, to be their most important contribution to the development of the economy, imagine who and what. Today again, there is the need for these people to deny reality, one pure, clear, all-understanding fact, that the state with such accounts, that there is no compromise, and that what we are constantly repeating, is clearly seen today, it is quite clear that this is a great truth, there are no those who are privileged in this fight, protected from the law, if they have sinned against that law, there is no. You see that every day based on who the people who are the subject of the interest of the authorities are. This is a clear relationship to the law, to the state, to the people whose country it belongs to. And there's nothing vague about it. As for those who need to deny this reality, they are, of course, involved in those things that are now subject to the interest of the authorities. And you see how the tentacles of that octopus show up every day, but literally every day, that these mobsters who were sent behind bars certainly had their associates within the state apparatus at different levels, so they weren't spared either. And they're subject to the interest of the authorities today. And as the rogue parts of the police teamed up with them, so they took part in the illegal listening to Alexander Vukic, members of his family. So these renegade parts of the police co-operated with what they call media, which have no other purpose in their lives, until in an attempt to lead a hickey, of course, a hickey of lies and the most common slander against Alexander Vukic, members of his family and all the tentacles, are all components of that same octopus. And you were involved in the physical persecution of members of the Vukic family. They sent photos to each other, they sold lies as information, they represented the most valuable and most important so-called sources of information, and they cooperated with people who found sniper rifles, sniper rifles intended for Alexander Vukic, the man who had personally declared war on the mafia. There is a clear relationship between the state and Alexander Vukic, who is headed by the state, seen. So to everyone exactly as he deserved according to the letter of the law. And every day you see new evidence of this kind of collaboration, that kind of partner relationship between the different tentacles of the octopus. We also mentioned these various media outlets today. A lot of things people said today. What's interesting is that the media didn't accuse you, although they would certainly like to portray it as if it were, they were not accused by Alexander Vukic, he didn't even mention them in one single word. Of course, you made your headlines there accusing him of some alleged persecution, but he didn't bring you into contact with the arrested mobsters, Alexander Vukic. It was the father of one of the victims of that criminal clan, one parent. It's interesting, in addition to being recognized in the words – the tycoon media leading a senseless hickey against a family based on pure lies and attempts to criminalize honest people, it's interesting that you recognize yourself, so you know who they are, knowingly yourself, you felt that it was just about you. How is it that on February 28th, you were reportedly on the side of the parents of the victims of that clan? And then you published titles such as – do not accidentally show any evidence of the misdeeds of the arrested group Belivuk – Miljkovic. Why? Because you're supposed to be worried about the parents of the victims. And today, when the parent of one of the victims says – Belivuk himself referred us to Creek and in response to the question of journalists – does that mean that he had trust in them, this parent responds – yes, he trusted them, how are you no longer on the side of parents? How can you not say - to protect this man, to question his allegations? No, you're obviously on the side of those you'd most like to convince us that nothing is to blame. There's this strong need, it's right here today, and it's explained, that all of this is relativizing. You see, the same ones who claimed there will be no fight against organised crime, so reality has denied them, and they claim to be the same – those people who have been arrested are nothing virtually special or guilty. And it's not true, it's exaggerated when they say they've prepared a sniper rifle for Alexander Wolf. And they're actually there before some fans, some guys who might be a little awkward, but they're not supposed to be putting on their burden. But just don't show that people saw that they were able to brutally kill other people, kill them in a way that was so beastly that people couldn't imagine, that they couldn't believe with their own eyes when it came to television. You didn't want us to show it to people because it's ruining your relativization and they're saying it's nothing special. The same ones who try to relativize it that way, relativize everything else, but it's nice to show by their actions every day who they protect, what they protect. Among them today is Marinika Tepic, whether in a more direct, clearer way, she can show who she is protecting and whose side she is on the whole story. Not only did it not occur to her, nor did her boss Gilas, nor did the others think to say – any honor to the state that cold-blooded murderers, the beast that usually takes them off the streets, sends them behind bars, no, now you're going with the story – it's all made up, it's all farce and nothing is real. They say and convince us that there was no illegal listening to the president of the Republic, members of his closest family that was documented, proven and handed over to the prosecution. That I guess the ones who took part in it were right, so everyone on the polygraph fell. You couldn't have told us better that you were defending these people, you couldn't have made it more clear to us that they were your allies all along. It's not that we didn't know, but to come out of your mouth is good and useful, because that's how people will understand things better and it'll be much clearer. And those who are “screams, ” whatever their name is, who recognize themselves, know best why and in what, should not be helped in any way. They participated in a campaign of attempts to satanicize the family of Alexander Vukic, they no one else. Is that what happened all the time? Now, you see, today we're getting first-hand information, and that's what the recent lawyer of one of the leaders of the arrested clan, Darka Eles, is saying, that this man in front of him and the police in the middle of a police facility where he was threatening Alexander Vukic and Vukic's children. You see how every day you further confirm who shares the same so-called. values, but also the same methods, have the same goals and, as you can see, who to whom and how they belong. What's all this supposed to do? To satisfy your need to ignore reality, but you are also well aware. And the thing that hurts you the most about this reality -- that Alexander Vukic has a clear, unequivocal support for the most convincing majority of people in this country, because as much as you hope to be different in this country, they make the most of it good and honest, wise people you can't fool, that you can't make them forget who you are and what you were and what you did to that people and what you did to this poor country when you asked yourself, that you can't make them support you like that and want to do to them again what you did to them at the time, but this time worse, and that everything we've done to them, that we've provided for you, that you destroy them, destroy their children again, that you suck up their children, and you don't suffer in your pockets forever. You can't fool people that way, just because they're much smarter than you think they are, which they remember much better and they understand much better and that this fundamental difference between Serbia today and what it used to be clearly seen. Just because they strongly support Alexander Vukic, his policy knows how valuable and what she has provided us, they know how valuable she is and what else she will provide us with in the future. You know, then, that's the reality and because of this reality you're going to beat him, Alexander Vukic to defeat politically you can't possibly. Is that why you think you have the right to try another way by physically removing it, by trying to regain the power of violence again, by seizing the power to get more money? We're back to square one. That power and that money seem to be the only thing that drives you. That's where you made a big mistake. The convincing majority of people in this country that allow simply won't. And the least important are these so-called. open parliaments that have their own need are likely to get their place in television and talk about them. These other NGOs that stood shoulder to shoulder and with Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, fascist Obradovic and others stood in front of the presidency building when they broke the fence together and tried to break into that building and get hold of Alexander Vukic, are clear to everyone, there is nothing new about us, nothing we didn't know. And they have long been defined, they are no parliamentary service at all, they are the most ordinary political platform of these tycoons that have been helplessly defending all along. The reality is understood by them, too. Among their immature, unrealistic and inhuman ambitions and what he managed to provide this country, Alexander Vukic, is a complete nation in this country. These people won't let what we've done well destroy you. Standing among these people is a great privilege and privilege today. Being in a parliamentary group bearing the name of Alexander Vukic, that means being among the first in those ranks. Since we're done talking about what anyone thinks about us and that they can freely sign us all together. Being in the parliamentary group, you know, it's a great honor, it's a great privilege and it's a great responsibility, because it means not only to represent the best policy, the policy that has provided that today's future for children in this country exists and has given itself the task of building this future on. It means defending everything Alexander Vukic has done and what that policy has established today. It means, ladies and gentlemen, to truly love the state, to work for it, and that is why we have addressed those people who will be called upon after the vote to take care of the same state. You gentlemen will need a lot of wisdom, a lot of knowledge, a lot of patience, based on everything that's going on, what you hear, and you see, it's clear to you a lot of courage. If you knew, if those courage were missing in the first place by Alexander Vukic, and then everyone who stood by him proudly, there would be nothing from Serbia. Is there a dilemma or is it not a dilemma? Are we ready to show that courage tomorrow? For us on this side, be absolutely confident, there is no dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3874	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to point to another dimension of this attempt to carry out a coup in Serbia and kill the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. My colleagues who spoke today, not just today, I think they have managed to convince the vast majority of Serbian citizens that Alexander Vukic is being threatened by those who think of himself as so-called. Pro-European and pro-democracy opposition. There are certain NGOs, such as the CRTA and the Open Parliament and a whole series of others. There's a part of the university professors who are silent today about the fact that one of the Belgrade Law School professors had a direct relationship with Veljko Belivuk, and they were very agile, if you remember, those same professors, some of them, indicate that Sinisha Mali allegedly plagiarized his doctorate, and today you're silent about a university professor telling people who cut off their heads -- my brother and I'm coming back from Zlatibor, so bring me what you were supposed to bring me three or four days earlier. So, it's all completely naked and I don't think there's any citizen of Serbia who doesn't understand it. I'd like to point to another dimension of this problem in this short time, and that's the foreign policy dimension. Look, in a few days, no lady can convince that it's a coincidence, you have attacks on Alexander Vukic, who come from Croatia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Today, a Montenegrin portal announces the news that Aleksandar Vukic organized auto-lithiums in Montenegro, or rather in Niksic, that on these auto-lithiums they wore black Chetnik flags with skulls and cross-bones on which it was written - with faith in God for king and country. Today, Daka Davidovic, ahead of the elections in Niksic, accuses Aleksandr Vukic of preparing an assassination on him and on Mitrovica Joaniki. A few days ago, when he brought vaccines to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to Republika Srpska, but to the Federation, or to the Muslim-Croatian Federation, a journalist, actually spokeswoman for one policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who would like to abolish Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to create a unitary and centralised Bosnia and Herzegovina, he asks Alexander Vukic, do you think it's a coincidence: "Did you shoot Alexander Vukiu on Sarajevo? “ The most disgusting attacks on the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, are coming from Croatia, where Alexander Vukic is attacked on one side, the movie is being ridiculed, the movie "Dar from Jasenovac" is being mocked, while Ustasha criminals are being praised and events that occurred during World War II on NDH territory are being compared. I would also like to point out to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic is today in the same situation as King Aleksandar Karadjevic, has opponents in the country and has opponents abroad. We have clearly defined who are opponents in the country, who are opposers abroad, the same ones who were opponents of King Alexander, the same ones who were opponents of the strong Yugoslavia, are today also opponents of strong Serbia. King Alexander was intruding because he was definitely regional leader in this part of the Balkans and Southeast Europe. For the same reason today, it bothers many centres of power outside Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic is today no doubt not only the leader of Serbia, not only the leader of the entire Serbian people, but the leader of the Balkans. Today, Serbia, although not an EU member, is able to give vaccines to both Northern Macedonia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska-Montenegro and everyone who needs them. Today, while President Aleksandar Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is undoubtedly maintained by a political, economic, financial, cultural, military factor in this part of Europe. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that in the same bag against Aleksandar Vukic, both Dragan Đilas and Marinika Tepic and individual so-called. "intellectuals" from Belgrade University and so-called "intellectuals" "free and independent journalists" and how it depends on individual foreign embassies and individual tycoons and that those working abroad against Alexander Vukic and working against the Republic of Serbia have placed themselves in the same bag. What I want to say as president of the parliamentary group, as a colleague of all these people who are both today and yesterday and all these days, are talking about what is threatening Alexander Vukic, I want to tell them that I am speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group, and let the members of the government ask themselves, I have the right to say to those whom, therefore, in a situation where Alexander Vukic is directly threatened with the murder of the country, from abroad, one minister is talking about how, at the time when he was sick of the crown, he ate bacon and sour cabbage, this other minister is talking about how the most important topic in Serbia is the same-sex community, and we as the MP, Alexander Vucicicic, for our children, we send a clear message to the local and foreign public that we will all those who put ourselves in that bag to hit this bag most strongly until we tear it out. We will not allow anyone to endanger the security of neither the Republic of Serbia nor any of its citizens, especially Alexander Vukic. Let not those who think that what they did in 1934, when they killed King Alexander, in fact, Yugoslavia, that they will try, or that they will succeed in 2021, that by killing Alexander Vukic, they will kill Serbia. He will not kill Vukic, nor will he kill Serbia. Long live Alexander Vukic and lived the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3876	Thank you. Does anyone else report from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3877	I want to thank you for today's inspiring discussion, but I want to promise you on behalf of the Serbian government in this fight against crime and corruption, there will be no protection. As you can see, all the authorities in this country are doing their job and doing their best, starting with security services that know very well what the negative influence of the foreign factor means, through the prosecution to the courts. We will not allow criminals and criminogenic structures stimulated by a foreign factor and their helpers from the environment to tear down the state, kill the president, make sure the state wins this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-10-0.u3878	Thank you. Let me just agree with what Mr. Martinovic said and I think it's clear, and that's what we said yesterday and last night when I concluded this session, which is that we are witnesses from one side of the relativization of all these crimes and crime and the mafia, as well as organized groups that destroyed the constitutional order of the country, listening to the president of Serbia and his family. So that's why we witnessed today exactly that, the relativization that there was no listening but that practically all 1700 or 1500 conversations were actually hacked into so-called. taping some of the security suspects. Minister Vulin made that clear yesterday, the police were documenting it all and it was a serious crime. Such relativisation actually means supporting that there is an authority that can allow itself to be above the highest state bodies in Serbia. It is not called anything other than the collapse of the constitutional order and it must not be and should not be any triage whether someone will answer or not. I absolutely agree with what Mr. Martinovic said and when it comes to the region. Mr. Davidovic said -- he did not tell Mr. Martinovic that he would prepare himself, but accused President Vukic of being the taskmaster of an assassination attempt here in Belgrade, when he was shot at him and the bishop of Joaniki. It's a shameless statement that goes completely in favour of everything you've said, which is that it doesn't suit anyone clearly strong and stable Serbia. In the end, let me just say Minister Popovic, who is not at all the kind of sentence we can say on the subject, but you said in the end that the state would not allow it. I am absolutely in agreement, but the problem is that part of that country was working against President Vukic, listening and helping those who conspired against him. I think that is exactly what Mr Martinovic said, I must join him, not only what he said on behalf of the parliamentary group, but I can say and hope that you share this opinion, on behalf of the entire National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we are giving absolute support and we are firmly behind the uncompromising fight against crime, the protection of constitutional order and the integrity and personality of President Vukic and his family and all legitimately elected state bodies of Serbia, and we ask the Government to do everything to respect the laws and protect the security of President Vukic. I apologize once again for having to say this in the end, but I think it is, as did Mr. Martinovic's need. I think it's very important that the National Assembly is doing a very important job in this country, that that's exactly what we all have in mind. I would ask Minister Popovic, just like Minister Matic, who is not here now, has nothing to do with this subject, but to be practical. Since you know, Minister, we are now in the work of the National Assembly all that has arrived so far on the agenda. However, there are several draft laws proposed by MPs, and I would ask you to consider these bill proposals so that we do not have to vote at each session and remove them from the agenda, to see if any of these are acceptable or not. I think, when it comes to your area, it means amending the Law on Judges, it is about judges for violations, proposed by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, and also by amending the Law on Implementation and Security, the same MPs. I assume that's part of your portfolio, execution and security. Also, I thought I would ask Minister Matic, but she is not there, since MP Marijan Risticevic has proposed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media to also consider these proposals and to see, to find an appropriate solution, and not to give me the part here now, and the legislative initiatives that every MP has now do not leave just an empty letter on paper. I thank everyone one more time. According to Article 98(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. We'll be back tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, Halls are found to be present at this point in 152 MPs, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
