ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 16th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I call upon you to pay our respects to the late Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, Branko Marinkovic. Let him have his glory. Based on the official records of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes and setting up the agenda if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11835	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would, first of all, express my condolences to the family of our Branko, who has been here with us and who has been here with me since 2014, since I was an MP, to the man who has been with us all and was with us when it was necessary to have any information, to be told. A person like Branko was really a man we all loved. A great tragedy for all of us here in the Assembly, a great loss for all of us both here in the Assembly and in parliament normally, and all of Serbia has lost one good man, a great lawyer, a great expert. The biggest tragedy is for his family, for all people. He is especially us who come from the south of Serbia respected and appreciated it because he saw it through us and him. Once again, he'll sympathise with his family and a great loss for all of us. I would now ask the Ministry of Education as a first question, and it concerns specifically this time, when the pandemic of the Crown 2020-2021 began. the year, i.e. by the end of 2021, where, within the framework of the plans and programmes of the basic system of education, children by the fourth grade had a so-called recreational course, a course that was in nature, in certain places, where children, together with their teachers, had also carried out their work duties. Otherwise, all these recreational classes were paid by parents, where those children were spent a few days, seven, eight days on these recreational classes. The problem that arises is, this is a situation, specifically 2019/20 generations, children who entered the fourth grade in 2019, they paid for recreational teaching. That depends on where it goes, 25, 30, 40, so maybe 50 thousand dinars, that's what parents paid for. Meanwhile, a corona, a pandemic of covids, where these children were unable to do that teaching, and the school as a business carrier did all these necessary procurements, where performers were obtained, or those who worked those programs by the agencies. They were paid the funds, in 2020 because of the crown, they didn't go to do that recreational teaching, the money was delivered, given to those agencies. It was waiting for 2021 to end and in 2021 it was not finished, it was not done these recreational classes in nature. These kids are now fifth or sixth grade, and they can't do it anymore, they can't use those funds, but the big problem is that this agency or those agencies that got that job, they get that money to those parents, they're not going to get it back, because it's now extended in 2022, by a regulation that it can be extended, that that part of the job is done. My question is – is there a possibility and obligation for the agencies to pay you back to their parents? Every dinar to these parents is important, because such a situation, a very difficult financial situation, 25, 30,000 dinars, someone gave it to 2019, 2020, by the day of today that money is not returned to parents, and children cannot get another place and can't do it because they have moved to a higher class or fifth or sixth. It's a question to the competent ministry and to solve the problems of these parents, to get that money back to them, so that they can use it for the purposes of schooling their children or to pay for the debts that have arisen, whether it's electricity, water, taxes or anything. I expect it will be settled for the benefit of every student. And the biggest problem is in our small environments, where it's a difficult financial situation. The second question is about our insurance company, our military insurance company. In particular, my question is to RFZO – when will a contract be signed with military hospitals in Nis? I am particularly interested in Nis, because a large number of our citizens have confidence in military doctors. They had completed early examinations there, and a military hospital in Nis, and there was no contract signed in Novi Sad, because of some rule that was not in line, and it had to be agreed. It's the final rule within which the RFO works. It is necessary that this rule be changed, so that military hospitals in Nis may be hired, their doctors, that our citizens may in this difficult situation be covids, that they can be treated, that they end their treatment, because once again I say, our people have great confidence in military health, in military doctors. That's why it's my question. Thanks again. I expect it'll be settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11836	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11837	Thank you. I ask my question to the Department of Construction, Traffic, Infrastructure, and car parking. Finding a free parking spot is a problem not only in Belgrade, but also in smaller towns in Serbia. However, the biggest problem of parking is in the capital, as there are currently around 700,000 registered vehicles in Belgrade, a record number in the history of this city, and also a huge number of vehicles from all over Serbia are moving daily in Belgrade. According to official data, every facility in downtown Belgrade lacks 25 parking spaces, but parking is no longer a nightmare just for a narrow city centre. Let's say, in New Belgrade, you were somehow able to find a parking space when you came home from work just a few years ago. Today, however, it is an impossible mission, both in New Belgrade and in Karaburma, Vozdovac, Chukarica, throughout Belgrade. The lack of parking space is not only caused by drivers seeking parking, but also by pedestrians who cannot normally move on sidewalks that are often occupied by cars, mothers with wheelchairs, disabled ones, and driving vehicles are difficult because of cars parked on both sides of the street. We had a case in one city in Serbia the other night that about 20 cars parked in a vehicle's moving area were damaged in one street, probably because they blocked the passageway for a bigger vehicle, not to mention when, for example, vehicles "emergency assistance", firemen, urban cleanliness, snow-cleaning vehicles simply can't approach a specific location because of parked vehicles in places designed to pass priority services. And here's the damage multiple. Car owners don't have room for parking. If they accidentally park, they harm others, as well as themselves, because they will surely be caught in a misdemeanor and will have to pay the fine, and sometimes from 10 to 15 minutes in search of a free place affects environmental pollution. My question – is there a plan or strategy for how to get to a larger number of places where citizens will be able to park, or how to reduce the number of improperly parked vehicles, and that these are not just penalties? We are witnessing the growing construction of living space and according to the Law on Planning and Construction, the investor is obliged to provide as many parking spaces as there are housing units. The problem is that most people who buy an apartment are not able to buy a parking space and they are forced to park outside and thus overbooked streets get new parking users anyway. We're aware this isn't easy to solve, but there's got to be a way. And my question -- are these public garages that would remove cars from the streets, is their construction planned, in which parts of the city and what dynamics, and are there any other solutions that are on the pier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11838	Thank you. The word is Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11839	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, in front of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to address the issue and present a problem to the Ministry of Finance. Given the country's positive macroeconomic developments, at the time when we meet the 2022 budget, we go with good expectations, when the capital investment budget at the state level is projected to be 486 billion dinars, while in Vojvodina the expenditures of budget users who have a capital character planned in the amount of 23.6 billion dinars and have a share of nearly 27% in the total budget, a prerequisite for long-term economic and social development has been provided, focusing capital investment. The problem I want to draw attention to concerns the matter governed by the Budgetary System Act, which is related to the planning of capital investments in cases where funds for capital investments are transferred from the Republic or the provincial budget to investment holders, mainly local self-government units. Although capital investments are transferred as class 4 expenditure, in terms of economic classification, it is not possible to show in the three-year budget. In this context, the idea of supporting the investment of local self-government through transfers must be planned either in whole for years of need by means of an annual budget, which is to capture funds which are certain not to be spent in that year, or must be planned in the annual amount of co-financing, which, if relied on by local self-government, comes into uncertainty in terms of further providing the source of funding. In view of all the above, I ask the Ministry of Finance – do you think that the possibility of resolving the problem in amending the Law on the Budgetary System and the provisions of Article 54 on the taking over of commitments in terms of defining the three-year statement in the capital part of the budget, other than the capital expenditure of class five and the expenditure of capital character class four, which are intended for investment investments? On the one hand, the result of this standardisation would be more predictable budget planning, and on the other hand, the burden of the entire investment would be distributed to several budget cycles. I believe that this amendment to the law would also devise non-principle attacks on public administration due to a low level of budget implementation in the part of the expenditure on capital investment and the transfer of significant neutral assets over the next financial year. I would once again underline the fact that for financially significant projects that have been implemented over several years, which are planned and expressed as expenditures of capital character, funds must be provided in the current year in the total investment value, because the Budgetary System Act does not allow expenditures of capital character to be budgeted for several years already only expenditure. As long as such a legal solution is in place, financially significant capital character projects, which are planned as expenditures, will have to burden the budget year in which such a project is planned. I ask the competent ministry – is it planned to formulate a solution to this problem that will allow the expenditures of capital character to be planned for several years, i.e. in comparison with the real time needed to realise projects that cross the borders of one year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11840	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11841	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to extend my condolences to the Marinkovic family on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. With the sudden departure of Marinkovic, in fact our Branko, the most lost his family, but I am convinced that you will agree with me that he has lost each and every one of us individually, not just an associate and a deputy secretary, but a man who has looked at a friend in all of us and has always been willing to help logistically or in any other sense. I first met Branka when I was sitting with Srdjan at this chair table, when this assembly was quite the scene of the opposition dialogue and positions and the first to give me selfless support were the late Branko and Srdjan. That's when I said and now I'm going to say, I'm actually going to repeat what I told Mr. Odalovic at the beginning of this term, which is that it's about a man who was responsible, serious and dedicated to doing his job. May he rest in peace and thank him for everything he's done for us. My question today concerns something that is not popular to speak of probably, or I am sure, both the President of the State and the Ministers, but that is why we MPs can speak the same way as representatives of other countries, neighbouring countries speak in the European Parliament, because we are representatives of citizens and we convey only the attitude and opinion of citizens. Many times so far, we have pointed out that Serbia faces great temptations and great calls and that we have one designed pressure strategy on Serbia. First of all, pressure on five countries that have not accepted the simply declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Another pressure through attempted criminalisation, both the president and the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia. The third pressure across neighbouring countries that were first racing to adopt the resolution that Serbia is a genocide state and that Serbs are a genocide people. The fourth type of pressure inside, because you will always find the interior on the internal political scene of a marine or some Gilas, who will always be ready or some carbonic who will always be ready to launch that initiative and resolution, as a motion for a resolution, that Serbia is a genocide state, and Serbia is a genocide people here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and who will always try to send that worst picture of Serbia. But what we are particularly concerned about, and what has happened in recent days, is the political behaviour of some neighbouring countries, before all the Republic of Croatia, which has since the time of recognition of Kosovo's secession openly supported all activities of Pristina and Albanian separatists to be fully internationally recognised in Europe. And not only is political support involved, Croatia has gone a step further. In previous days, she sent military experts and officers to train Albanian soldiers to create their own army. What do the Albanians need an army for? Clearly, that's what they showed us in the 1990s. What really concerns is last week's visit to Croatia, Milanovic, Pristina, which said on that occasion, I quote: "It is coming to a friendly state". In addition, the president of Croatia warned Albanians, telling them, I quote: "That in northern Kosovo you must be resilient, because if it is neglected, you will never solve it." Aren't these words of the Croatian President a direct call for attacks in northern Kosovo and Metohija? Milanovic then promised Pristina Albanians that he would work to recognise Kosovo by EU members who did not. Not all of this, on behalf of his government, the defence minister of Croatia signed an interstate military co-operation treaty with Pristina, which clearly speaks of open military co-operation between an EU member and an unrecognized self-proclaimed state. I remind you, the EU has not accepted and has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Shorty, my question is whether the government and the MUP, are planning certain diplomatic activities that would point to this diplomatic precedent that Croatia has made, publicly supporting Kosovo's secession? This issue should also be asked to the international community, which, instead of encouraging dialogue, remains without the kind of behaviour of an EU member, which is particularly worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11842	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11843	Thank you, Chairman. Here, kind of the end of the year, the holiday atmosphere, however, when it comes to this respected home, this atmosphere has been significantly changed and significantly disturbed by the loss that happened to this Assembly, but I am also sure of this country in the past days when our friend and associate, Branko, passed away. But, among other things, even because of the late Brank, we have to keep working, to push this country a little further every day and ask ourselves what it is that we did and what it's good that we can do every day for this country, just like our friend did. We have to ask questions, we measure ourselves, but we have to ask and watch others work, so we have some kind of standard. Once hosts in Serbia measured and assessed what they did in the previous year, they gave somehow on Christmas. They usually saw what they had done in the previous year and made plans for what they would do next year and how they would wait for the next Christmas. That time hasn't changed much until today. Here, somehow, in these days at the end of the year again people see these things either around New Year's or around Christmas. Here's a chance, dear colleagues, for us all as bearers and representatives of the government to look at what we did in the previous year and what our plans for the future are. If we turn behind us, we'll see, we could've done a lot better, but a lot of good things we did. Here we are at 6.7% of GDP growth. Here we are at 3.4 billion foreign direct investment, more than in all other countries in the region. Here we are at the inflation rate from the time before the pandemic, which will say that this severe pandemic time did not cause much damage to Serbia. Here we are on new miles of highways. Here we are with the mallet in hand in the nest of hornets of crime like never before. Here we are with investments in the region and with never more help from our people in the region. There's little time today if in these few minutes I'd like to list what we've done in this year, but we have to measure ourselves and what someone else has done, because it's the only way we can give a proper assessment of what we've done ourselves. Where are and what have those who think the opposite today and do the opposite in this country? They were working. They did everything in their power against Serbia and against the people. They didn't miss that kind of work. They did everything they could to set this country on fire. They've been working on insults, threats. They worked on blockades, arson, and in plans for next year, the plan is, if at all possible, to take the life of the president of the state, possibly to one of his family members and to force the government in Serbia, that's the plan. Here, somehow at the end of the year, we're used to, since this is somewhere, I think the last question for this year, we usually ask it to institutions or some authorities, that's fine. However, my question at the end of this year as the last parliamentary issue goes to whoever is most important in this country - the people. People and Serbia, do you see what they've been doing and what we've been doing? Guys, what do you think of them and what New Year's next and what kind of Christmas do you think you're waiting with and who do you think you're meeting him with? I ask Serbia today, and I ask the people, what plans do we have, and what plans, people, have they others? I'll wait for the answer. I expect him in early April. I'm almost sure of it, but I'll wait for the people's answer. Whatever the answer is, we will be pleased with it, for in the end, the people are the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11844	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. You were delivered the records of the 11th, 12th and 13th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the 11th session of the Second Regular Session. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 160, did not vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 11th session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. I conclude the vote: total – 170, for – 164, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the 12th session of the Second Regular Session. I am voting on the list of the 13th session of the Second Regular Session in 2021. I conclude the vote: total – 171, for – 163, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the list of the 13th session of the Second Regular Session. You have also been presented with a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Articles 92 and 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for dealing with emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 172 for – 166, not votes – six. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Food Safety in the Western Balkans is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 172 for – 166, not votes – six. I also find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on confirming the conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 172 for – 166, not votes – six. I also find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security (AEOS). I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: total – 172 for – 165, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of an Agreement on the integration of electronic identification schemes of citizens of the Western Balkans is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 172 for – 165, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Smilja Tishma suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in NDH from 1941 to 1945. Does Smilja Tishma want a word? You want a word? Three minutes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11845	I am Smilja Tishma, a surviving child, a camper of Jasenovac and other camps in NDH from 1941 to 1945, the oldest member of this assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am asking the chairman to supplement the agenda to the point we have been waiting for 80 years, which is the motion for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide carried out against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II from 1941 to 1945. The mission, before I go, cease to be a member of this home, and for years we have insisted on it as surviving prisoners of Ustasha camps in World War II, that the issue of genocide committed against the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people in a certain official manner has not been displayed so far. Allow me to be a lawyer of 74 thousand children over whom a brutal genocide was committed in NDH, 20 thousand children in Jasenovac, the most fearsome polygon for genocide, and then in Croatia the state became in the territory of Yugoslavia. We need to know and remember that Jasenovac occupied a vast area of 240 square kilometers, about 150 football courts and was six times larger than Auschwitz, where millions and a half of people were killed, and the state policy of NDH, namely today's Republic of Croatia, allows that no more than 80 to 100 thousand were killed. Statistics speak of a much larger number, but that is likely to be decided by the competent authorities. The last 100 campers went into the suicide final breakthrough with the goal of surviving, only one to tell of 57 methods of killing and 700,000 brutally murdered people, women and children. The numbers are completely different. We've been having serious conversations and controversy over the past few months. We'll see what the talks give you. The suicide breakthrough survived, which I spoke of only about 80 of them. From Jasenovac Sava, corpses floated, and at Brank's bridge, 10,000 corpses made a spot in the voyage to be blown up by the Nazis with dynamite to allow them to sail, and corpses continued their way to the Black Sea, and Belgrade spread a strangely difficult breath of death. Is that genocide? It is denied that genocide has not been carried out. There's a lot of examples. I'll just list some. Today is the final attempt to put the resolution on the agenda, the last time I take a word on this issue. On behalf of brutally murdered, massacred victims, people, women and children in genocide over genocide in the 20th century, on behalf of the Jasenovese martyrs, it is our duty to bring a resolution on the Ustasha crime committed during World War II. At least on this eighty-year-old to say whether or not that genocide is known to have been done and done in Jasenovac. For this connotation that has an absolute majority and an historic role... A major historical responsibility and no excuse to miss this historic chance, especially now that many point to Serbia and accuse Serbia of being a genocide state. Who today does not vote for the condemnation of genocide may be considered to approve the genocide over their own people. Says the People's proverb, the heroes are known in torment, and the heroes of their people. This resolution should be ghastly before the revision of the history of the NDH genocide revolution. It is not against the Croatian people, but against all who have committed genocide against these people, so how do Croats recognise it and block its adoption by threatening to block Serbia and some clusters if the resolution is adopted? Our patriarch Porphyrius said that they were not Croats, for they were drawn from the tribe of men as inhumans. But what are the names of those Croats who expelled 250,000 Serbs from the Croatian state over the past years, and what are they called today that made the military agreement between Zagreb and Pristina on 17 December 2021? The message is – prepare Serbs for the new Storm and genocide. If Willy Brant kneeled in the Warsaw ghetto for the Holocaust, Merkel and McCron apologized for the genocide of Namibia and Rwanda. Therefore, Croatia has no moral right to hide behind Europe, as it hides behind Yugoslavia and when it has blackmailed Serbia for its brotherhood and unity so as not to touch the wounds and they cannot heal until the genocide is condemned. On behalf of the good neighbourly and co-existence in the Balkans, I invite you today as MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia together to break through the silence of the eighty-year-old patient genocide. Vote without fear, without fear, without twisting, without calculations, without party pragmatism. Please stop the silence. We tried to bring resolution 2016, then 2021, and it's always said – it's not time, not then, not now. Well, when? Serbia can't wait anymore, and it shouldn't wait. Allow me for the last time to ask you to vote on your conscience and, on that behalf, allow the chairman to stand up and hand him my personal copy of the resolution. This act is the last breakthrough of the camper Jasenovac and never forget the genocide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11846	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 168, for – 44, abstention – one, did not vote – 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Linta proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 16, for – six, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. National MP Miodrag Linta proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of – 168, for – nine, did not vote – 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that it be carried out: 1. – joint general and uniform search on points 1 and 4 to 13; 2. – joint single search by item 2 and 3 of the agenda. Does the promoter want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: a total of 168, for – 157, did not vote – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for the review of acts under emergency procedure, for the addition of the proposed agenda and for the proposal to merge the debate, I am putting the draft agenda in general on the basis of Article 93. I conclude the vote: a total of 168, for – 161, did not vote seven. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 16th session of the Second Regular Session in 2021, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, which the Government has submitted; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 3. List of candidates for the Competition Protection Council submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy; 4. Report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2020, which was submitted by the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of 25 November 2021; 5. Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the amendments and additions to the Commission’s 2021 Commission’s Finance Plan, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; 6. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commission's 2022 Commission's budget and to control the spending of public funds; 7. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2022 financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; 8. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Food Safety in the Western Balkans; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security (AEOS); 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the integration of electronic identification schemes for citizens of the Western Balkans. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I would like to inform you that the members of the 90th and 239th members are invited to attend the meetings of Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Radomir Ratko Dmitrović, Minister of Family and Demography, Prof. Dr. Darija Kisić Tepavčević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borarska and Social Affairs, Dragan Kovacevic, President of the UO Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, Prof. Dr. Dr. Darija Kisić Tepavčević, Minister of Labour, State Secretary, State Secretary, Dragan Pejović, Director of the Minister of Electronic Communications, Snežana Karanović, Assistant Minister of the Minister, Mirjana Radanović and Daniel Vazorjević, Minister of the Minister of Staff, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Security of Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 157 and 170, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on points 1 and 13 of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor, the representatives of the government, want a word at the very beginning of the session? The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11847	Respect, Mr. Chairman, respect for fellow MPs. I would like to brief you on a part of the story called "Open Balkans" and which represents a serious development opportunity for Serbia, in a few segments, which we will try in the next few minutes, my colleagues and I to present to you what has been happening in the last two months, essentially, and realistically in the last year, as much as on the basis of President Vukic's joint initiative, the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, Zajev, Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, Mr Rama. The idea of the whole story about "Open Balkans" is to break down barriers, bring down all of those in several segments that concern both trade, food trafficking, exchange of people in terms of labour, recognition of accreditation by competent bodies and all that can serve faster movement of people, goods, capital, which is the basic meaning and the greatest advantage that can bring time ahead. In the 1990s, there were borders, there were interruptions, most often in communications, and especially in terms of co-operation of institutions. For Serbia, it is as important as a country that is economically strengthening, which GDP growth in 2020 is over 7%. Only Ireland from all over Europe can compete with us. It is very important for us that the whole bar-free market story, which is "Open Balkans", is that the market, together with Northern Macedonia and Albania, works. There's been a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of work done in the time behind us. I can freely say that in the food sector, from the moment these proposals of ratification, I hope they come across your approval, the National Assembly is the most important body that can decide on all this, it is our job to prepare the whole work for the MPs. I hope that in the voting day there will be ratification of all these agreements. I will make sure in the next few minutes that the part relating to the Agreement on Co-operation and Veterinary-phytosanitary Protection in the area of food and feed safety, signed in Tirana on 21 December 2021, is presented to you. What's the point? So far, no laboratory analysis of food has been recognised, regardless of whether it is of plant, animal origin, in the trade between these three countries. Absolutely, whenever someone wants to send food from Elbasa to Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotics, anywhere, or from Nis to Kumanovo, every time, no matter what you had a certificate, that you had proof of the laboratory regularity of that food, your goods had to be at the Tabanovci crossing or at some other crossing in the Republic of Albania to be re-supplyed, that you were standing there, to get laboratory analysis, whether it was all that and only then to find it in the food market. With this agreement, we're absolutely breaking that barrier. Labs complete for these three countries and everything issued in Tirana is valid in Zrenjanin, everything issued in Novi Sad, is valid in Tetovo and so on. The point is, more at the border crossing which is more frequent Presevo-Tabanovci does not stop the goods of plant and animal origin, while fully respecting the principle of food safety. You remember a bunch of strawberry trucks from our southern neighbours, which were heading towards Serbia, you remember a bunch of our goods, milk or other products, don't forget that our trade with Northern Macedonia is 300m euros, where Serbian exports are 245m euros. I must also refer to the food trade and agricultural products with Albania. I will never forget in 2017 or 2018, I can no longer remember when it was, after 60 years, the first Serbian agriculture minister to be in Albania and at all the meetings of the Albanian minister and Serbian minister of food we had a colleague and I at the time, later he became defence minister. Then we exchanged certificates and then the trade was only ten million euros, general exchanges. It's 90m euros now. Imagine how much trade there will be when these barriers are gone. It is therefore very important that this entire space, these three countries, in the food exchange, which has so far been worth around 450m euros, all countries, anyone, when exchanging food and trading food to grow to a billion euros. It's a space that's just amazing. With this lack of control at the border crossings, this thing will be significantly accelerated. Ever since we managed to build a green corridor, so-called. "Open Balkans" special tape. It's a construction project, it has to be done, it has to be physically built. At this point, it's impossible to let it function that way. Imagine how things will go then. Imagine the privilege of merchants, freighters, businessmen, truck drivers, to fit into a special tape and not have to wait for a six, seven-mile-long column that was often made like that. Because of the citizens of Serbia, because of you fellow MPs I want to say that in practice it will work. I think it's actually the most important thing you'll see through what we've agreed on. For example, the meat truck, the pigmeat from Shida, is on the market for Northern Macedonia or Albania. At the border crossing, he no longer stops to sample food. There's an early announcement of a shipment that this system established. The day before that, the forwarder announces. The next day, at a time interval from 12.00 to 6:00 p.m., a truck will go quiet and these registration marks, in addition to the laboratory analysis, you will find a complete cent that goes by every truck and that truck driver crosses the border, no longer stops to be sampled, but goes to the customs establishment of Northern Macedonia, where all its goods are booked and goes into the trade chain. To take care of the security of food all three of these countries, there's so-called. The monitoring we've agreed with each other. This is the number of shipments to be sampled on the border by a random sample of the cost of the country on whose territory that sampling is carried out, which cannot be more than 5% of the total number of consignments. Why are you doing this? This is done to prevent possible abuses, that at any time we can randomly know what happens to the entire shipping contingent. There's one more thing. We've adopted a common list of the most commercial operators, which have good business practices, which so far have not had in previous analyses, any jumps from that list, these economic operators, absolutely, will not be controlled. There will be more in the monitoring system of those who appear for the first time, entering the system. A few more things were adopted so the whole thing could work. These are the exchange of quarantine lists with status, the establishment of a list of harmful organisms, the exchange of programmes for the investigation of harmful organisms, the establishment of a list of plants and plant products that require certification of phytosanitary inspection. Why is this important? It's important that this entire space. If one plant disease is recognized and controlled in the space of one country, it must be in the space of another country, in the space of a third country, because it's the only way we can bring the whole trade into line. If something has been declared a harmful organism in the Republic of Serbia and is not in the Republic of Albania, we automatically have a problem with trade. And there's no good store until all sides are satisfied. I'll miss those stores where one side takes 99% and the other side 1%. You know how much that can work? One summer and goodbye. It's like in that song-- she sang one summer and bye. This story is a story of history, a story of importing the market. People, we've received 50% more people with this Open Balkans project to consume Serbian food. We've got a space where 50% more of every country's labour force will be free, so they can move without a problem and have no problems in establishing labour status. What is before us, and now to inform you what is agreed yesterday, these are technical matters, as regards the goods of plant origin and all that has to do with the goods of plant origin, in Serbia no longer remains at the border crossing of Presevo, but goes to the customs station of Vranja, there are paper registrations and goes further to its destination. This is about the product of plant origin, we had to protect our space. Vranje is closest to the border, God forbid something unwanted happens, it is near the border, it does not enter deep into the territory of a potentially harmful organism if we accidentally establish it exists and we protect Serbia's space, while at the same time allowing free trade in plant origin goods. As far as the goods of animal origin are concerned, there is an even simpler thing, because it has already been investigated, there are all analyses, there is no problem, there is no way of entering anything that is possibly infected with some disease, and in other territory they defend against the same diseases as we are going to the customs exposition of the final destination where the goods are delivered. For example, if someone ordered goods from Macedonia's Pecabesco, it's meat processing, he ordered in Loznica, the customs station closest to Loznica, is that, now, I don't know the structure of customs whether Sabac or Loznica, there the goods are not coming down, there will be a veterinary inspector, reviewing everything. The point is, there's no keeping at the border, no standing for hours, no more days. Another important thing I have to say is that veterinary inspectors, phytosanitary inspectors at these points work 24/7. The Serbian side has implemented this system before. We had a problem in Northern Macedonia because of technical conditions, there wasn't enough light in the night conditions, because it has to be, I don't even know how much luxury lighting to be able to perform night checks on plant goods and they've now implemented it and with this ratification of this agreement 24/7 is actually the time of operation for all these three countries. I don't think there's gonna be any problem. What I expect in the first days, as well as for every thing that begins, there will be some technical gaps, there will be some problems, but we will remove it in walking and I can now responsibly argue and end it - Serbian veterans and Serbian phytosanitary protection are absolutely ready for this project on Monday, January 3rd, from the moment this agreement, if ratified, comes to legal strength, "Open Balkans" is moving for Serbia, and that is a new story that is in fact the historic agreement of Vucica, Rama and Zaeva, which, I am fully convinced, generations ahead of us are going to tell. I'd like to invite you to support the ratification of this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11848	I thank Mr. Secretary. The next is Ms. Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11849	Dear MPs, as you know, the regional initiative "Open Balkans" was launched by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as an initiative aimed at bringing even greater security, stability and prosperity in the Western Balkans' territory. When it comes to the Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans, it was signed under the Open Balkans initiative in Tirana a few days ago, December 21st. The bill confirms this trilateral agreement signed by the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia. It regulates conditions for free access on the labour market, as well as conditions for the registration of nationals of foreign Contracting Parties. The Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market aims to facilitate the free access to the labour market of these participating countries, i.e. to simplify the entry, movement, stay and work of citizens of the three countries. The agreement defines the basic concepts, and one of the basic terms to be defined by this agreement is the identification number of the "Open Balkans". It is a unique number that each Contracting Party assigns to its citizen for the purpose of using electronic services under the Open Balkans initiative. Under that service, citizens of one of these three countries will have access to electronic services, i.e. free access to the labour market. In order to allow a citizen of one of the parties to register and have free access to the labour market, it is necessary that: he has a valid ID card or an appropriate biometric travel document valid for at least 90 days, that there is no ban on entry and stay on the territory of the other Contracting Party and does not pose a threat to the public order, national security, public health or international relations of the other Contracting Party. Citizens of the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, or the Republic of Serbia, who want to take advantage of these benefits provided by the Open Balkans initiative can register through e-Government services in the framework of a service created for free access to the labour market. If a citizen of a party is registered for access to the labour market and meets the relevant conditions laid down in this Agreement, he shall be granted a period of up to two years, with the possibility of re-registering. The re-registration shall take place in the same manner as under the same conditions as the first registration. When registering itself, the citizens of the parties will register personal and other data of importance for work and stay, such as its contact details, data on the type of personal document, employment data, professional qualifications and other data of interest. Appropriations for free access to the labour market enables the exercise of employment rights without the need to obtain a permit to work in foreign reception, as well as the possibility of access to job vacancies in each of the three sides. Employment also includes respect for domestic legislation of foreign reception, both when entering and when staying and working in the country of employment. Free access to the labour market excludes the possibility for citizens of Albania and Northern Macedonia through this agreement to achieve and rights for some of the state incentives for employment, i.e. incentives from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because these incentives from the budget are primarily intended for the employment of domestic citizens and this is more difficult for the unemployed categories. In order to clarify certain issues relevant to the application of this Agreement, the conclusion of individual protocols, as well as social security agreements, is envisaged, above all, between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania. Since this Agreement is the result of the agreement of the Contracting Parties, it is foreseen that any dispute arising from its interpretation or application shall be settled through negotiations. In this connection, this law also plans to set up a joint commission with the task of better organisation, control and coordination of all activities related to the implementation of this Agreement. The Commission will be composed of at least five representatives of each Contracting Party. Also, this agreement will not affect the rights and obligations of the parties resulting from other concluded international agreements. Free access to the labour market opens borders, makes life easier for citizens and improves living standards. This agreement, as well as other agreements under the Open Balkans initiative, is the basis for a better future, for economic development, for a single market without barriers, which means higher salaries, higher pensions and a better standard of living for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11850	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Radomir Dmitrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11851	Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement and the integration of electronic identification schemes for citizens of the Western Balkans. So we stay in this story. As one of the results of the Open Balkans initiative in Tirana on 21 December 2021, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the governments of the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia signed an agreement connecting the electronic identification scheme of citizens of the Western Balkans. The main purpose of this agreement is to ensure that the three countries have access to their electronic services for citizens of all the countries involved in the initiative, so that the citizens of one country can use the electronic services of another country, i.e. to exercise their rights in another country signatories. The digitisation of public services is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which recognises that new technologies can improve and speed up the business and communication of citizens, businesses and states. The use of modern technologies saves time, costs are much lower, jobs are done more efficiently, and information is much more accessible. By developing an electronic administration, our country wants to enable its citizens to exercise their rights in a faster and more comfortable manner. The use of new technologies has been recognised as one of the mechanisms for the successful implementation of the Open Balkans initiative, and all in order for our citizens to exercise their rights in a reliable and easy way guaranteed "Open Balkans", which is why it is planned for countries to allow their citizens to exercise their rights electronically in another country. Accordingly, the parties have joined the conclusion of an Agreement on the integration of electronic identification schemes for citizens of the Western Balkans that negotiate co-operation in the field of electronic administration. The issue governed by this Agreement is mutual recognition of the registered electronic identification scheme, then the integration of national software solutions, the establishment of the Open Balkans identification number, promoting the use of electronic services that would further confirm, improve and strengthen the objectives of the Cooperation Initiative between Contracting Parties. The agreement provides for each country to use other country's services under the Open Balkans initiative to assign an identification number to its "Open Balkans". The prerequisite for obtaining that number is that the citizen has an electronic identity issued to him by a registered electronic identification scheme in his country. The Open Balkans identification number is an addition to the existing electronic identity of citizens who give him the opportunity to prepare rights under the Open Balkans initiative, in accordance with the appropriate agreements in other documents of the Open Balkans initiative, which are in force between the Contracting Parties, as well as in accordance with the normative acts and practices of each of the Contracting Parties. This number will initially serve to apply to the single labour market in accordance with the Agreement that regulates free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans. Namely, a citizen who wants to apply for free access to the labour market on the "Open Balkans" must sign up electronically and possess an identification number for the "Open Balkans". This number will also be used later to provide other electronic services within the framework of the initiative agreed by the parties. In addition to providing electronic services, the common intention that needs to be achieved in the perspective is that citizens with "Open Balkans" IDs get different discounts on airline tickets, tolls, railway benefites and other benefits. This Agreement shall enter into force on 30 days from the date on which the ratification instruments are laid down by at least two Contracting Parties and shall give the right to facts only between those Contracting Parties. For the Contracting Party which ratifys or approves this Agreement after its entry into force, when at least two countries ratify it, the Agreement shall enter into force 30 days from the date of the laydown of the ratification instrument by the Contracting Party. The date of entry into force of this Agreement will begin the application of the Agreement on free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11852	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11853	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, in order for Serbian citizens to know why the hall is half empty, we simply had to take part as MPs in the memorial for the death of Deputy Secretary General Branko Marinkovic. Maybe the ministers didn't know. It's not a matter of disrespect that we're not here, but we just wanted to offer our family our condolences. In fact, what shows this support, how much we were in fact related to the work of many people, and obviously also to Branko Marinkovic, and as a man and as an official of this Assembly without which the simple work of the Assembly, and of the service, and of us fellow Members of the people, worked much easier while he was alive. Of course, life must go on and we as proposings, my colleague Katarina Rakic and I are here between the small hall and this big one, came here for a session to continue our work on the agenda. Today's agenda within this session are also three financial reports from institutions that are within the competence of the National Assembly of Serbia, which is the Securities Commission, which is REM and that is the Energy Agency. We are each year considering the reports of their financial plans for next year, because they are not within the framework of the work of their plans, within the framework of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in respect of the decisions made by the Ministry of Finance for them, but because of their competences defined in the framework of the work of the National Assembly and of the work defined by the laws that have been established. So we're considering financial reports here at the tide. When we also talk about the Securities Commission, we discussed last week a new Capital Market Act that is practically in line with the 11 EU directives. What we had today, in fact, considered before the law was passed, is to amend and supplement the plan for this year came precisely because of the many costs that followed during the year itself, and the plan based on which it was made for next year was made precisely on the basis of new legal solutions and new competencies that the commission should work. When we talk about changes in the plan, it should be said that only there have been changes in certain items of 659 000 dinars, that is because many PTT services have been more expensive and because they have retired people and because they have increased costs in that part. So the change is 659 000, but the Commission will continue to make a projected profit of millions and 60 thousand dinars this year. When we talk about the 2022 Financial Plan, according to a new law to establish the natural and functioning of the Belgrade Stock Exchange in a completely new way, given that we also have a change of structure in terms of co-operation with both Greece and Cyprus and Northern Macedonia. That very revenue in 2022 will be much higher and will thus focus on working with domestic investors, motivation and stability in the capital market. The expenditure has been increased by almost 1.60, as well as revenues, of course, 1.67%, that's two million dinars. Then, wages are not increased, are not projected for next year, but public procurement is calculated precisely because many technical solutions and technical equipment must go at a much higher percentage, precisely because investments will be made for public registers of 5.2 million dinars, and these investments are just saying that registers according to new legal solutions are yet to be established. They are a register for public companies, then, a register of legal and natural persons who approve the status of qualified investors, then, as you know there are competences of this Commission, when it comes to audit houses, then certain qualified people dealing with the capital market, brokerage houses for the conduct of brokering portfolios of managers, as well as a register for the regulation of investment funds, as well as a part relating to the Act for the acquisition of stock companies. So you can see that a lot when it comes to the stock market itself, we're also talking today about the future for trading tokens as part of the crypto currency in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. Last year we also had the adoption of the Digital Property Act. So, we follow new trends, and the Commission as one of the institutions that actively participated in the drafting of many of these laws, has also received new competences, and is obliged to monitor through its capital market business registers. When we talk about REM, it is most interesting for us that the plan was adopted on 1 November 2021, and that according to the laws passed, the regulatory bodies for electronic media for 2022 have in their register 652 media service providers. Their funding is based on the income compensation they've been paid. What is important is to say that all the excess income that simply does not function as expenditure is paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What we heard on the Committee, which is of great importance, is that the 2012 budget has been paid by this institution 1.4 billion dinars. A plan made for next year based on indicators designed by both the NBS and the government of the Republic of Serbia through the finance ministry. So, for next year, GDP growth is projected to 4.5%. Three percent of the deficits and that part relating to the average inflation value of 3.7%, which the NBS put in. It should be said that the reduced fee for this activity is 25%, that the higher revenues, i.e., expenditures by 7% are planned for next year, and that they amount to a total of 335,834.560,00 dinars. These regulatory costs go 80% from TV fees, then from radio 6% fees and from cable operators 14%. That's what you have in the report on page 14, beautifully shown. What is the number of service providers, when it comes to the users themselves who are paying this fee. The third financial plan for 2022 is the Energy Agency. According to its competences, the revenues it collects are from licences. So, in its jurisdiction, it has regulation of energy prices, then licensing, certification of those who perform this activity, then, supervision of the energy market, then, settlement by complaint, means in the second degree, and the part relating to international co-operation, as active participants in working with the Energy Community. Incomes and expenditures are in the same volume as 235.610.000.00 dinars that go, of course, of regulatory fees 88%, of these revenues, there are licences left, as well as a refund of certain donations they have with international organisations. When we talk about expenditures, the biggest part refers to profits, then, to services related to the lease of business space, which we have otherwise tried to solve as for REM with the Property Directorate, however, there has been no solving of these problems they have, since they have leases from past years and are paying with private companies. The most important thing to say is that expenditure is also consistent with the parameters provided by the NBS, when it comes to inflation, 76% are earnings, and one part relating to the largest part is 8% of the lease, then the part relating to certain services, and the part relating to the financing of IPA projects from 2018, which also needs to ensure the digitisation of the system and the introduction of software for monitoring permits or certificates. It should be said in the end, what is most important, and that citizens know best when it comes to the Agency for Energy, they solve issues in complaints, when it comes to connections and for gas, and for electricity, they cannot give according to their competences certain opinions, but they can solve problems when it comes to user connections, because they have the right to complain as citizens in the second degree, and that second degree is the Agency for Energy, and that is where all citizens know what problems arise, and that is the legal problem, then technical capacity, deadlines and part relating to the silence of the administration. So it is good that there are agencies and institutions that are in the power of work of the Assembly, because this very contact with citizens is very important, as well as we MPs solve many citizens' problems, that there are institutions that have direct contact with citizens, which in certain circumstances really cannot be solved by public enterprises, in a direct way, then there are opportunities and the institution of complaints of citizens in the second degree, which can simply help and ultimately, in a transparent way, indicate that the problems that arise from many users, and that in a certain way we can respond in the future, when the adoption of amendments and addition of laws, or new legal solutions, in order to ultimately make life easier for citizens. Therefore, these three institutions today that have a proposal for financial plans, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should also show next year that Serbia is moving forward, in many areas, such as the capital market, such as media services, as well as energy, and should in a certain way monitor Serbia's growth and development in all segments of society, when it comes to the economy and digitalisation of Serbia, and ultimately move forward with the needs of citizens, precisely because of the future that needs to bring us and overcome many problems and challenges that, you see, every year we have in different areas, but also that we are making progress as a state, regardless of all these challenges. That is why, in the voting day, we feel that we should support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11854	Thank you, colleague Tomic. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11855	I would like first of all to express my deep condolences to the family of Branko Marinkovic, Deputy Secretary-General, but above all, a good man, a great friend and a man who has always served us MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, which was held today, discussed three draft laws and this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Conditions of the Free Market, the Labour Force, as well as a proposal relating to a guarantee scheme, i.e. the integration of the electronic administration of the three countries of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. First of all, I would like to point out that the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction unanimously supported all three proposed draft laws and proposed to the National Assembly that they vote on all three laws in the voting day for the following reasons. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for Family and Children. It is part of the policy that this government is implementing, part of birth policy, part of life policy, part of survival policy for us, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia and part of Serbia's survival as a state. Regardless of all the consequences of the Kovid19 pandemic, which caused the world's biggest economic and health crisis, after World War II, the states recognise the need and recognise the importance of support in terms of increasing the birth rate, in terms of increasing cradles, in terms of increasing new birth, for the future of this country. In this respect, in this Bill of Law, two mechanisms of population policy are important. The first mechanism of population policy refers to each woman who has born her first child since 1 January 2022, a parental supplement will increase three times, from today's 100,000.00 to 300,000.00 dinars. I must also say that, in addition to this financial support given by the state to every mother who gives birth to the first child, almost all local self-governments with their own measures to support population policy, they also foresee within their budgets and in line with their decisions, financial support measures for the birth of children. Also, the second measure in this proposal to amend and supplement the Act to support the family with children, that is that for the first time on the basis of the birth of a child, the mother can exercise the right to build and purchase a residential building or apartment. Never before, based on the birth of a mother who, of course, has no real estate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia could solve a housing issue on that basis. What is important is the increase in birth and the importance of new cradles and new life, this measure of support that has been defined through the law. I must also point out that the government has also delivered a conclusion to the higher education institutions, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia to provide assistance and support to parents who receive children during the course of the study in order to increase their number of exam deadlines and to extend study deadlines to 26 years and 28 years, respectively, for medical students. Also, I would like to point out that for these purposes and additional material resources, but as President Aleksandar Vukic says, Serbia's economy is making good progress, we are making good progress in all areas. It's not a problem with money, it's got enough money, but only to have our children born. Also, the proposed agreements concerning the conditions for free access to the labour market are part of the initiative launched by President Aleksandar Vukic and these agreements were signed in Tirana on 21 December this year. Of course, on the one hand, we have amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which relate to Life Policy, and on the other hand we have agreements on validation, agreements, the Open Balkans initiative that contributes to the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia, the better quality of life for every citizen, higher salaries, higher pensions, free movement of people, goods and capital. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly vote on all three proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11856	Thank you, colleague. The word has Minister Ratko Dmitrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11857	Given the emergency situation that Alexander mentioned and the death case we had, the memorial, we have little changes in the agenda, or changes in places, so I've been waiting to gather us as much as possible. However, let me not wait to present to you the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children. So, something that we have waited really long for, and these are the measures that have been said and we believe can change something positive in the demographic picture and demographic situation in Serbia, which is within our people and citizens of Serbia that is catastrophic. You know, you're familiar with the data. I've said it here, and I won't last a few times, so given the trends in the last two years, I expect 2021 to end up with an even worse result, and we're going to get close to 70,000 compared to the dead. Only two years ago, we were at 37,000. Looks like it's going to be over 70,000. But, okay. It's one challenge we'll try to deal with. What I'm about to introduce to you right now is something that we're deeply convinced everyone we've worked on can change things and bring positive consequences. Thus, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children is based on the right and the duty of parents to raise and raise children, the right of children to living conditions that enable them to develop properly and make it possible for the state to support the welfare of the family of children and future generations. The provisions of this law form part of the overall social care for children and contribute to improving conditions for meeting the basic needs of children, giving special incentives for the birth of children and providing support for materially endangered families, families with children with disabilities and children with disabilities, as well as children without parental ageing. That is why this law itself represents the country's definition of social policy, including demographic needs, at the same time an important instrument of population policy. The law has been applied since 1 June 2002. Amendments and additions to the Law were made in 2005 and 2009. The previous application of the law in practice has shown that it is inevitable to miss out on new amendments and additions that could only be carried out by making a new law because of their abundance. The new law was adopted in December 2017, with effect from 1 July 2018. Following the adoption of the Strategy for Incentives of Birth in March 2018, on the proposal of President Aleksandr Vukic, it joined the amendments and additions to the Law adopted in June 2018, with the application also since the first of July. Let me remind you, when that law came into force, we were at birth rate, at the fertility rate of 1.48.8 and he had already moved the birth rate to 1.52. Demographers and, of course, those who are watching it will say it's not some result, but it's a trend, which is very important, so we moved up. But then came this evil called the pandemic Covid, and we, by what's realistic, went back to 1.5 or somewhere around 1.5. I just wanted to tell you this, and it's about that very, very difficult data, which is the effect of the crown and the mortality rate. Amendments and additions to the laws adopted under the right to benefit during maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave of work for the purpose of child care, then other child care benefits based on the birth and care of the child and special care of the child, and since 1 January plus the rest. Of course, as of January 1st, 2022, employed women who are self-employed or engaged on the basis of flexible forms of work, and earning incomes greater than three average earnings in the Republic of Serbia will be able to make profits and other benefits of five average earnings in the Republic of Serbia on the day of the start of the absence. There's, of course, a parental supplement, a child's supplement. It was also given the legal basis to the Commission of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund that child health professionals and in the process of exercising the right to cash compensation on the basis of unemployment during the special care of the child. It is regulated to return legally unfounded amounts of funds whose payment is not in accordance with the law. The application of these provisions began on July 1st 2021 and then, at the initiative of President Vukic, the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, on which I headed, again joined the process of amending and supplementing the law. The most important change in the law is an increase in the parental allowance for the first child from 100,000 to 300,000 dinars. The increase in parental allowance for the first child significantly compensates for the initial costs the family has at the time of the birth of its new member. Another new measure of population policy is the new right defined by the name of the right to start construction, participation in the purchase, or purchase of a family residential building or apartment based on the birth of a child. This right will be possible for every mother to be born on 1 January 2022. So that's a day and a half later, on condition that he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that he is resident in the Republic of Serbia and that he first reaches the property of a family residential building or an apartment on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This right can be exercised by a mother who is a foreign citizen and has the status of a permanent foreigner if a child is born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Except in the event of the death of a child's mother, the right can be achieved by the father of a child. The creation of conditions for resolving the family's housing issue is a special incentive measure that should contribute to its stability and security under the given circumstances, and in the coming period it also affects the decision to expand the family, give birth to more children, etc. This measure is of paramount importance to the decision that the family will continue to live in the place of former residence, not to move to another place in the Republic of Serbia or abroad. Given the importance of new measures prescribed by this law to improve population policy, the law should enter into force from 1 January 2022. Thank you for your attention. If there are any questions, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11858	I thank the Honorable Minister. Next up is MP Marijan Risticevic, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have considered "Open Balkans", as it is popularly called, and as president of the most important committee, in my opinion, because the exports of agriculture and food industry are 20% of Serbia's total exports. Therefore, this is the most important branch, which contributes most and where the coverage of imports is by 186%. So, when we bring in coffee, bananas, kiwis, etc. and all other agricultural and food products from around the world surplus is 86%. The value of exports has reached 4.7 billion. The most important partners are the EU, and then CEFTA goes, then Russia. That is why those who are constantly criticizing us for being between Russia and the European Union, I can now answer, although they are not there, in the case of raspberries and apples. If we give up Russia, we lose apple exports. If we give up the EU, we lose raspberries. If we do not give up either, or the other, we trade with apples and raspberries, which is for the benefit of agriculture and agricultural producers. The value of exports to the EU is 55% to 60% of total exports of agriculture and food industry. Since 2008 and 2009, we have become the EU market. By signing the SAA, or by verifying in 2007, by signing 2008 we became the EU market and were difficult to compete with the EU, since in agriculture they still have incentives that are several times bigger than in Serbia. I would like to say that we often compete with the EU under dumping conditions because the EU is able to insert in Serbia agricultural food products below the cost of cost thanks to incentives that are sometimes five times higher than they are in Serbia. It's a winning market with products below cost. That doesn't happen to us with the CEFTA market. Export coverage is significant in CEFTA because it is higher than average and is 240%. So what we import from CEFTA countries is Bosnia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Moldova, I think, and 240% are covered, or 140% more export than we import. That's why the CEFTA market is very important, because we compete with them on equal terms. So there are no incentives in the values highlighted by the EU competition. That is why "Open Balkans" is very important. Macedonia and Albania so far... I don't know why Bosnia won't, I don't know why Montenegro won't, but these two countries they want, I have to tell our farmers that exporting to Albania is 198 million, importing 62 million. So the surplus is 136 million, or Macedonia is more sold by 136 million than we import. Imports from Macedonia are 62, and we export to Macedonia for 198. With Albania, the value of Serbian exports is 51m euros, imports 25. The coverage of exports to Macedonia and Albania is 300%. So 120 percent above average. Our most important products are flour, wheat, corn in general, and especially in CEFTA markets. Imports, our farmers should know, is mostly tomatoes, cucumbers, something of dairy products possible, but it's only in spring. Then they are in a position that is more dominant towards our farmers, because we must guarantee free trade as they guarantee us. If we were to introduce some measures, often suggested, then we would lose an export worth 250m euros. Imports are, just to visit, 87m euros, so three times smaller and we must, of course, as they do, allow competition, but our manufacturers of tomatoes rebel when the price is low in spring, but when they reach the price of 200 dinars in July, in August, etc., then our producers do not object, which is understandable. But we need to know that we're not alone. I welcome the overall "open", especially because of agriculture and the food industry, but overall this is very important, because these are EU principles, free flow of people, goods and capital, and I think that as Serbia, we can be dominant, and everyone else can fix their economic balances. Serbia is not what it was in 2012. Serbia is now significantly stronger. To remind these various environmentalists, etc., that agriculture is a certain way of polluting the environment, but I don't see these environmentalists on bicycles, I don't see that they stopped eating, I don't see them complaining about food quality. Each production requires certain environmental damage. It is important to comply with the regulations, and agriculture is a branch that we cannot give up and that in livestock, for example, pollutes the environment in the air, or a glass garden more than any means of transport on the globe. But since I can't give up food, I'm glad we don't have that kind of rebellion of various environmentalists. Therefore, I expect that at least on the issue of "Open Balkans", in terms of agriculture, the food industry, the large exports we are making, and I have already said that, despite the fact that the EU gives five times as much incentives, despite all this, we have a surplus, we have a coverage of imports by 186%, and this should be welcomed and thanked by our agricultural producers, who, unlike EU producers, have significantly worse conditions to achieve such exceptional results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11860	I thank the honourable MP Marijan Rističević. Next in line is the President of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of Ministers, gentlemen of RATEL, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of today's session is a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on RATEL's work for 2020, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'd like to remind you that it's based on article 28. The Law on Electronic Communications, the RATEL Management Board, is obliged to submit to the National Assembly a report on the work in such a way as to report for the previous calendar year no later than the end of the second quarter of the current year. Therefore, RATEL did so on time and did so, and the committee responsible for spatial planning, traffic, infrastructure and telecommunications also considered this report at its session on 25 November, on the basis of Article 237(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly sent this conclusion to the Assembly for consideration and adoption. What I would like to say about the report itself is, as was the case in previous years, that this year-to-year report really represents better and better results and in this way I really want to congratulate the gentlemen of RATEL on that because they are one of the few institutions that largely fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'll look back on just a few details of this report, which I found so interesting. The total income on the electronic communications market during 2020, and I remind you that this year was the pandemic of the virus, was about 212.3 billion dinars, and thus represents an increase of 2.7% more than in 2019, which is logical that during the pandemic, a lot of Serbian citizens decided to communicate more while they were able to sit at home, so to speak. So when we look at this result, we have that the share of the electronic communications market has taken up as much as 3.9% of the total GDP in the Republic of Serbia, which you will agree with me, one significant result. Of course, the biggest revenues came from mobile networks, then fixed and broadband internet access, as well as distribution of media content and fixed telephony. I must stress that the investments in the electronic communications sector amounted to as much as 48.3 billion dinars. What I would look back on at this point is that we were able to, I say, convince the gentlemen of RATEL that for next year, with the 2022 budget, predict certain funds, I suppose these are also funds that represent investments in the electronic communications sector, which are investments relating to the safety of children on the Internet. I would also invite the ministers who are here today to join this together, because I really think this is one problem that is present and increasingly present. I read you the numbers regarding the use of cell phones. We can't take away our children's cell phone today, it's clear to all of us, but what we can and what we need is that the more we do on parent education and the more we do on the Internet, the safer our children are. The second thing that I would mention, as far as the report is concerned, is the postal services sector, and in 2020, he did business according to the RATEL report, as many as 51 postal operators and they achieved an incredible 308 million postal services, which would mean that every household in the Republic of Serbia during 2020 received as much as 124 shipments, which is indeed an impressive data. As for postal services, i.e. profits, revenue generated from them, this revenue for 2020 amounts to as much as 23.4 billion dinars and represents 0.43% of the total GDP of the Republic of Serbia. What I think really is the key thing in this report is that in 2020, RATEL made a total income of two billion and 240 million dinars, and the expenditures were 815 million, which means that the RATEL profits in 2020 amounted to a billion and 424 million dinars. These funds were paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget by a billion and 417 million being paid directly into the Republic of Serbia's budget, while seven million were paid into the AP Vojvodina budget. Here, I'd like to go back to the beginning now. As I said, this report, or the proposal for this conclusion, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I propose, i.e. I would ask the Members of Parliament to adopt, in the voting day, the conclusion of the Committee which is proposed to accept the report of the RATL for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11862	I appreciate the exposure. The word is by MP Ilija Matejic, as representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11863	Thank you. Dear Ministers with associates and other representatives from the government, first of all, ladies and then gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and what is always most important to me, the respected peoples of the Republic of Serbia, I would first of all like to extend my condolences to the family of the late Branko Marinkovic. In fact, some of you have known him a lot longer than I have. I had the opportunity to get to know him on these public hearings about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and he really made a wonderful impression on me as a normal, smart man, always ready to work, always ready to joke and somehow I'll always remember him as a smiling man. It made the most of his impressions on me, and to him, may eternal glory be, and I want his family to recover as quickly as possible from this loss, if that is even possible. When people like that leave us, it's not just a loss for their family, it's a loss for all of us. So the family is the key, the family is the most important. When you have a strong and normal family, you have a strong state. It is a great pleasure for me to be able, as rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, to address you with regard to the law which is and how it is connected with our families. Namely, these changes and additions of the Financial Support Act to the family with children bring us two improvements. I could put it that way, feel free to say, that these are two gift rights for our citizens and for our young couples with children in the new year. The first amendment is that parents who have a first child will receive 300,000 dinars for their newborn child from Saturday, so as early as January 1st, they will receive 300,000 dinars for their newborn child and once. So, not in wars, but one time, which is not a negligible sum. I will remind our citizens that by just a few years ago they had received 100,000 dinars from the state, that they would now receive 300, and let's say over a period of 10 years ago, when our unfortunate opposition was in power, they were getting nothing, they were even in debt to maternity care here in Belgrade, so they sued the Republic of Serbia, etc. People asked me if it was possible for Serbia to have enough financial resources to bring this up, and I tell them they don't have to worry, that our government has done detailed statistics and analysis of how many about children can be born over the year and that the funds have more than enough. The second change concerns buying the first apartment, buying the first property for young couples. So, we all know how hard it is for young married couples, who have just had a child, who have just begun to work, to acquire that first property, first apartment, first house, to buy it, or to build it, and the state will meet and help them in this perhaps the hardest step towards a better, stable and safer future they have. This is the real reason for politics when you're a patriot, when you love your country, because you know that something will stay behind you, behind your mandate, which soon ends and something that you as a government and we as a National Assembly can certainly be proud of, and with future National Assembly meetings and future government meetings, I want them to just increase these figures, so to continue to increase all these figures. It'll be their only mission. We're making financial progress as a state, and that's evident. You have, of course, those who resent all the good that is happening in the Republic of Serbia, and these are mostly the people who have not planted a single tree for their country, municipality, city or village, and they talk about ecologicality, etc., but they will always be and these moves are more than enough for us to show the people that we care for families in the Republic of Serbia. So we're making financial progress, we're more financially stable, and I'm glad we're taking care of birth and demographics, because these measures will contribute. It may not contribute to the centre of Belgrade, but in smaller environments, believe me, it will, and that in these small environments it will mean a lot, that it will improve both the demographics and the ethnicity of the Republic of Serbia, and we just have to keep doing this, because without a strong family there is no strong state. As for the other draft laws we discussed yesterday on the Committee, and I suggest we all accept them. So, in short, if I were to describe in one sentence that is co-operation with the other countries of the Western Balkans. I'm just as sorry as any normal person that we haven't run a policy like this in the '90s. So Aristotle, in his book "Politika", which was written more than 300 years before the new era, said that the state can only progress in peace, only when it is at peace and it has not changed and it will not change a day today and Serbia is the one who started the Open Balkans initiative. So we're the ones who gave our hand of friendship and reconciliation to other countries in the region. We have some countries, such as Montenegro, unfortunately, and Bosnia and Herzegovina that have not joined this initiative, which speaks more of them than of us. So you can see that their policy is some kind of 90s policy, like they can't get out of the past. We remember the past well, we know our history well, but we must always have a look at the future of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm going to remind our citizens and we're going to raise salaries and pensions from January 1st and people are telling us -- well, you're going to raise salaries and pensions well, but the prices are going up, what does that mean to us? There are people quite right, but does anyone think that a small Serbia can set prices on the world's energy market, gas, food and other products, electricity. So it would be nice if we could, those prices would grow regardless of whether we're raising salaries or pensions and we need to increase them so we don't get too far behind. We are building and restoring Serbia, but we must continue to work harder, to strengthen our economy, to strengthen our economy, to strengthen our military and to cooperate with other countries, because only peace, stability and co-operation are better and a better future for our people and all generations to come. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11864	I thank the honourable People's MP. We now move on to representatives and presidents of the parliamentary clubs. The first on the list is the president of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, Mr Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11865	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Krkobbiæ, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected representatives of independent agencies and regulatory bodies, before I look back on today's agenda, I would also like to give my deepest condolences to the family of a respected colleague, Deputy Secretary General Branko Marinkovic. I was shaken by that sad news. I've had the honor of working together for the past year and a half, and I really testify that it was a very capable, young man whose early departure really saddened me and I direct the words of comfort to his family. Thank him for all his cooperation and a wonderful friendship. I'd also like to give condolences to the members of the families of four young men who died in New Market in a car accident. The city has declared a day of mourning and to call on the authorities to really take an emergency response when it comes to part of the master's trip from Novi Pazar to the settlement of Ribarica, through the village of Mur, because these tragic events happen too often. A huge number of young people and citizens and citizens have lost their lives because they really drive fast. The Ministry of the Interior should take whatever is in their power to prevent these tragedies. There's really been a huge tragedy. I would like to refer to the visit of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to the Sanjay municipalities. I would like to extend my gratitude to President Vukic for visiting Nova Varoš, Sjenica, Novi Pazar and Tutin. That is, I will say freely, one historic visit, because what we have learned, I will remind you that in the spring of this year, the president visited both Prepolje and Priboj, from a political discourse and one manner is that usually the president, prime minister, usually appears when the campaign, when votes are sought and there are huge promises, and few of them, in fact, almost never outside the campaign, the president is the first. Thank him for that. What is particularly important before all these infrastructure works that have been done or signed or promised to be done, to me, as a member of the Bosniak people, is that I heard from the president of my country, my president, that this country, the state of Serbia, belongs to all the citizens and citizens who live in this country. It is an incentive for all of us who in this home and in other institutions make every citizen and citizen feel like they feel this country as their own country. No citizen, if we were to conduct a survey, whether he is Bosniak, Serb, Hungarian, is not ideal, we all have our own private problems, challenges, but what's the good news is that the problems are solved, that people have confidence in the institutions of this country, and in particular trust in the institution of the president, because she and the Constitution are so defined that both ministers and the government have the right to particular interests or to belong to parties, and in fact the president is the only one who is directly elected by the citizens and he belongs to all citizens. For that reason, I'm happy and happy. The second message that has also made me particularly happy is that it is time to start measuring both people and politicians and parties based on action and not talking. To see who did what, not to have prejudice towards people because of names, last names, a certain political period, etc. Before it came my turn to speak here before you, dear colleagues, I spoke to the leaders of the municipalities, among other things, and with the leaders of the Municipality of Sjenica. I wanted to hear their position officially and with certain citizens and what they asked me to pass on is that no one, no other officials came but never one president or prime minister stayed for a few hours in the conversation with citizens, no questions asked, no issues agreed, from those individual problems of citizens to those essential, systemic problems such as power supply, construction of traffic, etc. So, people could freely express their position, express their criticisms, and I think it's something that we and through this coalition co-operation in this mandate have achieved that the president of the state, the government, the ministers, the MPs, the citizens' services, that we are not afraid to hear their court, but that we are simply talking, and even when we get some criticism, it's actually directed to make a more functional system. What I want to point out and what's a fact and a fact, so part of our country where I come from is going to get a pipeline. So, Novi Pazar and Tutin will solve a generation problem that creates conditions for green energy, reduces pollution, we get cheaper energy. The current prices on the world market are the fruit of the geostrategic game. The price of gas in the future I believe will be cheaper. We'll create a condition for big companies to come, because without gasification, there's no faster industrial development. In two years, a year and a half, we expect Prepolje, Pryboy and Nova Varosh to get a pipeline. It's so easy to say -- there's going to be a pipeline, and that's something we really couldn't dream about a few years ago. It's a huge result, and each of us here has contributed to it. The Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party has been a permanent struggle but all those people who voted in this parliament certainly have the right to rejoice but of course the key thing was support from the top, support from the one who has the greatest and authority and support of the citizens, which is President Vukic. What especially all citizens and citizens especially in Novi Pazar are looking forward to is the construction of KBC. Also one thing that Mufti Zukorlic was very much talking about, what he was fighting for, 70m euros will be set aside, the new 15,000 squares, and that is something that really New Pazar and Serbia should be proud of. One more of the things I want to point out is that for the first time, an important interstate agreement such as the continuation of highway construction, whose value will certainly be above 1.5 billion euros, a new 75km highway, has been signed in Sjenica. The highway will reach the Long Field, meaning, between Sjenica and Novi Pazar and our road to Belgrade, to the capital, will be cut to about two hours. That was unimaginable, especially from the Senate. Four or five hours ago, you couldn't make it. Now we create preconditions systemically, essentially, for investors to come and that all citizens and citizens really see things moving. What we can call, under the allegations but large signs of the alleged "small investments" is the school, for example, in Sjenica, which will cost between eight and tenm euros, and the budget of the Sjenica municipality, so that they know how big an investment is, and that is very important since the minister is there, when we talk about population policy, the budget of the Sjenica municipality does not exceed eightm euros. So 100% gives you some investment and increases your budget, and when we talk about population policy, it's really one wonderful, fantastic news, that someone in education, in Sjenica, in Novi Varosha is investing 500 million dinars for a new school, so that part of the country is not forgotten, that it is seriously thought about and that part of the country is accounted for and invested. That's the message of the future. What on the other hand as someone who lives in Prijepolje, in that part of Serbia, is glad to see that people have really given one undivided support, welcomed everything that has been discussed, welcomed all these projects and that is proof that we are going in one right direction. Also, what I have often talked about here is the case of the murder of Edin Hamidovic in Sjenica, and I am glad that members of his family talked to the president and that certain shifts have been announced when it comes to state institutions in Sjenica. When we talk about law enforcement, we're not talking about belonging to either party or national or religious. It's important that these institutions are headed by professionals. It doesn't matter if it's corrupt at the head of the Bosniak or Serb institutions. If he's corrupt, he doesn't do well for the citizens and he has to be replaced. So we have a situation where certain people, a certain Buddha, abuse their badge to use it in political accounts, and that's something we can't agree on. Whenever I hear about a case like that, I'm gonna use this pay phone to point to that deviation. No one should use their position to deal with their political inexperiences, with members of a particular religious community, to help another political party, etc. That nepotism is something we must stop for all time. There are enough decent, capable, written, smart young people and among the Bosniak people, sprawl, Albanian and Hungarian in this country to perform functions, not to be privatised by individuals for more than 20 and 30 years. As for today's agenda, I'm glad the minister is here. We talked more than once about the measures of population policy. This is something and all of these decisions and today's agenda, our MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in Vote Day will certainly support, 300 thousand dinars is an increase in that allowance for the firstborn child. That's one good news, one serious number. Every parent, regardless of the material status, especially the people of the suburban municipalities, from the interior, 300 thousand dinars is one serious number that helps you to keep everything you need for your child, not knowing, of these supplies and when it comes to baby equipment and when it comes to the crib and that nursery, that you can do it politely. There is no parent, whether he was, I don't know, a millionaire or a working family, there is no happier moment than when you become a parent. Everyone wants to give their child the best. I'm glad, we talked more than once about these negative trends, that we're serious about it. Thank you, President, thank you to the government, thank you as a ministry, but thank you to us as a Parliament, too, because we need all of this to be voted out. Dear Minister, we must not stand on this in our parliamentary group, and in our party you will also have conversants and support to continue with these programmes, as some neighbouring countries do. We have provided a very common example of Hungary, etc. Because all countries have a problem, especially in Western Europe, because of these so-called The liberal attitudes of life, where they don't mean that a woman should be a mother, and that a man should be a father, we have some deviations when it comes to family. We must return to traditional family values and therefore need support from all, both academic communities and religious communities and prominent individuals and political elites and any man who can speak with his credibility – it is the last time we move things. We really do. I look forward to this law, but I ask you that when it comes to a part of the country where I come from, you take seriously to consider co-operation with religious communities, because the attitude of those people in that part of our country is respected. It's very important with these institutions when we get support and when, like those who declare that one, how do I say, that liberalism, and I don't know what it means in family relations, we have to talk about those family values. That's why I'm happy to vote because our country is empty. The highway, the pipeline all makes sense the moment we have more of our kindergarten kids, in schools. Never better, perhaps, have we not had conditions when it comes to the appearance of our classrooms and kindergartens, and the percentage of newborn children decreases and that's something we have to reverse. As far as other contracts and laws and reports are concerned, we will absolutely support it. We've discussed it on the resolution committees. In voting day, we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11866	I thank the honourable People's MP Samir Tandira. I give the Minister my word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11867	Mr. Tandir, thank you for these words. We had, if it was some kind of co-operation, we had very good co-operation both in this place and beyond that and with your late president. As far as these measures are concerned, I'll tell you something, I can't help it, there'll be another very pleasant surprise about these measures tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11868	I thank the ministers. Mr. Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11869	Thank you, Minister. You work hard when it comes to your portfolio. It's time to have pleasant surprises. We've had a lot of unpleasant surprises. I think that no one has spoken more about family values in this House than the rickets of Mufti Zukorlic, and for this reason, it is my duty to discuss this topic today and to support this legal solution. One of the reasons why we voted for this government is, among other things, the formation of your ministry, but also other ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture, which may not be so much in the focus of the media, but is doing a very important job when it comes to staying in rural areas and buying abandoned rural houses through cooperatives and through buses used for school children, kindergartens, etc. We look forward and look forward to this joyful news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11870	We thank both Mr. Minister and Mr. Tandir for their constructive discussion. I give my word to the chairman of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. We couldn't do it before because of technical problems, so here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11871	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank Mrs Katarini Rakic, who has very detailedly presented the information from the operation of RATL. I only volunteered to add two, to me significant, information for this Assembly and for the public, which speaks about the quality of the network of mobile operators and our activities in the last year. In 2020, the fourth year in a row, parallel measurement and analysis of service quality parameters provided by mobile operators were carried out. The measurements covered 50 cities, we crossed 10,000 kilometers of roads. Seven thousand calls and seven thousand data transmission sessions were made. The result of this analysis by the methodology internationally established is that we have reached a cross-sectional score of just over 81 points. If I say that in 2017 we started at 55.4 points, that we have now come to 81, and here's the last measurements we had in 2021 we came at 83.5 points, the average score for all three operators, I won't share them, and you can see on our website detailed data for every operator, standard international, and above all in Europe is that everything that's over 80 points is considered an excellent quality of the network. Serbian citizens in all three mobile operators enjoy the excellent quality of the network and I think it is our pleasure. I hope, by the very fact that we have measured this regularly for four years, we have led them to be better. The second thing I want to mention is a network of sensors. You remember last year, thanks to, I'd say, little and some disinformation in the public showed up a story about radiation damage, etc. We've introduced a network of sensors and for several years we've been spreading that network of sensors that we measure at sensitive points the level of electromagnetic radiation. 11 cities are currently covered, we have 73 sensors, 47 were new in 2020, and in 2021 we set 15. We do the sensor layout as we believe it is technically optimal to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Here I have to say that the International Union for Telecommunications has recognised the need for this thing and has made its TK 83 recommendation giving detailed guidance on how to measure the level of electromagnetic field in locations of interest in the long term. The RATEL project, our project, is given in support of this recommendation as the first to describe the network of sensors and provide information to the public at the level of the electromagnetic field on measured units. After that, we were invited by the German regulator to make our presentation, and at a scientific meeting in Poland our project was also presented as a pioneer project from this area. I think we should be proud of both ourselves and all of Serbia because we are practically pioneers in a sensitive area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11872	I thank Mr Kovacevic. We now proceed with the list of authorised representatives of the parliamentary clubs. Next on the list is the Honorable People's MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11873	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Representatives of Independent Regulatory Authorities, ladies and gentlemen of People's MPs, I want to begin at the beginning on behalf of the JS Parliamentary Group and President Dragan Markovic Palma to express my sincerest condolences to the Branko Marinkovic family for his premature and tragic death. Branko Marinkovic was certainly a kind, versatile lawyer. As Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to all of us here, he was always available, at his service and always knew that he gave both a smile and a kind word and a useful advice and certainly that his death was a great loss for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for all of us. Once again, I want to express our sincerest condolences. As for today's debate, today we are discussing a set of laws that are of great benefit to our citizens' better lives. I am not only referring to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Financial Assistance with Children, but also to a set of laws on the validation of the Agreement under the Open Balkans initiative, in particular the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Animal Safety in the Western Balkans, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Free Access to the Market of Work in the Western Balkans, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of the authorisation of authorised economic operators for security and security, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Connecting of Electronic Identification Schemes of Citizens of the Western Balkans. A unique Serbia is a party whose main political principles, primary political principles, are the fight against the white plague. Thus, the Law on the financial support of families with children is both desirable and acceptable to us, because we ourselves are trying to do everything in the environments in which we have received the support of the people in the direction of raising natural growth and creating better conditions for pregnant and maternity women, as well as for families during raising children. For the Single Serbia, the Open Balkans initiative is an excellent initiative, which will bring together the markets of the Western Balkan countries, currently Albania, Northern Macedonia and Serbia, which will make the economy and economies of these countries that have joined this initiative more competitive, the market greater and more significant and also allow free flow of goods, capital, labour force, leading to an increase in economic activity in these countries, and thus to an increase in citizens' living standards. That is why the Single Serbia will support all these proposals in the voting day, as well as these reports of independent regulatory bodies. As I have already said, one of the basic programming principles of the Unique Serbia is the fight against the white plague, i.e. the fight to preserve and improve the vitality of the nation, i.e. to increase natural growth. A weak, more negative natural growth, which you ministers spoke of for a little while, and you presented terrible data on as many as 70,000 people at an annual level, one already larger city in Serbia, the size of a larger city in Serbia, is indeed a worrying fact. The fact itself and this data put the fight against the white plague, or that proactive population policy, as perhaps the highest priority of all policies in Serbia and our current state of mind as regards natural growth, is perhaps the biggest national problem in Serbia. Therefore, it is necessary to take the widest possible social action to do everything to encourage young people to make easier, more often and faster decisions on the creation of a family and the birth of children. Because we're going to have a little bit of comfort from highways and fast tracks and clinical centres, new schools, new open factories, if we don't have anyone to leave it to. Young generations, children, are the future of our country. It is good that we try to leave these future generations with a stronger and more organised and better state, but it is equally important to fight hard to make these young generations more and more, so that someone can continue to build and build this beautiful Serbia. That job must include everyone, both the state and local self-government and the media and educational and cultural institutions and the whole society, because the fight cannot result overnight. Population policy means a long-term fight process that will only give results decades ahead of us. Today, the state increases separation for a family where a first child is born from 100 to 300,000 dinars, allowing them to buy their own apartment or house with the help of the state. These are important measures towards improving natural growth, but they are not the only ones. Namely, Serbia is the leader in attracting foreign investment in the Western Balkans, opening new factories, IT companies, scientific and technological parks, and hence new jobs where young people are employed, is also an important measure in population policy. Care for better pregnancy and maternity status, as well as improving social protection levels, are also important measures of population policy. A unique Serbia, putting the fight against the white plague at the very top of its priorities in Jagodina, for example, where citizens have been supporting us for 17 years, has started with a very proactive population policy from the very beginning. And you, Minister, have recently visited Jagodina, thank you for that, and on that occasion you stated that Jagodina is one of the pioneers in the proactive population policy. We have brought various measures to help families with children, at one point as many as 3,000 euros for each child born, as a measure, then 200 measures each month to the adulthood of the child. Also, funds are being allocated to help pregnant women and maternity mothers, help with artificial insemination, and we have brought in a large number of foreign investors and also hired young people. That's where the results are already coming from. I, as head of the school administration in Jagodina, can say that we have almost every year one student class first higher in Jagodina. This is, among other things, the result and such a proactive population policy. All local self-governments must be involved in this fight, as well as our most important educational, cultural institutions and all media with a national frequency. This should be seen as a decades-old war, but a war where there will be no casualties, but a war for the birth of life. The open Balkans is an economic zone set up by three countries in the Balkans region, which is Albania, Northern Macedonia and Serbia and by establishing this economic zone, these three countries aim to increase trade, co-operation and improve mutual bilateral relations. These three countries together have an area of 131,935 km square, have about 11.8 million inhabitants, population density is 97 people per km square and GDP all three countries together amount to about 80 billion dollars or average GDP per capita is somewhere around $6,256 dollars. Serbia is the largest territorial, most human and economically most developed member of the Open Balkans. We from the JS consider the Open Balkans an excellent initiative, as I said, this initiative will unite the markets of the Western Balkan countries, which will make the economy and economies of these countries that have joined this initiative more competitive, the market bigger and more significant, the free flow of goods, capital, labour force, which will lead to an increase in economic activity, and thus to an increase in the standard of living of citizens. It's not the only benefit of this initiative. Cultural, educational, sports and other forms of co-operation will be strengthened. For the first time in the Balkans, ladies and gentlemen, instead of division and conflict, co-operation and convergence are in place. For the first time in the Balkans, instead of closing borders, we have their opening. For the first time in the Balkans, ladies and gentlemen, instead of fulfilling the interests of foreign forces, we are taking care of our own interests. For the first time in the Balkans, ladies and gentlemen, instead of potentiating the differences, we have potential for common interests. "Open Balkans" means that powder in a barrel called the Balkans has been replaced by tolerance and co-operation. Of course, the "Open Balkans" is open to other Western Balkan countries, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. These countries have not joined this initiative for their own internal and political reasons, but I am sure that the successes of this initiative and the benefits that Albania, Northern Macedonia and Serbia will draw from this co-operation inevitably and will convince our neighbours of the need for them to join and join this initiative. Those who least like the Open Balkans initiative are temporary Pristina institutions. It is clear to them that the "Open Balkans" is the opposite of the geopolitical process they advocate, which would lead to their ultimate goal, which is their secession from Serbia. They don't respond to peace and co-operation, they're comfortable with conflicts, disagreements, tensions. That is why the leaders of Pristina institutions, with the help of the opposition in Albania, organised protests in Tirana and the burning of the Serbian flag at the time of the tripartite meeting of Vucic – Rama – Zajev. The burning of the flag belongs to the Middle Ages. The "Open Balkans" is the future, and the future always wins. Hence and the anxiety of some of our colleagues in this National Assembly, we saw last week, who were forced to read statements in this hall, statements by temporary Pristina institutions, not realizing that the seat of the Albanian national corps was not Pristina, but Tirana. Pristina is a big city in the Republic of Serbia, such as Djakovica, Prizren, Pec, Vučitrn, Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Leposavic. Hence, the impatience of the provisional Pristina institutions towards Edi Rama and the Albanian authorities. Hence the co-operation with the opposition in that country. In any case, the concrete result of a trilateral meeting in Tirana is agreements that are ahead of us that will facilitate trade in agricultural products, significantly facilitate the fluctuation of labour force and the unification of the labour market of these three countries, as well as the unification of the electronic data system in order to make it easier for people to exercise their rights wherever they are in these three countries. The Agreement on conditions for free access to the labour market in the Western Balkans provides for all countries to have the current and equal access when it comes to labour and residence permits. An agreement linking the electronic identification scheme of Western Balkan citizens paves the way for the establishment of a common system so that everyone who wants to register or apply for a work permit in another country can do so via smartphones or computers. The point is, there are no limits for anyone who wants to transfer goods and capital freely or to move their terms. The Open Balkans initiative and the EU accession process are not mutually opposed processes. On the contrary, even during this trilateral meeting, Commissioner Verhelji said the EU supports the Open Balkans initiative. We could have heard the ambassador, US Ambassador to Serbia Godfrida, who also says the United States supports the "Open Balkans", but all of this does not matter, it is important that the countries of the Western Balkans, at the moment of these three countries, have recognised their own interest and good benefits from this initiative called "Open Balkans". The presidents of the three states also urged both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro to join and not waste valuable time, but also said that whoever wants to run – will run, who wants to stand – will stand. We in the JS really think that this initiative is great, that "Open Balkans" is a good initiative. We are pleased with this initiative, and we will be fully satisfied with this initiative when the rules we are establishing for border crossings at Tabanovci and other border crossings are valid and applied at the border crossing of Serbia and Albania, at the Morina border crossing, and at the border crossing of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, at the General Jankovic border crossing. Once again, JS will support all laws and agreements in the voting day for all of these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11874	I thank the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, Life Starcevic. The next on the list is the president of the SDPS parliamentary club, Mr Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11875	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the respected representatives of the ministries, I believe that today may be the most important topic of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. For us from the SDPS certainly focussed whenever we talk about one of these areas. The statistics themselves indicate that we have been having a serious problem for decades ago, when we talk about the demographic picture of Serbia, but on the other hand, the fact is that we have not taken this problem seriously in the last few years, perhaps in the last five years, that in a very serious and comprehensive way we are trying to address the issue of demographics in Serbia. The very fact that we, like this assembly council, supported the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Demography in 2020 says that we have raised to a higher level the subject of demographicism in Serbia. With these changes and additions to the law, we will create conditions that should encourage young people in terms of incentives for birth, i.e. to receive adequate material support. In this regard, I would especially like to set out a new measure, and the minister had just set out my colleagues before me, and that is the right to money for construction, participation in buying, or buying a family apartment or an apartment based on the birth of a child. This new measure is very important. Why am I pointing that out? Because apparently the unresolved housing issue knows that it discourages young people from creating a family or expanding their family. I think that there is often fear in young people when they do not have a roof over their heads, and that may sometimes be a subconscious fear of whether they will be able to afford their family all the things they think they should and thus rarely make a decision to have children and delay that leg for some later years. I believe that this is how one measure of security, especially for young people, is going to solve the housing issue in one efficient, favourable way. When I talked about the state's most serious start to deal with this issue for the last five years, I also have to list some great steps that have been taken in the previous period. First of all, the number of users who can exercise the right to material aid has been expanded and financial support is greater when we talk about the total amount of money allocated to this issue. Secondly, every woman employed during maternity leave has a guaranteed allowance during the absence, and she can't be from the minimum profit at the time of her absence. This is very important, and the condition for it is that it has at least one recorded basis on which contributions are paid. I'll remind you that before that, the condition was that a woman had to have a six-month minimum working hours, so she could use one of these rights. Also, mothers who have a sick child can use benefits, profits with an allowance that belongs to them on the basis of the right to help and care of another person, specifically for a child. In a more favourable position are women living in villages and engaged in agriculture, and so are agricultural insurance companies. On this basis, they can exercise the right to other benefits based on the birth of a child and the care of a child, which was not possible before until we adopted these legal changes. The data speak and the fact is that in 2019 we welcomed better results than it was in previous years. So the new measures immediately produced results, and then more children were born in Serbia in that year and particularly encouraged by the fact that more children were born than when we compare all countries in the environment, means all countries belonging to the former Yugoslavia, including our neighbours Bulgaria, Albania and Hungary. This is one piece of information that gives hope that these measures will achieve satisfactory results. But for analysis, it remains to be seen whether in 2020, probably because of the crown, has led to weaker results in this field. Also, it's always for analysis to discuss the relationship between economic conditions and birth rates. It is certain that the financial moment and material status are an important factor when we talk about increasing the birth rate. However, experience shows that this is sometimes not a crucial factor. The best example for this is developed Western European countries, France, Germany, Belgium, etc., not to mention, where salaries are high, the standard of living is high, and the birth rate is low. However, they otherwise solve the problem of demographics, by importing labour and by getting twice the benefit there. In fact, they bring in experts from other countries, they get productive workers, and on the other hand they get people who are at the best of reproductive age and thus replace the fall of birth in their countries. That's the part where the state should be on the move. That's what we do here today in Parliament when we adopt these legal changes. So we need to work on constantly increasing the standard of living in our country, so that economic reasons do not motivate young people to leave the country. With these measures, we are promoting population policy and creating better conditions and raising the standard of living for citizens. The question of family planning is complex. Everyone has a personal reason when they decide whether to form a family, whether to expand the family, and that's a very sensitive question. But on the other hand, it's up to young people to create a family and raise children. We can always ask if there are ideal conditions for family formation. If we were to deal with what we need to jump in life, perhaps the decision to form and expand a family would be extended for some later years. Now the average age of the mother at birth is 28.8 years. I'll remind you that half a century ago, that limit was 22.2 years ago. This trend of procrastination is not only characteristic of our climate, but is present everywhere in Europe. There used to be examples of people, when I talk about that time from half a century ago, who had a few children and was a higher birth rate, and they lived in much more difficult conditions. Simply, in the 1950s, one family on average had 4.7 children, and now that rate is 2.4. Obviously, the possibilities were low, the standard of living was low, but the desire for a larger family was higher. Obviously, based on all this data, certain social values have changed with us. Statistics and financial support are one thing, and values, beliefs and attitudes are quite another medal of this story. We've adopted a modern mode of reproduction as a result of one trend in the world. Young people put education, loneliness, careers as priorities, and then, ultimately, the creation and expansion of families. The fact is that parenting is delayed for years later. When people finish college, then they solve the employment issue, then they build a career, then they solve the housing issue, and then they decide to become parents. This is exactly the kind of measure they need to contribute to their having one security, to solve the issue of housing as soon as possible, and to make a decision to create a family or expand the family. That's the part where the state is in charge of helping in one appropriate way. I say again that this is a trend that is also present in Europe. Data suggest that in half of the world’s countries fewer children are born, thus reducing the population. Math says the same thing. Mathematics says that when the average number of births falls below 2.1% of the population begins to decrease. Then it threatens everyone in Europe to get into a situation like Japan, to have more grandparents and grandparents in one country than there are grandchildren. As an obstacle to family expansion, many couples claim that they do not own their own apartment or house, that they do not have a permanent job, or that they do not have a high wage. We use these measures, especially when we talk about financial support, but also that support that says that young people can get to the apartment as soon as possible, we help young people get to the roof over their heads, and financial assistance should guarantee that they can afford anything necessary to raise a child. With these measures of population policy, we send a message to young people that they can count on both certainty and security. The latest measures are a positive signal to young people, that the state is doing everything possible to create conditions for young people under equal conditions to be educated first, and then to find adequate work in accordance with their education, to be rewarded for their knowledge, to be rewarded for their skills. As a positive example, I'm going to say one event from today. Today, the president of the Republic delivered employment contracts to the most successful graduates of all medical schools and secondary medical schools in Serbia, so 711 young people today received a job. It's the best message of the state to count on these people, to count on their expertise, that they, by their knowledge, can improve our society with their ideas. It also praised the country's grant project to couples who want to buy a house in rural areas. In this way we solve another issue of migration, which is internal migration, where the trend is observed for people from rural areas to move to cities and for those villages to simply remain empty. When we look at the statistics, we will see that there is a very bad situation in southern Serbia and the east of Serbia. I think there's a negative, infamous record when we're talking about the birth rate. It is also commendable that cities and municipalities recognise demographic problems at the site and take appropriate measures accordingly. I will say something and commend the measures taken by the leaders of the city from which I come, i.e. from the King. For several years, the town of Kraljevo has supported a project called "Tri Plus", and it implies that families that have three and more children receive 30% discount on all municipal services. Since the territory of the city is large and given that certain inhabitants of the city who live in the villages do not use all municipal services, one-off annual aid amounting to 10,000 dinars is provided for such people. I think it's a fair redistribution from the city budget. I can say that this one-time help, those who don't use relief when paying for utility services, uses over 2,000 families from the territory of the city of Kings. Also, from the city budget, funds have been allocated to finance the fourth and fifth attempts of out-of-body fertilisation since 2016. It is important that we have hearing in both the Republic and the local level and that municipalities locate the problem in the right way, to direct help and that it is most needed. I think that's the best way to fix our demographic image. When we discuss the RATL report, we have established a good practice and thus achieve a supervisory role, when we talk about Parliament. From RATEL, above all, I expect it to be a function of fulfilling consumer rights, i.e. citizens who use mobile telephony services in the first place, as well as other means of communication from this area. When the Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services was established 17 years ago, it was tasked that the Agency should ensure the effective implementation and improvement of established policy in the area of telecommunications and this would be aimed at further developing telecommunications and creating conditions for the establishment of an information society. On the basis of the Report, we can assess how successful these measures are, or how successful the tasks are. According to the 2020 Report, RATEL continued its activities aimed at creating a free and open market, while guaranteeing equal positions for all participants. It is important to improve the quality of services. It is also important to protect users of services and information security. First of all, I mean that sensitive category of population, of children, to make sure that our children are above all safe on the Internet. It's also about the quality of the network. We just heard that the average score is 81 points, which is good. It is also good that all data are exposed to the public, which anyone can go to the RATEL site to see the quality of every network of mobile operators and on the basis of making a easier decision to define in the selection of operators. When citizens are satisfied, it is then the best indicator of work and RATEL and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, because I know they co-operate closely. So, MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the report, as well as other reports and draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11876	I thank the president of the SDPS parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group, Dr Emese Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11877	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are several reasons why the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and because we believe that the pillar of our programme is the protection of families and children. Since 2016, it has been practically mandatory for each of our coalition agreements, with the SNS, to have the right to compensation for child birth and care income, to be borne by both mother and father, as well as a member and family member of the agricultural land. Then, the battle followed, since nearly six years ago, when our parliamentary group advocated that the provisions of this law comply with the requirements of real life and the objections we referred to in the 2016 draft, it was precisely this issue. We've affected the solutions that have changed, about this law. For example, we have advocated equal treatment of persons, who are the holders of family agricultural land and persons engaged, based on a contract on temporary and occasional jobs, with persons employed by the employer. It means there's no discrimination between some people about this law. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court's decision of 3 and 17 December 2020, then on 15 April 2021, when the Constitutional Court confirmed that other birth, care and special care benefits for children can also be granted by mothers who are farmers, under the same conditions as those applicable to other insurance companies. The same decision of the Constitutional Court also abolished provisions that made it impossible for parents of sick children to receive income compensation during maternity leave, leave for the care of the child and the absence of special care of the child, if they are already receiving an allowance for the assistance and care of the other person, based on the disease of the child. We see these decisions as a confirmation of the regularity of our policy as small victories, but they are very important for achieving our goals. The current law on supporting the family has changed several times, new measures have been introduced, results are half-way through, and unfortunately this is not only up to us, but these are the demographic characteristics of modern society, all of Europe, the Western world, and so are our countries. If we look at UN data, that even two-thirds of European countries, introduce some kind of adventurous measure, start with monetary bonuses for each child born, as is this bill of law, then tax relief from parents, which should be considered, then paid maternity leave that can benefit both father and mother. It is not comforting for us, however, that these changes and practical measures vary from country to country and fertility rates across Europe and in the Western world, however. Unfortunately, we need to solve some problem that has come up for a long time, when we compare data from the 1950s, then we see that some 150,000 children, or babies, were born in Serbia, and the negative trend began in the 1990s, noting that they were the beginnings of the war years, on our premises. Unfortunately, in 2020, as my predecessors have already said, 62,000 children were born. Some 2021 forecasts are about the same number, although when you're looking at the average now, about 60 babies are more born in this period than last year. It's an increase of about 0.1%, but let's hope it's going to be a trend. As for the rate of natural growth, unfortunately it is negative in Serbia, some eight prominions, in Vojvodina negative seven prominences. If we compare that ten years ago the natural growth rate at the level of the Republic of Serbia was minus 4.9, and in Vojvodina it was five promiscations, then it was a drastic decline and really should be paid attention. Unfortunately, if we look at, compare European countries, there is no national birth rate greater than 2.1 children and it is saddening and it shows where this continent is going somewhere. However, what we can change if we change the system, or if we introduce systemic solutions. It is certainly one thing to encourage mothers to give birth, or women to accept motherhood. Certainly this draft, or monetary supplement, is 300,000 dinars for each firstborn child is a very important incentive for young mothers. Also, for a future, which is very important, because a child is born, so it is born, and what we will do next, it is very important that you think as a ministry and government about helping young families, especially mothers who have fought with fear of accepting motherhood. Practically, the state does, or financially supports the construction or purchase of an apartment that will practically be on behalf of the mother. The policy of intelligence again, I stress, should be systematic, because as I said earlier, the child is born and that is the first step. It's very important, perhaps the most important step, because without children, we are talking about the most natural program, but whether a person, a family, is going to accept that he's raising a child, that he's giving birth to a child, depends on how much mothers, how secure they feel in our society. My mother's commitment to having a baby is much bigger than my father's. At times, the mother suffers, or risks, in the birth of a child, the most important thing to her is to keep the child safe, to be fed, to have a future of her own. Maybe it's one of the reasons why today's mothers who are more educated, who are thinking about the future, who can plan a family, are more difficult to accept this venture, so birth, because they don't feel safe in society. It may be a guideline that the government should consider, your ministry should plan. So it's not just a child at birth that matters, it's what happens to that child. Do we have enough kindergartens, whether we have enough kindergartens, whether our schools are good, what will happen to the child after school duties, who will wait for him, who will do homework. In front of the SVM, I've already talked a few times about maybe having to think about turning one of our own faults, or extra labor, the extra teachers into our advantage. That these teachers, which I mention, are mostly women, we hire them at schools, to deal with students, while they stay in schools, to do homework, to learn with children what they need to learn, so that the families will be free of the additional obligations of time and material. So you don't have to take a kid private to someone to hold math, physics, chemistry, geography, mother tongue, but it'll all be done in schools. At the same time, you hired young teachers, again, most of them women, and that's how we closed a much bigger circle than it seemed at first. The welfare of the family is very important. If we look at what happened earlier, back in the '50s, we're a little older, maybe we remember back there in the '60s, '70s how it was. In all the small environments there were cultural societies, sports associations, where children were interested, engaged in sports, normally for free, taught dance, taught folk dances, performed acting, all from some enthusiasm of teachers who were the most important link in this next step when the child was born, when it was intended to practically create a protective circle around him. Maybe in that direction you should think about, strengthen in that way and small environments, not to say villages that are extinct, which are the basic problem with rural households, who are thinking about whether they will have children or not, where at school, where at some extra classes, where at some sports activities, you have to drive them away to some cities, to ensure everything as children who live in the city. If we look at the average age of mothers my predecessors talked about, today it's 28 years on average when a woman decides she's going to have a baby, because she needs to finish school first, she needs to find a job, that that same mother who sacrificed herself for that child, to give birth to that child, has some certainty that her child will still be able to live decently. We welcome in front of the SVM, the government's decision to propose, or at the universities of which is the founder of the state of Serbia, that young students will still be able to accept parenting and will not have disabilities, as far as the university itself is concerned. We have suggested several times that we should consider the motivations of employers to accept the employment of young women who are likely to be born or who have young children. The law passed some guidelines, instructions, inspection controls that are justified, but remember these are repressive measures, so you should think about motivations. Whether it's a tax relief, whether it's a relief in some sense that this employer really is, not just out of fear of hiring a young woman, but to be motivated to hire a young woman, to benefit from it, if that same young woman after a few months, after she's trained to leave that job again, because she wants to give birth to one, two, three, four children. These are major problems for a more developed economical much stronger state, but the "Brane Storm" might make us smarter, so we can come up with something from our own resources and adapt to our living conditions. Entrepreneurs, another topic, it is very important that the laws be applicable to them and that they feel that they can freely be women entrepreneurs and that they can simultaneously be realised as mothers, that there is no handicap for them to think about whether they should shut down their actions, so that they do not suffer materially, large taxes that they will not be able to achieve. When you look at statistics, there are far fewer women, businessmen, if you look at the number of 280 thousand entrepreneurs in Serbia, one quarter of them are in Vojvodina, and the women are only 31% present as entrepreneurs. Seven years ago, it was even 25%. So some positive trend exists, but you should think about it. Perhaps you should think about it, encouraging women to have children first, to ensure some social assistance and only later to ensure that they are free to have five, six-year-olds who can stay in kindergartens, mangers, entertainment schools, schools with extra stay and then start setting up some of their entrepreneurships. As for harmonising professional and family life, it is one of the biggest problems, not only with us, but also with the EU. For a woman, it may be the biggest challenge, to be professionally successful, to advance, to complete some of her duties, training, colleges, specialization, and also to be present as a mother and to ensure some family warmth, it is a great challenge. Without the support of society, it's practically impossible to do. I would once again mention some examples from neighbouring countries, that perhaps you should think about grandparents, that they could possibly be provided with the possibility of opening up maternity leave, if a young woman wants to continue her career, or if her income is very important for the survival of the family, and in this way would be practically solved by the problem within the family, and I believe that many women, many parents would be too happy to help their sons, daughters, and to find them to help raise children and in some way, be paid eventually, during that time of absence. As for some economic security, not only it, but social security, it is very important that some material security is very important that the cultural and sociological support of the community is strong as regards family and child rearing. In addition, health care, very important, I believe that you have all noticed and we all notice that more and more health care institutions, in which our residents, our people have to turn to get proper rapid diagnostics or possibly some medical help. By strengthening primary health care, pediatric services, in small areas, we will help this same family, which we expect to give birth to as many children as possible, to help increase the population. I've also talked about it a few times before that we should think about some resources, and one of these resources is dental protection. Perhaps families who have several children or even one child should be offered free dental care, such as the current state of birth and pregnant women can have free dental care, but if they start working, if they are a working-active population, they lose practically that privilege, and a few days ago I set the example that we have an extremely large number of completed dentists, another large resource that we could use positively. Also, if we're already talking about how and where the parents' difficulties are, they're supposed to be, at least one of them working active, their health care, their working environment control, depending on the health care of workers, and that's one profession that's been neglected for years at our place, we have very few specialists in medical work, which are excellent experts to assess whether a working environment is appropriate, whether someone can do some work or should change some of that. So that's one area where we could take a step. As far as abroad is concerned, the best indicators are currently Europe and France, which, about 3.5% of gross income is transferred to the family health and social protection system, so it provides more kindergartens, family support with children, these kindergartens are free or subsidized and it adds various monetary incentives to families, gives a monthly child's allowance that we have in our country and so on. One-time child scholarship of 9,500 euros at the birth of each child, our 300,000 is approximately something that follows that trend. As for the other countries, France is accompanied by Sweden, Denmark and Hungary. Hungary has a very ambitious plan since 2019, a demographic reconstruction programme where, for example, they have introduced a lifelong release of a mother with four and more children on income tax and young family issues has also helped to buy large vehicles where it can cost more people, or more children. As for the SVM parliamentary group, we will support the proposed changes and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, because this is the first part of our programme and we advocate to improve the general conditions in health, education and social policy, because we believe that this is part of this demographic programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11878	I thank the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group. Dear People's MPs, you know we have an extremely full agenda and we're already working on the second continent this afternoon, and I hope that somehow until the break we'll be able to finish, at least with authorised representatives. So I ask everyone to adjust their exposure to the time available to us. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11879	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. I, like my colleagues, will take advantage of the opportunity to give my sincerest condolences to my colleagues from the SNS, and then to my dear friend Branko's family. We've known each other for years, and I'm pretty much still caught up in the fact that he's gone. May the noble soul find peace for him. For the Serbian Parliament, all of us who are friends, it is a serious loss. I will honor your appeal to the esteemed vice presidents and indeed shorten my discussion so that the representative of the most numerous party in parliament can speak before the break at 1400 hours. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the ministry, although when we started this session there were several representatives, and now I think the number has dropped, but it is important to me that the minister is there because of the important task everyone has been talking about, and so will I. A set of no less important reports and laws in the proposal for this plenary work, I will refer to them, but it is certainly a priority of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's Assembly, above all, I would say, long before this session showed its readiness and determination to deal seriously with the burning problem of the Republic of Serbia, which is the fall of birth. All the measures that have been taken, I will go back maybe as much as necessary, and that is to point out that at one point we have formed a very responsible Ministry without portfolios in charge of population policy. Today, respected ministers, a resort dedicated exclusively to taking care of the family, of what is the tradition of Serbia, and of what is the pillar of a state. I think that's where all the solution and all the responsible policy of the ruling majority is summarised in relation to this burning problem. A number of measures have been taken, a number of measures have shown effects. I listened to your opening statement. You've also explained exactly what it looked like in percent, how small-looking there might have been, but the shifts happened. I am sure that we will achieve the effect we want, and the common goal is for our country to remain with our grandchildren, to be its owners and to be on that land, except that they live and buy benefits from it. The causes of Serbia's depopulation differ. And we could talk about it for a long time, there are factors that are affecting and will always affect, there is no dilemma, but from the point of view of today's young generations, which, above all, refer to these measures that we are talking about today, which, above all, refer to these amendments to the law, the main factor affecting this decision to form a family and give birth to the offspring is primarily sociological and social nature. I understand the problem absolutely also with the position of representatives, or MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I fully advocate equal rights and equal chances. The law that is before us brings a measure that is very attractive, which is an increase in the parental allowance for the first child to 300,000 dinars. I would like to commend it as, first of all, one stimulating measure that we firmly believe will reflect positively on birth policy in the next period, not because we do not now sound banal, that it does not seem that people will opt for birth because of 300,000 dinars, but because it is one aid that is valuable to parents who are young, which is valuable in the work in which you know you can count on it and that first step, you get over that first year a little easier than you'd rather not have. So I consciously define all the aspirations, because, as with all the proposals made by this assembly in the bill, there is always one minority who criticises it, but criticises it to the level of banalising it, and it is a sin to banalise topics such as this one, and it is a sin to banalise changes like this, before they are except in this part of the financial one-time help and help to provide, that is, the housing issue of these young parents, those people who need to be reprieved, or mothers based on the birth of a child. The date of application of this measure was marked as 1 January 2022, and that formally means that the mother of each child born on 1 January 2022 will be able to apply to support the state when it comes to resolving the housing issue. I will take the opportunity to look back and talk to you first, Ministers, and then draw attention to one sensitive and special category of our society, and these are single parents who are very often not visible enough or encouraging measures are not sufficiently precise when they are concerned. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to the bill. I'm asking you to take a look at it. The intention was good. It doesn't oblige the government to accept him as such, but I think it has a basis to define all of this more precisely in the law, first of all, the position of single parent. Why do I say that? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act in our country regarding single parents in Serbia, in Article 66, provides that families, mothers, single parents and children in the Republic of Serbia enjoy special protection under the law. That's right. A law that regulates the position of single parents in Serbia in more detail has never been passed, and Family Law provides for a category of parents who exercise parental law on their own. The only relatively clear and comprehensive definition of a single parent provides a rule on closer conditions and how to exercise the right to financial support for the family with children. Although it's not about single parents, it's about single parents. Namely, in this Regulation only points out the necessary documentation necessary in the process of proving the status of a single parent and we in the proposal for an amendment, you will see it in an explanation, try to define and how to obtain this definitive status of a single parent so as not to be abused as such, but, on the other hand, that at no cost is neglected, no matter whether it is a single mother or perhaps with an accent on a single father, since these changes that we have proposed are somehow heard by the mother very often. You know, it's undeniable that, unfortunately, we've had situations that aren't up to people, which is that it happens to us that at birth mothers don't survive. This creates a single parent’s category, or single father, and in this direction we thought about when, above all, we proposed an amendment. I'm saying again, it's not an obligation to accept it, but I don't think it would be a bad idea to talk about it. Lawyers in practice often complain and talk about how difficult it is even to exercise rights based on single parents, single mothers, especially when it comes to charges and alimony. We remember well, you spoke very studioically about this, Minister, and with complete awareness of the problems that arise. Unfortunately, each individual’s problem differs. As much as we want to categorize a certain group of people and within a categorized group, all the problems are different. It is impossible for us as a state to respond to all of them, but we have a commitment, first of all as MPs, to recognize their needs, and perhaps in that sense, we first intervene just so that they don't stay with a particular dilemma that would result from our procedural error, to define everything that needs to be defined, to make it easier for these people to function. The fact that even a child grows up in conditions without both parents is quite burdensome, and I also say that in terms of how a child is raised in these circumstances, let alone a parent who takes care of a child, whether he is a father or a mother. It's stressful, it's hard. They're facing different problems all of a sudden, and I really think we should pay attention. In addition to the economic instability that they have as such a category, there are also concerns about these children and the lack of free time and simply the lack of time that parents and children can spend together, which I think may be the most difficult thing going on in these circumstances. After the 2011 census and according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, in Serbia, it is a fact that 17.3% of the total population make up such family communities. That's not a small percentage. It's literally like that. Yeah, I missed the time. I'm sorry, Vice President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We will certainly support the proposed measures in the voting day. I still have to refer on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the parliamentary group to the proposed laws concerning the Open Balkans initiative. There's a lot to be said about that, but I'm only going to say one sentence. For those of you who don't understand the quality of an initiative like this, let them pay attention to how unquality all those who criticize it are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11880	Thank you. Last speaker of Parliament Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11881	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today one and how important the law is, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. We all agreed here that the issue of population policy is one of the most important issues. We all agreed that the issue of negative natural society is not a problem that has been present since yesterday, is not a problem that was present since three years ago, not since five years ago. Too is a problem that has been present in the Republic of Serbia since the '50s, especially since the 1970s, but no one with the issue of birth, the question of reducing the population, the issue of supporting the family and children has dealt with the arrival of Aleksandr Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic is the first statesman to raise the issue of population policy under the carpet and say the issue of birth, the issue of population policy, the issue of demographic policy is a matter of national and strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia. The issue of birth is the question of all questions. Serbia is making economic progress today. We have new factories, we have the fastest growing economy in Europe, but Serbia has to worry about its future, and that future is our children. It is this bill that provides another type of financial support to families who want to give birth to children and, above all, refers to mothers who decide to give birth to the first child, regardless of the pandemic of Kovid, regardless of the world's largest economic and health crisis since World War II. The state of Serbia, its government and President Aleksandar Vucic shows that this problem is approaching in a versatile way. In just three years, from 2018 until today, as this Bill proposal is regulated, the parental supplement for the first child will increase three times. Any mother who has a first child since 1 January 2022 will be entitled to a parental allowance of 300,000 dinars and, of course, a child's equipment fee of 5,000 dinars. That's not all. Your ministry has visited many local self-governments, and it is good and certain that you have come to the conclusion and concluded that local self-government is involved in its local decisions and that they are engaged in a population policy and those on their own side contribute to the birthing and raising of birthrights. I must also point out that this bill provides for yet another very significant measure, to enable it as a right to receive money for building a house or buying a residential building or to stop by the birth of a child. It has never happened before that a mother who has no immovableity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is entitled to funds based on the birth of a child to provide and resolve the housing issue. This is very important from the aspect of women's support to make a decision to give birth, but also how important it is from the aspect of support that parents decide to have a second and third children after the first and third children, because we all know that the level of fertility in Serbia in the last ten years is between 1.4% and 1.5%, and that for a simple reproduction, it is necessary for a simple renewal of the population by mother. Also, I would like to point out that it is the first time since the takeover of the Serbian Progressive Party and that it has expanded the scope of the right to maternity leave. Never before have women agricultural insurance and women who are in agricultural insurance been able to use the right to maternity leave. Never before have women engaged in temporary, occasional jobs in business contracts had the right to use maternity leave. Also, the early payment of maternity leave was mostly through the employer, and it was spinning at the time of Gilas in some bewitched circle. By the time the mother was born, there was a great period of time. Today it is possible, through earlier amendments to the law, in the previous years, that maternity leave goes directly to the mother, not to the employer. So maternity leave is paid in a day. The state has the means and makes sure that maternity leave is paid off in time. What's important is that regardless of the length of the job, the 18 months each mother can't receive less under the minimum wage during maternity leave, and the minimum earnings from January 1st 2022 is about 300 euros. Therefore, major developments were made on the family empowerment plan when it comes to the birth of children. I'd like to appeal to all women who want to have children, to do so. There are no more noble things than giving life, and only a woman can do that. The state is there to help support both mother and family and children, so that children grow up and have normal conditions for growth and development. I apologize, I have to look back at the period since 2012, the period of rule of the yellow tycoon company, the time of the rule of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, who did not hesitate to rob children or maternity. So Dragan Gilas remained in debt and robbed the families of the city of Belgrade for 400 million. So Dragan Gilas robbed his parents through paying childcare costs at twice the amount. Of course, 15,000 parents filed a lawsuit and, of course, that the state had to pay back the parents' money illegally taken by tycoons and people's money robber Dragan Gilas, but for that money, the state of Serbia could have built 15 kindergartens, i.e. in the city of Belgrade, a new 15 kindergarten could be opened. Dragan Gilas did not cease to rob children by opening and bringing the first reality of the Big Brother's home programme. Namely, for the construction of the Big Brother's house, he made a false contract and repossessing the children of the city of Belgrade, with the contract being designed to build an object of general social interest, i.e. to build a living room for children. Of course, the living room was nothing, the children were robbed. Dragan Gilas has crushed millions of dinars trading for seconds on TV, so his pockets are now full of money. During the government's exercise, it was worth 619m euros. Also, I would like to point out that Dragan Gilas thinks about children and children attending preschools by opening the "cloud" children's kindergarten on Stararari, the kindergarten opened without having been connected at all with water or sewers. That's how Dragan Gilas thought about children. That's how kids were supposed to be out of water and out of sewers in kindergarten. Not to mention the Heterland Castle and the worst possible robbery of children distracted by Bojan Pajtic of 157 million, leaving behind only the ruins. Thanks to the responsibility of the province's government, the Hetherland Castle is now restored and it is to the joy of all children of Serbia. Also, I want to highlight what is being done today and what the Serbian Progressive Party has done since the takeover of power, 200m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget have gone to rebuild around 200 schools attended by 110 000 students. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic opened one of the most modern elementary schools in Novi Varosa, a children's pool in which the state invested 500 million dinars. Did anyone take care of the children of the Shadow? Did the previous power of robbers and tycoon Dragan Gilas even know where Sjenica was, or did they just know that there were very low temperatures, so they went around? Today, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, thanks to his fiscal consolidation measures that have led to a healthy economy, basic school values of 10m euros will be built in Sjenica, a school that will be proud, schools for the 22nd century, so that children from Sjenica will have the same conditions as children in much more urban cities. There's not a single local self-government in which it wasn't built on school infrastructure. I will give another example, and it is children with developmental disorders and support from the state, or parents. At the time of Dragan Gilas, the personal escort service in Belgrade was zero. A personal companion is usually a child escort distracted by development. Today, there are 500 personal escorts in the city of Belgrade who are supporting and helping parents of children distracted by development. Finally, on 3 April 2022, citizens will go to elections and vote for life policy, peace policy, stability policy, the politics of new cradles, which is the policy of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11882	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11883	I'm really gonna respect the weather. Let me just say thank you for your participation in this subject and for the high degree of understanding of the problem that is beyond all problems, you all said that. Absolutely, once again I use the opportunity to say that we have a lot of problems, like all other peoples, and the biggest problem is demographics, absolutely. Someone's going to say, "Dmitrovich, you've become like a macaroni, you're going to go to the village and cry, and I just have to, it's an integral part of me, to warn you incessantly." We are the people who disappear at the lightning speed of Ponic the data I said, 70,000 will have us at the end of the year, or in two days, to be less than born and dead. Only two years ago, that was $37,000. Is it just the crown? Yeah, but it's not just a crown. Corona participates in third place, cardiovascular disease is the first. Can you do something colossal with these measures? He can't. None of us are so thrilled to say – now it will solve it, because everything around us and in Europe says that money is important, but it is not crucial. We have a problem that's layered, which is complex. It's a mosaic where every cube is important. If we don't get him right, we won't do anything. Because this is a question of consciousness. When you mention it, then someone who's against it, and you always have someone who's against it and someone who's oppositionally appointed, no matter who's in power, and then he starts contorting, says, "Give us the rule of law, let us have bigger salaries, give us kindergartens." And then he or she goes from his family to Sweden, where there's all this, times ten, and do you know how many kids she has? One. We have to start to admit, we can solve this problem when we admit how difficult it is, and it's hard because, I repeat, we've come into the sphere of change of consciousness and everything we say, we have to go from ourselves. We have married couples, the vast majority, or at least the majority, which proves these results, which have one child. When they're ahead of the election for another child or another apartment, 80% of the cases pick another apartment. That kind of Commodity of ours, not just ours, but the modern man has led us to where we are. You mentioned France. They are at 1.8 highest in Europe, most of all in Europe are French 1.8. They have 65 million, 67 million, but it's crucial, but it's certainly important that they have 6 million Muslims who still have what Christians are, most of us here belong to this religion, lost, and that's the feeling of family. There's no demographics and renewal of demographics without family, gentlemen, you all know it well. Our family has been destroyed, our relationship with the family has changed. You can have one child in an out-of-marriage relationship, but you can have three or four children in a family. It's not the strength of an individual. An individual is only strong if he comes from a strong family, if he comes from a strong society. I ask you all to keep in mind that not everything that is modern and everything that brings new time is so good. We don't have time to talk about it. I'd very much like to talk about it, because I'm meeting, when I mention something from the past, it's conservative, it's retrograde, we can't go forward. We had more and more laws about children and the law on the rights of children and the law I don't know who, and we have fewer and fewer children. We're making a mistake somewhere, folks. How can so many stories have so many legal solutions and regulations and fewer children? It's a matter of consciousness. It's just a question of whether or not we're going to admit it. It's not all that was wrong. It's not real to be bad. Where are we from in the end, and each of us finds it good? So those who created us, the system and the way and the family relations, there was something good. How come so many geniuses, how come so many people with such minds, with achievements in the sphere of science, art? What was good about them? How is it possible that nothing was good until our generation arrived, I don't know which of the last decades? We've got to find a solution here somewhere. This isn't a question, is there a formula? There's no one here. Whoever has the formula for demographics will be the richest man in the world. It doesn't exist, it can't be. It's daily work and daily thinking about this problem, to keep it on our desk and to get away from ourselves, not to lecture others – well, if you don't have children, well, I'm sorry, how many you have. There are those who can really ask that question as well as people and as highly educated and as artists and as athletes and as parents or parents or mother with three or even more children. Even in this government, we have those. So it's possible. A question of consciousness. I'm going back and I'm ending up with the measures proposed. They are extremely significant, a great effort has been made to make the budget stand and to endure and there will still be improvements in that sense and I hope... The deadline is short, and as long as this government is going to be, that is, we know that there will be elections and what will be next. It doesn't matter if someone else or me sits in my seat, but whoever sits here has to insist on something called consciousness, and the first sentence is – are we really aware of what situation we are in, how difficult the situation is? In 2050. The Serbs will be, I apologize to those who are not Serbs, I am talking about the majority people, the Serbs will be four million. Guys, four million. We're here near the border that if we cross the road, we're gone. That a woman gives birth to eight children, we won't be able to return, because there will be few women in the reproductive period. In 2050, there'll be four million of us if we don't do something. Seventy thousand this year we end up in negative. That's creepy. I hope we talk. The door's open, the phones are open, everything about this ministry and the government, you're looking for conversations, thematics, whatever, and you're going to get them. So you have an open door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11884	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint principle and uniform search. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work, a joint single search of the proposals for acts from the act. The 2nd and 3rd agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Aleksandar Pantic, an election member of the High Council of Judges. We welcome him. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. Paragraphs 3 and 201 and 157, respectively, of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and a list of candidates for a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Alexander Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11886	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, you have before you a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office. We have a proposal for candidates for three basic courts and three economic judges. As always, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has announced in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia the choice of judges for basic courts in Gornji Milanovac, Majdanpek and Užica, as well as for business courts in Kralje, Čačka and Zrenjanin. Following the announcement of the elections, a procedure has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges in a permanent court office in the second or higher court and the Rules on the programme and the method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. Here, given that we have two types of courts, one court of general jurisdiction, a basic court, we also have candidates for a court of special jurisdiction, economic courts, two commissions were formed, two procedures were conducted, two exams, all in accordance with the Programme Regulation and the way the exams were passed. Following the procedure, the High Judicial Council Commission provided complete material to the High Judicial Council. The High Council of the Judiciary has obtained information on the opinion, on the expertise, on the competence and dignity of candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate is acting in legal matter, and the opinion of the general session of the Court of Justice in which the associate is acting, as well as the opinion of the session of all judges directly before the Court of Justice. Following the procedure, the High Judicial Council, held on 2 December 2021, established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of these ten candidates in your materials. And there are short biographies of these candidates, so I'm not going to repeat what you have in your materials. The following candidates are presented: Katarina Jevtović, Judge at the Main Court in Gornji Milanovac, who is proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Gornji Milanovac, Ivana Izvonar, Judge at the Main Court in Majdanpek, is proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Majdanpek, Vladimir Stajić, judge's assistant in the Higher Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Majdanpek, Jelena Petrović, a graduate lawyer in the Pristupak Pristava for the Court of Justice in Užica, Aida Nikitović, is proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Majdanpek, Branka Sarenac, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy of Justice, the Pristup of the General Court of Justice of the Court in the Court of Justice and the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Generally, the proposed candidates are co-workers of the courts for which we have also proposed candidates to be elected as judge for the first time in office, with the fact that there were not enough candidates from the Main Court in Majdanpek and that candidates from other courts and other places were proposed, with them being shown to have to stay in Majdanpek and to perform judicial duties in Majdanpek. They accepted it, so they would move to live in Majdanpek to perform their judicial duties. These are candidates proposed by the High Judicial Council after checking all candidates who applied for the ad. The only thing I have left to ask you to do in the voting day is to support the proposal of the High Council of Justice and to vote for the proposed candidates. Since I won't answer for the word later, I would also take the opportunity to congratulate you on Christmas and Christmas holidays and wish you a happy and successful New Year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11887	Thank you. As chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the word has been made by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the motion to elect a member of the Competition Protection Council, I have come forward. It is proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Based on the competition announced by the president of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs received competitive documentation from candidates, with all candidates who were in the mood to conduct interviews and talks, which is our obligation also under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A discussion has been held and a decision has been made to propose to the National Assembly for a Member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council, Mr Radojić Cedomir. When we say that the Competition Protection Commission performs a function, most of our citizens, even the MPs, think of the following - that the job of competition and that of the Commission is to protect the end-user or the participant in some action, not to reach this monopoly position that is always at the expense of the end-use of goods and services. That is true, but I would not agree that this is the basic and most important function of the Commission. The Competition Protection Commission is an independent body that also needs every economy, in particular an economy that, such as Serbia, does not fall within the ranks of large markets, a large number of consumers and a large number of producers. If there is a build-up of a monopoly position on the market, it is not only a problem of the end consummation of goods and services, but also of all those involved in this supply chain, starting with manufacturers, carriers, wholesalers, importers and not counting further. Each monopoly position that occurs in one country always causes great damage, and often damage that is hard to compensate for. Unfortunately, in our recent past, we have one such situation. Thanks to the lack of legal regulation and the fact that our Competition Protection Commission did not start its work, which was otherwise set up by the Competition Protection Act, according to the 'Official Messenger' 79 of 2005, it was September the month when the law was passed, you always have those transitional and final provisions when a state body begins to operate, etc., there was a certain monopoly position on the market in a privatisation process that was highly suspicious, privatisation that went out of bankruptcy and privatised, i.e. purchased assets of a creditor. I'm talking about the "C market". He then bought the company Delta 76% of the ownership of the C Market, and this was paid by Mr. Miskovic for 44m euros. The problem is when you buy something out of bankruptcy, there's no going back to the original state. The damage caused by illegal bankruptcy is compensated by the state. It was the first step towards one, I can say, an economic process that would cost Serbia dearly, and not only Serbia as a state, but all its citizens. Because at that moment, by taking over the "C Market" Delta Maxi controlled over 70% of the Serbian market. With 70% of the control of the Serbian market, you control not only the prices of goods and services in that activity, but also the prices at which you purchase goods, the prices at which you are transported goods, the deadlines for payment of goods. Anyone who works in the area, I'm talking about goods of broad consumption, wanted, didn't have to co-operate with the Delta Company under the conditions under which the company determined it. This meant that Miskovic had accumulated the capital of a large part of the Serbian economy thanks to his monopoly position, which had to be compensated. So those who gave him the goods had to do business and the lack of funds that were created because Delta Company did not pay its commitments to make up for the loan. There again comes Miskovic and "Delta" which, due to earlier, later procedures, affects the reference interest rate. No matter what the reference rate is, loans owed to both the economy and the population, even the state becomes larger, or more expensive with a higher interest rate. This was the first step our citizens felt in 2008, 2009 and 2010 when the global economic crisis broke out. That was the first step. The reason for the high interest rate reference rate was the deposits seen by Miskovic to his business banks, and the funds were from his suppliers to whom he did not settle his obligations. So, he sold the goods, made money on that transaction, invested money in a bank on assets deposited after sightings, and again the bank returned the same funds through some kind of interest. That's why it had to be a high interest rate reference rate, because below the interest rate reference rate nobody's going to place their money in business banks. However, when suppliers exert some pressure on Delta Company to get paid by the goods, Miskovic again enters another transaction. At that time, his daughter companies in Slovenia, Bulgaria and Cyprus deliver fictitious products and services for imports. Through these fictitious accounts, a warrant is provided to business banks to buy foreign exchange funds, where market and foreign exchange disturbances are caused, or euro is collected by two to three dinars within less than 24 hours, with Delta Company buying at the time when it established a request for the purchase of foreign funds. When the transaction is completed, money is gradually returned, where again on the exchange rate differences achieved by Delta Company and Miskovic again is earned, and the Serbian economy already in charge of foreign exchange loans now has a much bigger war than it was before the start of the transaction. Why did I bring all this up? This is just one obvious example, one of the reasons why so much pressure is being put on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, and even the coalition brought together by the SNS because big money and large money were being made during a previous period. We also had this Competition Protection Commission, and here I am glad that there is also a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, which in 2007 brought the solution not to approve of the acquisition of the "C Market" by Delta Company. The solution was delivered, and the solution was brought by Delta to the Administrative Court. I don't know if it was resolved in some period after the appeal, but I do know that the complaint was not resolved until Delta sold the "C Market" "Deleza". To explain what autocracy is and what a banana state is, this is an excellent example. One great example. I said she bought the C Market for 44m euros. It sold in cash for 932m euros and a new debt of 300m euros. It means that it has been sold more or less for about a billion and 232m euros, that the profit that Delta has earned 888m and 500,000 euros, and the possible gain of a billion 188m and 500 000 euros. So, look – Miskovic only earned over a billion euros on one transaction. You know how? By having his minister in the government who wrote him two laws. The law on trade, where other trading formats are prevented from entering the Serbian market, such as "Ikea" or "Lidl". They just couldn't get into the market. A reason? To get the property that Delta sells as high as possible. Let's say, but "Delta" is our company, so why don't we protect our domestic company's interests, pay the stranger, that money stays here. It's not like that. Another law was written, a foreign exchange law that allowed all the money Miskovic received for sale, "Maxia", to be removed from the country until the last euro. Tell me, if one man controls the National Bank by affecting its reference interest rate or exchange rate of dinar, if one man controls the Government of the Republic of Serbia which proposes to the National Assembly of Laws, if one man controls the National Assembly that makes the laws that he requires, if one man controls the holders of judicial functions because for four years, the Administrative Court has not acted on Miskovic's appeal and does not confirm the correctness of the solutions made by the Competition Commission, it is a banana state. That's what we had until 2012. One man determined everything, and that's why he's such a hack for today's president, Alexander Vukic. Again, he wants one or two to determine everything, not to have any legitimacy, but to have a political impact on certain politicians and to achieve their economic goals at the expense of the state and citizens. I really don't know if there is another Serbian-sized country with approximately the same population, with approximately the same product, a gross product, in which only one transaction can make more than a billion euros? The price we paid, the price we paid was 600,000 lost jobs because employers could no longer support the financing of Delta, or the financing of the banking sector, or the high interest rates, so they closed their businesses or, as was the case with "Jues Style", fled Serbia with their heads regardless. That's the kind of Serbia we had. Now they're talking about some kind of autocracy. Now they say Serbia is not a democratic country. Now I'm gonna say, is that gonna be taken seriously or not, but let's just say what's wrong with this Rio Tint story? What is their problem, they brought Rio Tinto to Serbia? You want me to tell you? The problem is they won't ask for money, they're not in a position to ask for money to get permits. They don't care about the Adriatic Valley. They don't care about those citizens out there. They don't care about environmental protection, environmental science. They regret not being able to blackmail Rio Tinto and say it - the license costs 100m, 200m euros. They're sorry. Nothing else. Imagine the situation that the Minister for Environmental Protection, or brother of one minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was then some action to make secondary raw materials, secondary waste that could pollute the environment subject to subsidisation of the state, i.e. the state pays those who buy it and process it. Now, you can imagine that the brother of one of the ministers imported the batteries from Hungary, represented the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Environmental Protection Fund as the batteries he bought in Serbia and exercised his right to grant. That, they know from Vojvodina, is the brother of this Oliver Dulic. Now, can one of them tell me that they care about the environment and environmental science in the Republic of Serbia? That's what they were worried about when they were in power. That when that actor, the artist, the debtor Gilasov, who got two million dinars, went there, brought his colleagues who suddenly looked like the Serb field, doing it to say again -- hey, people, Rio Tinto stays in Serbia, only the work permit costs 200m euros that you will pay me to 60 exotic situations around the world, and for Serbian citizens, it doesn't matter, let them move around the white world, it's important for me to be okay. Now, just for a few examples, I have shown why such a heifer is led to the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, his family and the party he leads. The reason is purely economic, exclusively for the wealth of individuals who did so while they were in power. I will always be able to speak, to speak, to remind the citizens of Serbia what thieves were when they exercised power, how expensively we as citizens paid for their power, that more such bastards and such thieves never lead Serbia again and are not in a position to rob Serbian citizens. Every time a state authority sends them near the Firefighter, I will be happy to wait for them, I know that there will be at least 10, 12, maybe 15 years, and we will take care of their pavilion accommodations to comply with the highest European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11889	I would like to thank the motionary's representative. Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? Djordje Dabic, a member of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11890	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pantic, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, supported all proposals for candidates on the agenda today, and if the National Assembly chooses them in the voting day, I wish them all the happiness in performing these important and responsible functions for the state. Judges who get legitimacy in this way have, therefore, full legitimacy to stand behind a verdict that stands in the name of the people, because the National Assembly elects them through legitimately elected representatives. Thus, the people directly accomplish its role, which was prescribed 200 years ago, we know by principle that they have divided the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial. We have, the end of the year is very close, in three weeks, citizens will have the opportunity to vote in a referendum and say what they think about everything that will be the subject of these constitutional changes. Whether we keep choosing judges the way we've been before, or if we change that, the people will say theirs. After that decision, this power will certainly stand. Whatever people decide at the referendum is sacred to us, because today the people are asking themselves in Serbia and no one on the side can dictate and influence those decisions that our country is making. Everything we decide, I say once again, we will always put on a referendum, when it comes to such important issues, and we will always stand behind that people's decision. We all know that our country is in the EU accession process. So, therefore, the need to change, that is, the condition, how to say, in the approach to European integration to change exactly what we are talking about the way the judge chooses, is still in place from 2013 when we adopted an action plan that has been on the agenda for all these years. We've had a lot of public hearings over the past year, debates on this subject. This is a topic that did not come here overnight before the MPs and that will come to a referendum in front of the citizens, we have had a broad public debate, an inclusive debate where all the layers were included, above all legal professions that had the opportunity to give their opinions. We've come up with one solution that's best at the moment. We have certainly managed to maintain, however, the indirect link between the National Assembly and the High Council of the judiciary, through the possibility that the National Assembly should delegate four out of eleven, as we say, prominent lawyers who again say is another condition, says, there will be no members of the political parties, and that is the condition we agreed to. All that we have succeeded in these talks with the EU and the Venice Commission will be in front of citizens in a referendum and they will come forward. As the citizens say, so it will be, and it should be clear to the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe and the EU because, once again, this government will do nothing to the harm of our citizens and all that they have voted for in the referendum will be sacred to us. It's much more interesting how he behaves today. The pro-European opposition. Following these days of silence, various experts from "do not strangle Belgrade", Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic and others, who are declaring themselves to join the EU, and when this comes to the agenda, they say - we will be against this. So they definitely don't have their own policy, we know that long ago, but it's amazing that you're taking the stand for strengthening the independence of the judiciary, and when there comes a solution that's giving a huge, how can I say, impulse to this very process of strengthening the independence of the judiciary, they say -- we're against it. It's really amazing, but it's obviously their manner of showing that wherever they think they can take some blow to SNS and to Alexander Vukic, they're going to try every way to do it, even though I absolutely don't see a way to put any political blow on us here. If the referendum fails, it will be because citizens have not supported these constitutional changes, and some of our members themselves are publicly pushing for not to pass the referendum. We have seen, in our party you have complete freedom to talk about it publicly, some are in favour, some are against it. I don't see any way that if the referendum was a failure, it could be recorded as some kind of SNS failure. The chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic, on the other night in Serbia's most watched show, said he would be attending a referendum and would be against these constitutional changes. It's a perfectly normal thing. In our party, we cultivate this spirit of democracy and, of course, we will not sanction anyone for free opinion. What's important is that the SNS, once again, will support everything that the people have voted for in the referendum. Since we came to power nine years ago, we have inherited this tradition of fostering the sovereignty of our country. All that hasn't been done in the past nine years, or before 2012, we've broken up with this, a bad, devastating continuity of listening to foreign decrees. We came to power on a wave of national will. The people wanted the SNS in power, we broke up the one, how can I say, the one vassal relationship we had with everyone on the side. Today we respect, above all, our man, our country, our people who and how he has the right to express his opinion. In the last nine years, in all the elections, we have defeated more convincing and convincingly precisely because we have managed our national interests, above all our country, and have not listened to any dictatorship. I say it one more time, that's how we're gonna do it this time. I call on the citizens to make a referendum on 16 January, to think carefully about what is the interest of our country, what is the general interest of all our people here who live, who want to stay and build our country. As the citizens say, so it will be, and we will certainly respect that decision. Once again, we will support all proposals that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11891	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party, deputy president Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11892	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Mr Pantic, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, the Justice and Trust Party, the United Peasant Party, the parliamentary club that we are making will support the proposals of these laws, we will also support the proposals of these candidates who are elected judges. I think it's another good thing. I have spoken before, and I will now say again that I, as an MP who comes from Svrlig, and Svrljig is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is next to the city of Nis, and Nis is the most beautiful city in Serbia, from there comes Mr Pantic, the man who has great knowledge, has a great experience, and the man who, by his authority when he says things, I believe it, and I am sure, and it has proved to be back when he's been here, back a few years since he's been a member of the High Council of the judiciary, there's always been people who are very high-quality representatives, whether the judges are prosecutors, it's important that they are quality people who do their jobs and who make decisions, the laws and make all that matter in the name of the people. I'm referring here specifically to the verdicts. Once again, all the necessary things to talk about today, my colleague Arsic spoke about the selection of members related to competition, i.e. people who will work tomorrow to protect some monopoly, where he talked about how a particular company was privatised, I can say that I was back in the period, perhaps seven, eight or ten years, where there were more privatisations that were at the expense of citizens, to the harm of people living in Svrlig, Nis, in southeast Serbia, where it was done the worst way, but the bottom line of all is that there are no results, because there are no such jobs that would remain there to work. In particular, I was also talking about the privatisation of the Low Milky Way, which got consent, and I think that's something that really hit that part of Serbia. The problem with the sale of Niška mlekar was also dairy workers in Srlig, where they had close to 50 workers and workers in Nis had lost their jobs or moved to do other jobs. Now there's a big problem where we can place our milk that's really very good and very good, there's only one in that part of our Serbia, in southeast Serbia, where our cows, our sheep, feed that healing plant, and that's why it's very high-quality. Once again, if I don't owe, distinguished colleagues, we're going to support all these suggestions as a Parliament club. Once again, thank you. Mr Pantic, you are doing your job in the best way and you are very supportive of continuing in the coming period. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11893	I would like to thank the deputy president of the Parliament Group. The word has the mandated representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11894	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Pantic, colleagues and colleagues, as far as the first point we're talking about today is concerned, I guess this is one of the last, if not the last time we're going to decide on judges who are first elected to office. I've talked about this subject quite often in this term. Repeat, however, only once again that a subpoena should be considered exclusively as a privilege of a small number of legal profession members to whom the company has given trust and authority to decide on the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens. That's why I'm not going to deal with this so much. I will wish them good luck in their work by our parliamentary group. I hope they will judge by their conscience, in accordance with their skill and honesty, respecting the legal and judicial profession. In preparing for this discussion, when it comes to the Competition Protection Commission, it is impossible to ignore, or not look back and analyse and create, but also the establishment and legal framework, as well as all those other segments that make up the postulates of the Commission's work today. We recently adopted the Annual Report on the Commission's work on the Protection of Competition for 2020, which shows that, despite the difficult working conditions of the Covid 19 pandemic, the Commission ended with improved measurable labour performance indicators in almost all activities in the area of competition protection in the Republic of Serbia's market. I want to say that competition policy and competition rights are two completely dependent, but also separate elements, so competition policy as a broader concept of coverage and rules and mechanisms of the functioning of institutions, in order to ensure the protection of competition on the market and that is what I want to talk about today. It is undeniable that the implementation of competition policy ensures an improvement in the economic efficiency of market participants, as well as optimal use of resources, which again has economic growth and productivity. The tendering of the market generally affects the formation of lower prices, better quality and more diverse goods and services, as well as the increase in production, i.e. the creation of sustainable jobs. In this respect, there is no need to leave out that functional competition is what constitutes a guarantee of successful European integration. I mean not only the fulfillment of formal conditions, but also the successful functioning of Serbia as a future member state. Speaking of the European Union, we must be aware that competition policy is important for our country for the simple reason that they are also politics, but also the right of Serbia's competition is fully dependent and related to the policy and right of competition of the European Union. It is our obligation to comply with our laws under European Union law, including the full complementarity of the system itself, because it is prescribed by Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements as a special obligation for our country. Serbia can boast that to date this task is largely and fulfilled, but we remain open to the application of the current rules. It is commendable, for example, that the legislative framework for protecting competition in Serbia is good, and key institutions for implementing competition protection policies are established and fully doing their job. However, underdeveloped capacity to carry out operations under the jurisdiction of the competition institution conditions a restriction on the application of these rules and in practice. In addition, the fact mentioned in the report we adopted recently, from 2020, which states that the Commission has 53 employees and that as such, there are as many as 20 to 40 % less employees in the region than the countries in the region. We therefore have a legislative framework which is defined, consistent and high-level in line with the relevant law of the European Union, but in addition to competition and concentration in the area of state aid, a basic legislative framework has also been established, including the existence of the Commission for State Aid Control. So we have all the preconditions that are necessary as the basis for establishing a good system of competition protection, and we are left with this system to implement. In that sense, it is also important to identify the obstacles that stand in our way to solve them, so I think of the existence of a question of material and procedural character that we must improve in the context of negotiating chapter 8. In addition, it is important to specify existing standards, as existing ones require a high degree of expertise when applied, and our environment requires that all standards be clear and accurate so that they can be understood more easily. Furthermore, it is necessary to improve the organisational and professional capacity of the Commission, which I spoke about earlier, in relation to the needs and scope of the work that the Commission has. Then, consumer organisations very rarely present in this matter and no significant co-operation with the Commission itself has been recorded. There is also the impression that the business community is to a certain extent, although insufficiently familiar with competition protection rules, but at the same time has high expectations from the Commission itself, both in terms of the development of competition policy and in terms of improving law enforcement practices. Furthermore, activities on the plan to promote the importance of competition protection policy are, in my personal opinion, less rare than it should be. They must be continued to raise awareness of the importance of protecting competition. Finally, the Commission is transparent in its work, but perhaps explanations could be more comprehensive, but also more comprehensive, in order to encourage public opinion on thinking. As regards the scope of the proceedings, it is necessary to improve the capacity of the court, in particular through the specialisation of competition protection cases in the administrative court, as well as the training of the judges of the administrative court. Then, consider the possibility of establishing a special organisational continent, for example, perhaps a specialised judicial council. In any case, the Competition Protection Commission is a key institution in this area, and it carries out its basic supervisory function in the procedures it initiates and implements. Its legal position is in line with the requirements for the existence of an operational independent body that controls compliance with competition rules on the Serbian market and, in that sense, let's say a recommendation to the Commission, it may not be bad to carry out comprehensive sectoral analysis on the market, which is considered particularly vulnerable to the risk of distortion of competition. All this points to the conclusion that we need to view competition protection policy as an essential assumption to encourage the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In the long term, there is no greater incentive for them than strong competition that stimulates them to improve all aspects of their business in order to recognise consumer needs, and in order for global competition to even survive domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to achieve an adequate level of competitiveness. This will be achieved by association in clusters, but also through numerous types of subsidies from the state. Through association with clusters, these companies practically imitate the work of large enterprises, retaining on the other hand their legal and business independence, and also becoming competitive and becoming, among other things, co-workers of these large enterprises. More than 25 clusters have been established in Serbia so far, and if we look at the non-financial sector, small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia are participating with 99% in the total number of enterprises. So in the Nisavsky County, where I come from, we have almost 14,000 companies of which 74% are large and only 22% small enterprises. That is why we must not ignore that, as in most European countries and Serbia, small and medium-sized enterprises represent a significant source of and employment, but on the other hand productivity and employs as many as two-thirds of the total number of non-financial workers in Serbia's economy. The Commission's competition protection practice so far shows that there is often a distortion of competition due to ignorance or due to insufficient guidance from market participants and on this basis the need for market participants to raise the level of awareness of the need, but also ways to comply with the rules in the field of competition protection, in order to assist market participants in this process of compliance with the rules on competition, the Commission has adopted guidelines in which, in short lines, it provides a description and clarification of certain steps to be taken in the adoption of such programmes. Finally, the aim of all these guidelines is for market participants to focus both large and small and medium-sized enterprises when drawing up these internal acts and regulations to ensure that their operations comply with the applicable regulations. It is very important to point out that strong competition on the domestic market is of paramount importance, as Serbia's accession to the European Union, as well as to the world trade organisation, will significantly reduce or completely disable opportunities for the protection of the domestic market, so that domestic companies will literally compete, not only with other domestic enterprises, but also with businesses from the region and other industrial developed countries. As a parliamentary group in the voting day, we will support these proposals in the hope that all these measures will be recognised as a potential solution to all those problems that exist in the competition market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11895	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Tom Fila.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11896	Dear Vice President, Honorable Judge Pantic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in my life I have been publicly or in front of myself always representing that I do not give in to anyone when it comes to justice. These words were spoken by the wise Socrates, and they are very close to me, and this is how I begin my address in this distinguished home. So we're talking about justice, more specifically about the holders of judicial functions that need to share justice, whose justice must be a guideline in all judgments, which will be passed and which must be chosen also by justice. The question arises, is the choice of judges made in accordance with these principles? Namely, the list of judges we choose in this session does not contain any of the additions I have proposed during the previous election of judges and I am not the only one who suggested it. So we don't have data on the length of the study, we don't have data on the average rating in the studies and particularly important, about candidates who are not accepted, the name, the name and reasons for not accepting to have a more critical approach to all of this. The explanation that these data were not found in this proposal by the Supreme Council of the judiciary is visible, waiting on January 16th and the hope of the Supreme Council in the referendum's success. My position on this subject has been unchangeable and repeatedly repeated. I'm against the first election of judges outside the assembly. When we talk about their careers, it is natural that they are further cared for by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, without any influence from the Assembly, and the High Council of the Judiciary must act exclusively as judges. So, first election of the Assembly, further High Council of the Judiciary. That's my attitude. The explanation of this attitude you've heard many times, there's no need to repeat it. However, I need to give you another argument, the argument is called nepotism. The first election will be decided by 11 too powerful people, including four outstanding lawyers elected by the Assembly. I'd like someone to define a term for me - an exceptional lawyer. I don't know, as Socrates said, I know I don't know anything, but the Venice Commission probably knows. So, the High Council of the Judiciary elects judges. There is an area that is very well known to us in Serbia, so it is part of the local folklore. Children of university professors become professors, children of doctors, become doctors, children of actors, actors, children of judges, judges. I'm afraid 11 people will find it hard to resist the pressure not to. In other words, don't succumb to nepotism that wasn't possible when 250 people in this room decided. So 250 people of different political options decided. Now let me say something orally. In today's policy, one Constitutional Court judge resented the Assembly by saying that it is better for 11 lawyers to choose than 250 MPs who are not lawyers. Well, there are over 11 lawyers, only in my group there are four lawyers, not to mention how many of you there are. What kind of argument is that? Not at all. There is a space that is very well known to us in Serbia, so-called It's part of the home folklore. I'm afraid people are going to have a hard time resisting pressure today. What I was talking about goes back in time, because the majority of the vote's parliament decided to hold a referendum on the amendment to the Constitution, the date is January 13th, so to speak tomorrow. I admit that I expected a lot more enthusiasm in and out of this assembly about the referendum, that's what I'm talking about. I am sure that I am not wrong when I say that the main promoter is Parliament Speaker and SPS President Ivica Dacic, in all the media at press conferences, in interviews invites citizens to go to the referendum and vote – yes. This tenacity and consistency in the animation of the public and in the inappropriate repetition that it is only in the area of justice that I have not noticed in others. It is very important that the majority of citizens go to the referendum and thus show that they understand that the change in the Constitution is extremely important for Serbia, if few people come out, then it is a defeat for all of us. Of course, everyone will vote for their conscience. It's important to go out and vote. How are any of us gonna vote, you know how I'm gonna vote? Finally, I ask all MPs to influence their voters with their authority to come out and vote as much as possible, thus showing that this referendum is important for Serbian citizens. In voting day, the SPS will support the choice of these candidates for judges, because we know nothing bad about them and why they wouldn't accept it that way, and they didn't give us the information we asked for and that I was after all. You'll let me just say one more thing, if that Venice Commission was made up of judges wouldn't react that way, they're professors of law school, you know, when teachers face the judiciary, so you have in Kragujevac, they face both prisons and the court, when they're caught taking bribes and abusing students, then they meet with it. Well, what in their country didn't they do? Well, we have a Montenegrin example that it's a terrible thing to do with them, because they've also succumbed to this story, and I'm still at it. I believe that 250 of us will know better than 11 people who, among other things, are adornment and nepotism, because we saw it with university professors in everyone else. It's not good, and that's why I'm going to vote on how I'm going to vote, and we from the SPS are going to support the choice of these judges, because I have no reason not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11897	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11898	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr Pantic, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at first I will only use it to rely on the presentation of my esteemed colleague, Mr File, where I would not agree that only the president of the National Assembly was going to go public, spoke about the referendum in the upcoming referendum, which will take place on January 16th, but also was discussed by SNS MPs, also spoke of by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and that was also spoken of by President Aleksandar Vukic. I understand your need to talk about your party president and president of the National Assembly coming out of the media and calling, but certainly, we must say that there are senior SNS officials coming out to talk about the referendum. What I also wanted to build on is that we are on our way to the EU, the path to full EU membership and what we need to do, is to bring our legislation in line with European legislation, to take good solutions, that those solutions that are not good at talking about them, to talk about them in Parliament and other competent institutions, but indeed, it is good that we have started with the process of changing the Constitution that applies to part of the judiciary, which is confirmed in the European Commission's report for this year, in which it is clearly said that Serbia has made good progress in the field of justice and certainly, this process when we talk about changing the Constitution has led to today's opening of Cluster 4, that we can prepare for opening Cluster 3 and continue European integration, because on that path to European integration and towards full EU membership for nine years. When we talk about the agenda, we are facing today's proposals for a decision on the selection of judicial officials, who are elected for the first time, as well as a list of candidates for a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. When we talk about a list of candidates for a member of the Competition Protection Council, we should say that the president and four members of the board are elected and resolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent Committee on Trade Affairs. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development of Tourism and Energy, held on 15 November and 6 December, held talks with public competition participants and found that six proposals were submitted. After setting out the conditions, file and talks, with all the candidates reported, the responsible Trade, Regional Development and Energy Resolution Board has sent a designated list to the National Assembly, proposing that Radojić Cedomir, a member of the Competition Protection Council, who will perform this function in the next five years, and the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vucic – To our children, will support this proposal in the day of voting. As I said, we also have before us a proposal for a decision on the selection of legal holders who are elected for the first time, which you, Mr Pantic, or VSS, have referred to the National Assembly for a decision. And today we are talking about candidates proposed for the VSS proposal for basic and economic courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I must stress, as earlier times, that I am pleased to talk about candidates, who, if this House of the People's Assembly confirms their choice, will talk about the holders of judicial functions, who by their knowledge, and by their expertise, that our judicial system will be better, that it will be more up-to-date and that it will also contribute to the confidence in our judiciary remains extremely high, as has been the case since 2012. You have conducted this procedure, Mr Pantic, as VSS, your colleagues and you have carried out in accordance with the VSS Act, and in accordance with the Law on Judges, you have found that the proposed candidates fulfil all subjective and objective, that their dignity, expertise and training are established, and I am extremely pleased that these candidates will perform an extremely responsible function in the future, as is the holder of the judicial function. What is certainly important to say is that judges must possess high moral and professional qualities, because they decide, by their actions, by their judicial decisions, on someone's rights in litigation, out-of-party proceedings, but also on freedom, in criminal proceedings. What is important is that they protect fully the legal order of the Republic of Serbia by their actions and their decisions. From the proposed decisions, we can see that there are future judges who have completed the Faculty of Law and who have passed the judicial exam, and some of them are members of the judicial academy, and some of them have done the jobs of professional associates during their careers, which is a good and clear signal that work and effort are paid and that someone recognizes it as VSS and that after a certain number of years they can be proposed to the holders of judicial functions. What is certainly important to say is that the judiciary is a pillar of a regulated and democratic state. But we had a problem connecting the concept of politics with the area of justice in 2009 and 2010 where, on the one hand, we put that term of democracy in the bracket. Why? Because, remember, all of us, when we adopted the new Constitution in 2006 we faced certain comments from the Venice Commission that we had to correct certain parts of the Constitution relating to the area of the judiciary in order not to create an opportunity for the influence of executive and legislative authorities in the election of both prosecutors and judges. So, what happened? In 2009 and 2010, which we have been talking about here for a year and which our colleagues have spoken about in previous meetings is not a coincidence, we cannot handle this by chance, it is only the result of bad decisions, bad political and bad professional decisions that existed from 2006 to 2009. We are not responsible for this, but are responsible for those who sat in the then Democratic Party, who wanted the third branch of power, the judicial authority, to bring under direct political influence, the people who sat in the Democratic Party's summit at the time. Today we are talking about a referendum. This is an extremely important issue, not only for us MPs, not just for you representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, it is a matter of major importance for the Republic of Serbia. We must make a complete distinction compared to 2009 and 2010, when faced with obvious political pressures on our judicial system. This justice system we managed, in a way, to relativize, in such a way as not to let things that happened to us ever happen to us in 2009. That is why we started just over a year ago, or the National Assembly as the most legislative body adopted an act on the start of a process relating to the change of the Constitution. For this period of one year, we have made it possible for all relevant factors to participate in the serious process, and the Government as an authorised proposing, and the National Assembly as the most legislative body, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, but also many other associations and representatives of the civil and non-civil sector, who, by their comments and their opinions, have contributed to making this process responsible and serious. For the past year, we have certainly faced certain different conflicting opinions that come to us most from the representatives of individual opposition states and from those representatives of the former tycoon regime, but also from certain people and the professional public where the dilemma is created which is the subject of the change of the Constitution. If we had to make a change to the Constitution, it would first and foremost define issues related to the choice of the judge-holders who are elected for the first time, the composition of the VSS and the DVT on issues relating to the removal of the trial mandate of three years, but other issues of importance to the Serbian judiciary. Now I ask a question from this place – why do some representatives of opposition parties say these changes are bad? These changes are not bad at all because we will completely remove these things from the choice of judges in the VSS, in the DVT, and thus completely eliminate the possible influence of the legislative executive authority on the choice of judges and prosecutors. But you have representatives of the opposition parties who have not qualified, who today are struggling to enter this parliament and who have not read a single document relating to the amendment of the Constitution. The most appropriate thing would be if such changes did not take place, although they advocated such changes in previous assembly council meetings, although during their rule for a little over 10 years they said they all advocated the path to the EU, and full membership to the EU, and did not open any chapters, they did not open a single cluster, but they advocated that the judicial system be subject to their direct political influence. You know for yourself, Mr Pantic, how the entire reform of the judiciary took place. From the first summons of the High Council of the Judiciary, which was eventually formed, to the second council of the High Council of the Judiciary who wanted to wash the stains of the first convocation, to the fact that when the Constitutional Court was able to get out of the Democratic Party's clutch, it decided that people should return to work and exercise their law-guaranteed right. You have representatives of opposition parties, Marinika Tepic, who spoke on the show yesterday about how disastrous the judiciary is. Also, you have Verica Barac, who said in 2010, that all the controversial privatisations that took place in their time, where millions were placed in the pocket of senior officials of the Democratic Party is nothing compared to the reform of the judiciary that took place. You have Miroslav Aleksic, who today presents himself as a great knows-how of the judiciary and the judicial system that is struggling to enter this National Assembly, who can't hit a fall when he talks about prosecutors, or he calls the State's Major Prosecutor's Office. It's nothing strange to me, considering when you see his degree where a Serbian-language man has a two. Now I ask – do such people need to fight for the independence of judge and prosecutorial functions? Do these people need to talk about these candidates who finished law school, passed a judicial exam? I'd like to mention both those and the representatives of the right-wing people for the past month. You have Boško Obradovic who throws out pamphlets every day and says – we call on citizens to vote "no" in the referendum, because it will give the opportunity to change preambles, giving the possibility of "Rio Tintu" staying in Serbia. Well, no. I don't know how Mr. Bosko Obradovic imagines that by running a flat-rate policy, he creates trust with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to support him into this parliament. We have repeatedly said that this process was very open and inclusive, although it is slow for us and Mr Majic, although it is slow for us by Gajic from the People's Party, although it is slow for us by Alexic, but it is very clear to me that these people are not following anything about the topic of the referendum. We all know there were eight public hearings. At those hearings were also representatives of the CEPRIS association of Majic, where they gave specific concrete opinions. At these sessions were Vida Petrovic Shkero who spoke for this speaker here. At these sessions were representatives of extraparliamentary parties, enough was the Serbian Radical Party, the People's Party and others. Everything we do in the National Assembly you say that we are working against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why, then, in 2011, was the European Commission report that they had made progress in the judiciary, but everyone in Europe was baptized for what they had done with the judiciary and the prosecution at the time. We have 44m euros left to pay to the judges and prosecutors, we have three million pending cases, we have a completely destroyed judicial, or judicial network. In the territory of a city of five municipal courts that had their own litigation and criminal departments, you managed to create a court that was completely devastated, where people, i.e. judges and judicial associates, went and ran the cases in the halls of the courts at the time. They didn't do anything about the infrastructure. Why don't we talk about improving judicial infrastructure while the Serbian Progressive Party is in power? When we talk about the Serbian Progressive Party, there is a big difference because, while we are in power, we will not go to court decisions, we will not invite judges and prosecutors to tell them how to decide in a particular case, we will not go to courts and prosecutors to drink coffee with judges and prosecutors and tell them – you know, this is our political opponent, you have to accuse him of being disciplined. No, that's not what we're going to do, but we're going to give all the important questions regarding the judiciary to the citizens to decide at the referendum. It's democratic. It is not democratic for you to implement the reform because in the biographies of certain ministers and senior officials of the Democratic Party it should say they are reformers. How many reformers, it tells us that on the matter of healthcare we were the last in Europe, that they had closed 500,000 jobs, that they had closed over 200 factories, that 1,500 people had been forced into the streets by judges and prosecutors, but we are working in accordance with democratic principles. We will work on improving the judicial infrastructure, we have restored the Court of Justice, we have restored the Court of Justice in Katanić, we are doing the General Court building in Kragujevac and Kralje, we are working on renovations and prisons, we are working on renovating certain facilities that are for the purposes of prosecutors, or judicial associates, and we are doing everything on this, we are doing all things to make our judiciary much more up-to-date. I am really saddened by one thing, that people who have destroyed the Serbian judiciary today talk about having more support than the Serbian Progressive Party, how one Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and others who are in the "Multi-Coalition", who are called on to go to the upcoming elections, have more popularity, and then when you show them this chart, which clearly states that the elections took place last week, the list "Alexandar Vukic" would support 57% of the citizens. One of the reasons why we have this kind of support in the people today is because when we talk about the subject of justice we haven't hit the area of justice, we haven't touched the independence of judges and prosecutors. We didn't want to do any judicial reform. When you are told that this is an introduction to a new reform of the judiciary, know, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they lie to you directly because in the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution itself, it says that there will be no judicial reform and that they will all perform their judicial functions until the vote itself, that is, in the coming period. Those who today struggle to enter this parliament and who base their policies on lies, deceptions, intimidations, dehumanisation, decriminalisation of anyone from the SNS if they say otherwise which is not in line with their tycoon views, you face deceptions and lies, but you should understand that one of the reasons why the people drove you away from power in 2012 and why they supported the Serbian Progressive Party was judicial reform. You must never enter anyone's Constitution and the law guaranteeing the right. You can't send any judge out on the street like you did, you can only retire him or you can get rid of him in accordance with the rules laid down. I would ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and when we talk about the referendum and when we talk about Alexander Vukic's policy to think very carefully, to look at all the results we have achieved in the past nine years, to look at the things we plan to do in the coming years, to look at the "Serbia 2025" Plan, and not to fall under the lies and delusions of those who led Serbia to 2012, and they led us to a direct ambition. There are little less than three months left until the presidential, parliamentary and local elections are held, and it is therefore important that we all go to the upcoming elections together, to support the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and the policy of Aleksandr Vukic, because this shows that we will not and do not want to withdraw from the worst, and these are the worst ones that led us to a complete ambition in 2012. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11899	Right on the line, Tom Phil.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11900	My colleague, Kesar, whom I usually respect, and we're on the same boards all the time, obviously he didn't understand me very well. I didn't say there was no response to the referendum. I resented it, and now I don't think there's enough enthusiasm. At the time of the Roman Empire, there was a Katon Censor who started every speech and ended with the words: “I think that Carthage should be destroyed. ” As you know, you're lawyers, you both know about it. So, I'm asking you to appreciate Elena's work, because I've been on the board as much as you do, but Elena's work is great. What I'm trying to say is that we all need to have as many people animated to go to the polls as possible, and I don't deny that that's what President Vukic said to the Prime Minister, etc. We have to keep on every TV, every interview we have to say, because if there's a poor turnout, we're miserable. Believe me, that's how I feel. I'm sorry, Cesar, for answering your question. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11901	I thank the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. If no one ever hears from you again, we're going to go over to the list of people that are registered for a word. The first to be reported is MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11902	Thank you. Dear Vice President Orlic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Pantic, I am pleased to meet you again, and I would like to commend your enthusiasm and your presence here. As for the subject of the election of judges, I think that in the last few sessions we have really dealt with these topics in detail, and what I want to point out today is more or less what I have been saying so far, we will absolutely support the choice of new judges, because there is no effective fight against crime and corruption without enough judges, without enough prosecutors, because it is simply mechanisms to fight crime and corruption. I'm going to remind you of those statistics that I've spoken here many times in my prime. If we have hundreds or even thousands of procedures that a judge needs to solve, then we cannot talk about an effective justice system. It is clear that we, both as the Assembly and the Ministry and other bodies, including the High Council of the judiciary, are simply facing this problem and, among other things, this point of the agenda is that we try to solve this problem by choosing new judges. What I want to point out is also to appeal to you to reconsider the demands of the Bakan family, Scarep and Mavric. I was talking about this case of Ernad Bakan who was injured at a pedestrian crossing in Zemun. We had a court hearing the other day that was postponed. So it is absolutely unacceptable that from day to day, from hearing to hearing for almost a year or two years the procedure is delayed and then the space of one of the Pandora's boxes is opened that this is being misused for political purposes. I really don't want to, and I totally feel for the pain of these three families and I urge you to really see what this is all about, that a really more effective court is acting in this case and that we have simple judgments. Those people who are guilty should respond, and in these two other cases, see if there is room, if there are any abuses, as families themselves point out. What I particularly want to point out is as a member of the Bosniak people and as a member of minority communities in the Republic of Serbia that, according to the latest list, we have one third of the citizens and citizens who have declared themselves to be members of minority communities and that is something that you and your institution must make sure that we have the percentage representation of the Bosniak people, but also other minority communities, and when it comes to judges and prosecutors. We've pointed out several times that nationality can't be a map. The expertise is a map primarily, but we must also work when it comes to the Judicial Academy and when the choice is that we simply and representatives of minority communities are fully represented, because it is then a fundamental turn of the second list and a complete return of the trust of minority communities in the system institutions, because as soon as you have 70%, the examples work, or 80% of Bosniaks in Novi Pazar citizens, and you do not have so many in state institutions, in the judiciary, in the police, it is something that is not good, and that is something that we have to change, as regards the List of Candidates for the Board of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, a very important institution. It's something that is absolutely democratic fluid and something that we must never again allow a certain company in any branch to establish some kind of monopoly. We just have to have a healthy competition. Healthy competition guarantees quality. Healthy competition guarantees the best service and best price for citizens and citizens, which is something that we all aim at. In voting day, we'll support the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11903	Thank you. Next on the list is MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11904	First of all, I would like to extend my condolences to our colleague Branko Marinkovic's family. This issue of elections is in the shadows and cannot be out of shadow of the story of the referendum, because in the referendum of 16 January next year, it will decide whether we will have the opportunity as representatives of the people in the coming period to fulfill this fullness of national sovereignty and to control and influence the judicial authority or to allow it to be completely isolated and become what some SNS colleagues have said nicely – Sudocracy. This model, which will be proposed in the referendum, is a model that threatens the idea of division and balance of power, because division and balance of government can exist only in case there is an interaction of one authority on another, i.e. all three authorities, legislative, executive and judicial. When one government is isolated, then it loses its ability to be controlled by what is most important, and that is national sovereignty. The proposed changes to the Constitution lead to this, and it is clear that 250 MPs, whatever they may be at this point, may be more like the SNS's main board, but next time they may be elected to be more representatives of the opposition and to make the Assembly more colorful and then, however you set up these representatives of the people, as the national tribunals, may have more influence and more serious debate over judges than a very small and narrow circle of people. Whether they were state officials or prominent lawyers their ability to control and influence as president of the People's Sovereign, the people as sovereign are completely limited. I'm talking about what my colleague Dabic said. I also believe that the failure of the referendum cannot be and should not be seen as a defeat of the SNS, because among you there are people who openly represent the same attitude as I do - that a referendum should be held and voted against constitutional changes. Col. Djordje Dabić basically said something that I agree with, and I think this theme of changing the Constitution is much bigger and further than all of our party and other ideas. I also agree with what a respected colleague of Tom Phil, an exceptional lawyer in the experience and quality of his work, said, and it is that we all forget that the judiciary is not made up of people who are saints, that there are a lot of corruption and gods and nepotism, and there will be even more when we isolate them in the way the members of the university are isolated, so now we have problems with them. So these are all problems that are opening up, and what's most important in all this is asking questions – why is it that we are going back to this vicious circle of denial of sovereignty for our people and for our country? Let's go back to the fact that these changes have even done something that is completely amazing, which is that in some way the prosecution is being established as the fourth branch of the government and that prosecutors who are in each regulated rule of law are part of the executive government to become power over themselves. That way they become something that one day, when the pressures from the West are stronger, that happens, which is that the prosecutors, who will be controlled by some of the NGOs from the West, Sorosa, USAID and similar, will persecute you for what you are and for what you are not guilty of. So it's not the first time. The whole idea being carried out here is an idea that the judge and theorist of law Robert Bork well described as a judicial dictatorship, which in the last 70 years in the United States has led people to vote for one thing in the referendum, and then the Supreme Court judges decide it's something else entirely. So in California, we had a referendum where citizens said gay marriage was unacceptable, and then the US Constitutional Court decided that the will of the people was not relevant. Secondly, the court dictatorship was used to deal with all the national representatives and the national tribunals of the government that was established in the Latin American states. So Lula said that Silva was arrested and prevented from participating in the election, although he had incredible support for the people, although in the end there turned out to be no reason why he was arrested, kicked out of the election match. So the authorities were changed in many Latin American countries, because their state's prosecutor's office was under the direct control of the U.S. intelligence structures. So all of us who belong to the People's Movement and the People's Attitude, who advocates sovereignty and sovereignty, and I know that there are many in your ranks, will one day be struck by such prosecutors and this kind of justice. That's why it's high time to stop this. This policy – the EU has no alternative for us to vote today for a resolution on the condemnation of crime, genocide in NDH, but I do not want to criticize people who have not voted because I know that the position of the Republic of Serbia is very difficult and that we have to take care of many things. I want to thank the colleagues who voted. Today, 44 colleagues voted in favour of the resolution, more than the last time. I want to say that the fact that as an opposition MP I can not vote is not a big sacrifice, but it is much more courageous than you that as people who respect party discipline you still vote for this resolution and show the strength of a national unity. I hope next time there will be more hands to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11905	We've got multiple reports in the system. The People's MP, Dejan Kesar, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11906	It seems that we are in one vicious circle that lasts for several months, which is that I, Mr. Glisic, have repeatedly repeated from this place that you obviously haven't read a single document relating to the very process of changing the Constitution. When you say that judges, that the choice of judges and prosecutors themselves will lead to the full delivery and the decision of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, is not true because the proposed changes will be defined and the term of the prominent lawyers elected here in the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority, and unless there is a consensus of the two-thirds majority on them will be decided by clearly defined constitutional categories, such as the President of the National Assembly, the Citizens' Protector, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, etc. So that's a complete lie. When you talk about the representatives of the former government and when you talk about the influence of foreign embassies, it would really be a shame to propagate those with whom you once sat in the same political organization, and they are going to foreign embassies, walking on the lawns of these foreign embassies, hiding in the halls, hiding when they come out of the embassy so that someone doesn't take pictures of them and see them going to cocktails with certain foreign ambassadors. I'm more upset with you from this place when you talk about NDH and when you talk about representatives of former authorities who did virtually everything by 2012 to Anathetize the Serbian people, when they apologized for all the things that Serbs did not do and when they did nothing to protect the Serb people in the countries of the former Yugoslavia but only allowed it to be seen before the marking of the Storm by our SPC of any magazine and to share it with the people, but to God not to see it. When you talk about the professor, it is again not true what you say because the professors of the Faculty of Law and other departments participated in the Working Group that defined constitutional amendments that will be decided by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's most notorious is the truth, and where I see a certain closeness between your views and these representatives of the former tycoon government, sitting here is an illegal, one-party assembly. I understand why you're saying this. Because you're not so often at the National Assembly sessions, but I don't want to get into the reasons why you're not here, and you're getting that monthly salary and you represent the interests of some citizens, but you can also see that there are representatives of the SNS and its coalition partners here, but also representatives of the SPS, representatives of the JS, etc. Come on, please, if you're doing your job seriously, and I think you can do serious politics because you've been on the political scene for a long time, let's talk on the basis of sound and fundamentally verified facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11907	Also, the line on the line has Djordje Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11908	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Glisic, you know for a fact that politics -- Europe has no alternative marked the previous times, and on the contrary today we can say that we are leading such a policy long ago we would have imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, so we would now have the gas of $2000 per cubicity and not 270, if we were guided by such a policy we would have long driven away Chinese investment as various, you know, people today representing this boycottal opposition and who would rather have Serbia defined permanently, as you say, for one purpose only, towards that EU. We here say critically we talk about the EU often, but we cannot not see that 2/3 of the trade balance we have right with the EU countries. You've confirmed that multiple times and that's something that's a fact. That's exactly why we're getting into all these changes, we have to. In 2013, we entered the process when the Action Plan was adopted. So it's about to create a legal framework that will be sufficient for Serbia to open Chapter 23 at the time, now it's in the second cluster, but that's why we find ways to keep one indirect way for the Assembly to really, with the High Council of Justice to play a certain role in the choice of judges. If the Venice Commission had asked itself, if we had listened to everything that came to us as requests from that side, we wouldn't have had that indirect moment when it came to us choosing prominent lawyers in the High Council of the Judiciary. I say again, no matter what, we have in our party an absolutely open debate today, you have people who will vote for and against. We'll talk about it in detail in the next period, 16 is close. I really hope that you realize that the greatest principle of democracy is that everyone has the right to express their position. I think that's something you should say. So here we can talk about, to listen to all the arguments, we had a big debate, you had representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition that participated in all this, you had, as counterpart Kesar said, and Majic with his association that gave criticism, where the criticisms were accepted. So today we have an open society, open debate, democracy in the right sense of that word, and that's something to be commended. I think it's really absolutely appropriate to say and to hear every argument, but that we'll definitely have a final decision in front of the people on 16 January and that's something that every citizen really needs to hear. It will not be decided in a closed circle, as was the case before, but the people in the referendum will have the opportunity to define what they stand for. And it will certainly be SNS, Alexander Vukic and, of course, our Government and our Assembly here absolutely respect everything that is agreed on, what the people say, it will be respected maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11909	Thank you. The next round of replicas will be final. I tell you in advance, and choose a dictionary accordingly. The word is Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11910	Mr Dabić, in most of what you've said, I agree, there's only one thing that's problematic, and that's that the difference between that power that there are some elements of sovereignty and there's a certain story that I hope will go that way. But what scares all of us on this sovereign side is the situation as with the introduction of sanctions to Belarus, because sanctions to Russia have not been imposed, but Belarus has. To the astonishment of an ambassador who expected it not to happen, but he had a conversation with the representatives of our government that it would not happen, and we succumbed to pressure and imposed sanctions on Belarus. It's also, given what Belarus has done for us at the time of the bombing and as she treated us, I'm sorry to say, a shameful act. We still somehow subdue our sovereignty to this policy, "The EU has no alternative", although I cannot help but notice that in some segments the current government is trying to get away with this pressure. On the other hand, when I'm transferred by another respected colleague to a pro-Brissian opposition that was once, as you say, a yellow government and a yellow regime, I don't know what you're saying? I'm from that organization you're talking about just because they went in the direction that led them to cooperate with these pro-Brist parties. As for the story of the people's sovereignty and control of the election of judges, you must admit that 250 MPs, especially in a situation where, God, next time there are more representatives of the opposition, are people who can shed light on one topic more than 11 people, as we now have, and especially when those 11 people are indirectly elected, and we, as MPs, are elected, so we just choose these indirect people, so that all of this, mathematically speaking, is not what you said. The other thing about it is that when we get into a situation that, and the next assembly will most likely be such that you don't have two-thirds of the parliament, then the commission you talked about will decide about the judges, which is only catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11911	Replica, Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11912	Whether the composition of the National Assembly will change, we cannot talk either, nor can we from the SNS, because it will be decided by citizens in the upcoming parliamentary, presidential and elections for the city of Belgrade. But I believe that this support will not be reduced, because we have worked seriously and responsibly for the past nine years and we have clearly set goals that we will meet in the next period. But when you speak as a replica of my presentation and when you talk about your former organization, well, you didn't go out at the very moment when it was best for you than you do, you know yourself that your organization was funded by representatives of the former tycoon regime and that it was funded by a public enterprise, and you obviously went out the moment you didn't have any more interest in sitting in that same organization, but you shared attitudes with those who are hiding in the embassy today, when they're hiding from photographers, and when they're walking along with those same ambassadors. When you talk about justice itself, you said in your previous presentation - the U.S. Constitutional Court. It doesn't exist, Mr. Glissic. There's only the Supreme Court. We're coming back to that field of mine that we talked about a little over three or four minutes ago, that you obviously don't know the subject that we're talking about today at the National Assembly, and yet you don't understand that we're going to be choosing those four prominent lawyers here in the Assembly and you still don't understand that we're going to decide by a two-thirds majority. The SNS won't decide, you won't decide, we'll all decide together if we reach a consensus. Whether the consensus will be needed in the next elections will be decided by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But what I suggest to you as one serious and responsible politician is that you either decide to perform on your own, but do not go to the next election on some parliamentary list or list of a particular political group, so when you do not have any of your individual interests, you leave that list and become an independent MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11913	Thank you. Since there are no more reported replicas, the next reported by the list of MPs, Aleksandar Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11914	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Pantic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, I think that this previous round of replicas has shown, in essence, how broadly SNS representatives view the whole situation and the whole discussion, and how much, as many representatives of one part of the opposition see this as a topic or a polygon for collecting cheap political points. What's been bothering me for a while, and it's showing up now, is that up until a few months ago, let's go months ago, but surely by a year ago, we were constantly attacked, that we could in certain media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas to hear how that affects the choice of judges and prosecutors and how we all get involved. They explained this because it is being conducted in the Assembly, where the SNS has an absolute majority. Now that we're in a position to change that, you now have a paradoxical situation that the representatives of the opposition are criticizing you for that too. Now there's simply a question of what you want and whether there's anything that's good for you one way or another, or whether what you criticized the other day or the other month, now that you're changing, you're not even going to praise it. We are in a paradoxical situation that people who were and advocated to change the system of choice of judges and prosecutors, now they don't want to and propagate something quite fifth. It just shows how irresponsible and irresponsible politicians who represent the opposition are, but first of all, part of the opposition, I don't want to generalise everything, but those who represent the former regime. When they were able to decide something, to change something, they did everything counter to what they stand for today and did everything to harm Serbia's citizens first. One more thing that's very strange to me and somehow I can't understand it as any argument, we've often been able to hear the meetings of the Assembly more like the main board or the party meeting of the SNS, as if that's how you want to place something on us. I absolutely don't see the need for this, do we need to feel guilty now that we have recorded such an election result and that we have so many MPs in the National Assembly? If some other opposition parties, above all, had had the courage to go to the polls and in that fair game to fight for a place in this assembly, there would probably be more opposition MPs. I just don't understand the desire of certain representatives of the opposition to place it on us and make us feel guilty about it. Absolutely none of us feel guilty, and we're absolutely proud of that result. I also find it strange to talk about someone using terms for MPs as they are, and thus establishing the same mantra that has already been repeated for more than a year that anyone who does not think the same way as Dragan Dilas or Vuk Jeremic, thinks with his head and fights for the interests of Serbia and its citizens in every way must be humiliated or humiliated by some kind of degradation, as we were recently able to hear. What's interesting to me today, and we've spoken, dear Mr. Pantic, and last time you were here, it's what bothers us all first and foremost as ordinary citizens. I think you were in discussions and the last time you were here, and even today, you could hear how many of those affairs were left, scandals that didn't get some of their final act. You know, even today in 2021, which is scandalous for me, we're talking about this 2009 and 2010 judicial reform that left the deepest mark and why we are now in such a situation that we have millions of unsolved cases, but that citizens don't have much confidence in the judiciary. You know, the question arises, that's what a simple man asks – when will someone answer for it? You've heard it yourself, we've repeated here several times, a thousand people in one day without justification, for no reason, without explanation remain on the street. You could hear from us yourself, even here we showed these documents, where in a certain municipality in Serbia the lower left corner stands the DS seal, and in the lower right corner of the local self-government and so goes the proposal for a judge. What's most important in his CV or what's in his biography is the title he had in the DS. Then the citizens rightly wonder – why was it so then and will someone answer for it? I'm often in touch with the citizens, are they citizens' receptions, is it a conversation somewhere on the street, and here we were today able to exchange ideas and suggestions and suggestions, but also opinions with citizens here in Knez Mihayl, and there was one question – will and when will someone answer the already famous story of the bridge that has been paid to Ada? It's amazing that one man is absolutely untouchable in this country, and that's Dragan Gilas. Only four affairs discussed extensively by the competent state institutions have collected evidence, suggested, indicated that there is something beyond the law, are not enough for that man to go to court once but only to bring his defenses to justice. We are not talking about whether he will be convicted or not, since he is trying to pack it up, is there already someone for him to judge in advance, but is it possible that you in particular in the Ada bridge affair, then the city's power to over two million Eves for a company that is involved in the production and service of ships, and the city of Belgrade does not have any ships in its possession? What ship did we buy? That's what they've done under consulting services. What have you been up to with them, people? About what? What's with the money? King Alexander's affair -- six million euros overpaid. A tender beyond any legal rule, no one informed who got it. It wasn't until a week later that they told the other firm she didn't get that job. The journals aren't run properly. Ates on the devices weren't done to anyone. Another six million euros for underground containers. The board of directors doesn't know that underground containers will work. So, the City Cleanness Management Board has no idea about it, they don't make any decision. The money gets out, pays off, and then projects are done where these underground containers will be placed. It is amazing that today those people who led the city of Belgrade and the whole of Serbia, therefore this renewed DS regime with Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and the rest of the world, are again taking over from the government thinking that the citizens have forgotten this. Something that is the best indicator of their passion and insolence because they have seen it all go to them is the acquisition of those famous 30 “Spanish ” trams that are now rarely where you can see it. The same and better and better quality trams paid a million and 800,000 euros per piece in Debrecino, as it is said. Belgrade paid 2.2m euros. Only on those 30 trams is the difference of 12m euros. Not to tell you that the experts then explained that the contract was harmful and that we didn't need them. Why? Well, because during that period, we had incompetent city power that was railing for trams never serviced nor changed, nor adequately guarded and looked after, so we dropped those Spanish trams because they were low enough to hang in certain curves, so they didn't even serve. Not to mention, it seems to me that a farce cost me 10,000 euros for that tram so when they saw that they couldn't even get to those spare parts, then the experts, look out now, figured out to retire new trams, five of them to keep in the garage, and then scribble it like what part of it broke down and then they took off these new ones. Then no wonder the citizens ask if and when someone will answer for all this. I am convinced that the people we are discussing today and discussed in some past period will do their best and will work in accordance with the law in the interests of Serbian citizens, but the question arises – what and how this part of the opposition will do in the coming period and what pressure it will put on these people when you have one party of this Vuk Jeremic who adopts a resolution on rematchism. Now I ask you, I am not a lawyer – explain to me, please, how do they think they do it and what does this resolution on rematch mean? They say, we're going to subtract frequencies from televisions that didn't behave in harmony. How, in what way, what is the legal basis? He says they'll all answer. Now you will come to the street where you recognize someone or the address and arrest us – for what? What does that rematch mean, and what kind of message is being sent to people today and who are taking positions in the judiciary, but also to people who are dealing with politics today? Does this mean that none of us sitting here in parliament have to feel threatened? I've never broken any laws, but never. That won't keep me safe, 'cause the Wolf of Jeremiah is going to get back at me. I'm just asking -- how and in what way is it in accordance with the law? We leave many questions open unfortunately because still these people who have ruined our country today hold a letter and represent themselves as some alternative and think that they are God's days and belong to them alone. Dear Mr Pantic, I will finish with this, my colleagues have discussed it, the referendum will be the first exam and I agree with colleagues who have said whether the referendum will pass or not – it will not be a defeat or victory of the SNS, but at that point it will show that one part of the opposition will treat both the state and the referendum. Now I ask one question to all of us as a society – if we have these announcements four months before the elections, what will happen before the elections, during election day and election night? That's what we all have to think about because people who have so much money stolen from Serbian citizens, and who are aware that they have no support, are ready for anything. That is why I wish the proposed candidates a lot of success in the work, but above all I wish them full independence and to be resistant to the pressures that this part of the opposition, led by Dragan Gilas, this Jeremic and this whole team, will create for them in an attempt to score something better or some kind of political point more. For the very end, I would like to wish the citizens of Serbia, as we are already approaching and the end of the year, probably this is my last address this year, and I would like, above all, a lot of health, happiness, success, progress in 2022, and to my colleagues, the party council, another successful election process, because the results that we have all achieved together, fulfilled the promises we have made, well, by doing so and by doing so, but also the vision that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, guarantees us that for our citizens, our children and all the generations that come to work in an even better and even greater interest for the better tomorrow of our country, our Serbia. Thank you, and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11915	Thank you. Next reported, Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11916	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr Pantic, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have had opportunities over the past year, i.e. in this conference to often express our views on the work of the judges and often talked about by my colleagues Daniela Veljović and Sanja Jefić Brankovic, as well as today before me what my colleague said. Indeed, the position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia on this issue is that we must seek an independent judiciary. It's always been, and often in these discussions lately, the topic of the referendum. Of course, our view is that as many citizens as we need to come to a referendum to show legitimacy and give legitimacy to such a process, it is up to us to explain to the citizens what constitutional changes mean and that they concern only the works relating to the judiciary, and not as some other political parties are trying to represent in public, that there are some topics that are not at all subject to the referendum, or what citizens are going to decide on on 16 January. What I want to point out today and what I want to talk about is, when we talk about a choice, or a list of candidates for members of the Competition Council, something about the Commission itself and the candidates chosen, one important task, and the Commission itself is, first of all, promoting a culture of competition in the open, free market, but on the other hand, the Commission's task is to see all those restrictions that can exist on such a single market and to sanction some cases where businesses act contrary to market laws, especially when it comes to agreement on prices with competitors, when it comes to market abuses, but also when trying to control the market through certain mechanisms, such as concentration, merger or merger of companies. The role that the Commission plays in the development and preservation of a healthy economic and economic climate is very important. Any state that wants to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit of its citizens must worry that every citizen who deals with entrepreneurship, every new company that enters the market, has the same treatment as those companies and businesses that are already on the market. There is an important role of the Commission to protect competition, above all to remove the biggest obstacle on the market, i.e. the biggest obstacle that should lead to healthy competition, which is to create monopolies. Monopoly is the opposite of healthy competition. He's only popular where wealth is obtained with someone's help and with various privileges. The prevention of monopoly is important because only the existence of monopoly, possibly, can have a negative impact, especially when we talk about goods and services, when it refers to prices, to quality, but also to the supply of products and services on the market. In the case of the existence of monopoly, customers sometimes have no alternative, the monopolies are in a position to raise prices unobstructed, especially when it comes to situations where these prices do not have a replacement, i.e. citizens cannot give them up and these are certain products, such as basic life supplies. When we talk about the quality of goods or the provision of services, the situation is similar, without pressure and without constant competition, or pressure from competitors. The monopoly will never have the motive to work on the quality of the product, to raise the quality of the service, and consumers are then forcefully focused on the products and services as they are. And, in this case, when there's healthy competition, it's always on the consumer side. When there are several competitors on the market, they motivate each other to continuously improve the quality of goods and services and thus remain on the market. Of course, when a monopoly is present, consumers are constrained with the choice of goods, and freedom of choice is an effective mechanism that pressures manufacturers to take care of both prices and quality, but also of consumeraficence. It is important that the Competition Protection Commission monitors market movements, to be satisfied with citizens, to be satisfied with consumers, and that everyone on the market plays on equal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11917	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Justin Pupin Koscal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11918	Dear President, Mr Pantic, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will speak for the first time today on the subject of the election of judges. So far, my distinguished colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, Tom Fila and Dubravka King have always talked about this topic. Even though I'm not a lawyer by profession, I have a sense of justice. According to Justicia, the goddess of justice was named and I want justice available to everyone. To go to the judge means to go to justice, he spoke Aristotle. You who first choose this responsibility, know that in your work you will have to judge people and their fates. Regardless of the fact that justice and justice are not synonyms, continue to make sure that our citizen is used to hunger, poverty, grief and pain, but the injustice is never, nor will he suffer. In accordance with Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a unique legal order in the Republic of Serbia. The government's regulation rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters. The ratio of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. As MPs, we will try to pass fair laws, laws that should improve the position of our citizens, but as the Latin proverb says - the legislator is imaginative, but life is even more imaginative. That's where you come in, because the practice in this case, the court, corrects the laws. The difference between the messengers and you is that we are discussing what will happen here, while you are in the courtrooms discussing what happened. I wish that all injustices, all misunderstandings, all lawlessnesss would remain behind us, recorded in the judgments of your honorable, professional and impartial judges who will equally value everyone's guilt, everyone's debt, everyone's tears. For us socialists, it is important that every man be equal in the eyes of society, in the eyes of the state and in the eyes of the law and of the court. We don't just need legal guarantees and equality in society. We're looking for their literal achievement in court practice as well. I know a sentence that justice is slow, but available, and it would be good if it were reached at the right time, at the time that lawyers call a reasonable deadline. I feel for all the people who have been waiting for justice for years. On the other hand, it seems that individuals are doing justice in time to define themselves. So I'm going to point out again that equality is important. We MPs should be prepared to speak on any subject that is on the agenda with less or more success, less or more good, but judges on any subject that the parties place before the court must answer best, best knowledge and the ability to look at facts. Therefore, the criterion of expertise is the most important, and the fairness of virtues that must beautify every judge. Next constitutional changes, changes that should strengthen the independence of courts and judges. But, Your Honor, don't wait for a change of constitution to make you independent, be it from the moment of entry into service. Don't let any calls change your opinion formed on the Constitution, the law and the facts. It's the only way to preserve, not only the reputation of the judiciary, but the pure face. I am aware of the time in which we live, that pure cheek often takes courage. Please have the courage to decide, the courage to condemn, the courage to set free. The subpoena is noble, because being a judge means serving people and judges that we hope in the day of voting to choose for a judicial office I want them to judge justly. And just like Justicia, the goddess of justice, holding a sword in his right hand with a blindfold and a left scale in his right hand, symbolically expressing the need to exact away guilt and innocence. It's not our people's fault that he's convicted from all sides, he shouldn't be convicted even to a slow, inefficient and dependent judiciary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11919	Thank you. The word is Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11920	I thank the President, Mr Orlic, the Honorable Mr Pantic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is a difficult day for us, today we have had a memorial meeting dedicated to our dear friend, Branko Marinkovic, who has performed the office of Deputy Secretary General of the Serbian Parliament with honor and honor. We lost Branko, and I would like to extend my condolences to this occasion once again on my personal behalf and on behalf of the MP group, our dear comrade, friend and colleague, his family. Believe me, all of this shocked us when we got that information and that a man can't give a speech on that subject, because it's really one big shock. I would also like to remind the citizens of Serbia that we had a memorial gathering for Branko Marinkovic on today on December 28th, and on this day 1610 in the village of Mrkonjica near Trebinj, in the Popovo field, in Serbia was born St. Vasilija Ostroški Vrdoški, one of the largest saints of the Serbian Orthodox Church and our saint. I hope so, and I believe this isn't an accident that the Branku memorial was just today. I wish him a trip to heaven, a place where he deserved it, and if we're as good men as Branko, maybe we'll join him. But this terrible event, and everything that's going on today and all this fight that we have today, not just today, but all week long, and about fighting the crown of the virus, and that we're doing well, and about solving the energy crisis and other crises and this huge energy that our President Alexander Vukic and his associates are investing in, it's okay to have criticism as power, but it certainly isn't right that we have terrible threats and insults. On this occasion, I want to take advantage of both Mr Pantic and Mr Pantic's presence and make a request, not an appeal, but a personal request to the judicial institutions to respond when we have such shameful threats and insults. Amongst us, here today is the folk deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Sandra Christmas, the mother of two children who suffered terrible insults and threats that I cannot repeat. I can't say it again because I have both mother and sister and wife, but I don't know if these people like Dragan Djilas, Brkic and those who published these tweets today like Mladjan Djordjevic, Predrag Popovic, do these people have mothers, daughters? Do they have women in their environment? As far as I can tell, this isn't a political struggle, this is violence against women, this is evidence of their frustration with women, successful women. So this is how you threaten one MP, one SNS official, the mother of two children, just because she represents Alexander Vukic's politics. The continuation of hysteria is happening and will happen as long as judicial institutions do not respond properly. Vladenko Malovic, a member of the presidency and heads of our party's information service, threatened to cut hair. They've been threatening President Alexander Vukic's entire family for weeks. Mladjan Djordjevic, probably has the support of the work of judges, the works of tycoon mobsters, continued with even more monstrous his posts and wrote and Ceausescu was never more powerful and loved. Direct call for the liquidation of the President of the Republic. So, what did the judicial institutions do? What did the D.A. do? Is this guy invited to make a statement? I, I have no face to read these today's insults at the expense of my dear colleague Sandra Christmas, because if I read what they wrote, Mladjan Djordjevic, Predrag Popovic, those insane minds, believe me, I don't know if I should be ashamed to come to my own home and tell me if you are normal Uglesa what you read? What kind of vomit and abominations are these people who deal with politics? These are the people who lead the opposition. These are the soldiers of Dragan Gilas. Well, is that an alternative to Alexander Vukic's politics? Insulting mothers, putting on gangers of SNS, haircuts to the head, winding down the president of the Republic. Is that their policy? Well, we know how some of them, while they were in power 20 years ago, we know what they did and that they saved the life of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. At the time, security services and competent institutions did not protect Prime Minister Djindjic properly. We've had the liquidations in the 2000s, a few mob murders a day. Afterwards we had their action Sabela, 12,500 of which turned out to be almost 11,000 were innocently arrested and the state paid millions of dollars in damages. Well, then we had their long announced reform of the judiciary that destroyed the judiciary in 2009 and 2010, and this was more discussed today by my colleagues, Kesar and Dabic. So, what was the consequence? The state of Nokdown, the justice system in ruins, is still recovering today, and I hope that it will recover far better than their catastrophic reforms of the judiciary. But what did they do? They made it today, I just hope it's in a small percentage, that they also have their judges on the payroll, a smaller number of happinesss, most of you are congratulated in the judiciary and the prosecution, they have their paid prosecutors, they have tycoons they work with, they have mobsters who are in prison, and some of them are out there, and some are hiding in the region and in South America. That's the policy. It's that alternative policy to Alexander Vukic. In order for us to eradicate them, not that policy, but that mafia octopus, to defeat crime and corruption, or to bring corruption down to a minimum, we must have both as an executive and as a legislative authority, the support of the judicial authority. There are no two Serbs, we have one Serbia. One front should be the executive power, the legislative authority, the judicial authority with the help of the prosecution and the police, to overcome this mafia, to overcome all their tentacles. Not the murderers to be released, not the accomplices to be released, not the ones who destroyed evidence that they were released and that all those involved in organized crime or were part of the octopus were punished in accordance with our laws. Also, to send a message to the public, Serbian citizens, that whoever is a nation and religion and political commitment can feel safe in his country. But how can citizens think that when every day Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Mladjan Djordjevic, Popovic, Brkic and their comrades threaten Aleksandr Vukic and his family in the worst possible way. And now they've gone one step further to threaten SNS officials because they often go public and declare their political stance. And how does Vladka Malovic or Sandra Christmas feel safe and any woman who deals with politics and represents the politics of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS when competent institutions do nothing to protect them. How now to get Sandra out to Kosovo Street and go to her house. What, he should wait for some lunatic to listen to Djordjevic's tweet and then what? Well, why didn't you say so? Well, here we are. It is okay that part of the opposition led by Gilas achieves the best possible result in the election. It's okay. But it's not right to threaten, it's wrong to announce murders, it's wrong for anyone to live above any woman in Serbia. We of the SNS will always stand in defense not only of our friends, comrades, and our dear officials from our party, but of the protection of every woman. We also ask the state institutions and the competent authorities to protect the citizens of Serbia, protect the Serbian citizen, protect the woman in Serbia, but also ask the public, let's fight in politics with the programmes, let's go to the next year when part of the opposition is probably a little more present here than in parliament today, let's compete with the programs, let's intellectually, let's go to various areas, let's see what it is we are doing, and let's advance, that we may take some good advice from the opposition and let's build together Serbia, not threaten each other. It doesn't matter who's stronger, but it's ugly the way they do it. In that I tell you as a man, these are not men, they are cowards and Mladjan Djordjevic and everyone who insults you like this, and Sandra Christmas, Vladenko Malovic and all our dear SNS comrades, they are cowards, because only cowards can threaten a woman. Let's see those heroes threaten us. Here, don't heroize Gilas' options, don't threaten SNS officials. You're threatening us men, if you dare. We'll answer you, but you know how? In my mind, in my word. We won't respond to your provocations, but we men need to withstand these attacks. Leave the women alone. It is also my message to the competent state institutions, Gilasu and his compatriots and the public of Serbia. Keep going. We have a continuation of hysteria, where Goran Markovic threatened himself in the worst possible way. A real hero of modern times. That's not another Serbia. That's not Serbia's third. That is not one Serbia, because most Serbian citizens have said about which Serbia is. She said it in the election. The fact that there's a little bit of an opposition here, that's their thing, the people won't. Whether there will be more opposition in parliament next year depends on the people, does not depend on them, does not depend on Gilas and his mercenaries. One is Serbia, one is the system of values and one is the elite. In order for someone to be an elite, he should also be a moral man and love and respect his country and be loyal and respectable, not just famous. Any occupation that's at stake. We are now witnessing the hysteria of yesterday's session of the Vračar Municipality Assembly, where they attacked the republican and city authorities at the Vračar Assembly session, oppositions from Tadic and Zivkovic's party, former members of the Democratic Party -- why Serbia and Belgrade are helping the Serb people outside Serbia. I quote - we care about Serbs in Montenegro and Republika Srpska. We're only interested in Vrachar and Belgrade here. Well, is that their policy? Is that their system of values? Is that their respect for the Serb people to whom it belongs exactly those who attacked? Dragan Gilas at Vracar where he lives, I apologize I can't determine the exact location, because he has more real estate, I can't even say the exact number because I can agree with the citizens of Serbia, but there's a huge number of property Dragan Gilas at Vracar, when someone tells him that he's a thief of his neighbors from Vracar, he cries in front of the camera. What should our officials do when they insult themselves in the worst possible way? Our officials suffer with dignity and insults and threats. But that's not the answer. The solution is for competent state institutions to react and for every citizen of Serbia to feel protected. Why? Because we SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, are fighting for strong Serbia, for modern Serbia, we are fighting for the future of our Serbia, for all our children, because Serbia is our first priority. The best possible policy for Serbia is being implemented and led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, which will be confirmed by the people in the next elections. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11921	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11922	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic of the High Council of the Judiciary, first of all, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the family of Branko Marinkovic, a wonderful man, a great friend, a man who did his job in the best possible way, a favorite man. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the judiciary is an independent branch of the government and indeed a large percentage, the highest percentage of judges are honorably and responsibly doing their job. However, he too has a small percentage of those judges who do not do so, and should. Namely, I am now going to talk about how the Association of Judges and Prosecutors sent an open letter to Judge Majic. That judge Majic, and we all know him, but I'm not talking about him, I'm talking about what his colleagues think of him. He asks the Association of Judges and Prosecutors - why, Mr. Majiæ, did you keep your mouth shut in 2009 and 2010, when hundreds of our colleagues were thrown out on the street, when they were disgraced, trampled, just because they didn't fit in with a vision of the judiciary that had the power back then? My colleague Majic, the people of professionals, judges and prosecutors have been crossed over with you well-known lists just because they were not alike. All of this was, or what in the legal sense equally points to guilt, it had to be known, but you kept quiet. You didn't write, you didn't tweet, you didn't take pictures. At best, you stood still, yet you flew and flew over the scales into the judiciary. We remind you of your words that every government seeks to place its mandate in the highest and most responsible positions people who are of its taste and measure, thus providing themselves with a dam against the law and in the period when their rule passes. Is that why you, dear colleague Majic, from the seat of the municipal judge with your 40 years of life and nine years of judicial training were elected judge of the Court of Appeal? In addition to your legal qualities and, as you present yourself, with your critical thinking, did it occur to you that you were chosen from another particularly important state interest in this place? Did you wash your scientific papers, in your opinion and in their opinion, the shameful past in which you participated with value and engagement in the trial of the NATO Alliance? Did you manage to convince the UN tribunal that you had changed? Did you make a mistake in your earlier work in court, that you were young and you didn't think, that you didn't know that others had seduced you? Did you wash away your youthful sins and entangle yourself with the current authority? In addition, in that flight over the coward's nest, and in the famous 2009 and 2010 your fellow airmen today joined with whom, by God, you defend the judiciary and the small frightened judges of your country. Anyone who stops to think for just a moment must be clear that you are, in fact, just defending your positions from the arrival of new, unsullied, uninvited, who have decided to go out on the fireworks of a judicial life. It didn't take you long to figure out a way to discredit anyone who could spoil your plans and rock the foundations of your little and such a powerful empire. You started slandering, you started to say better, you kept your country and colleagues who dared to think differently about you abroad. It's a reflection of weakness, unrest and panic. We expected more from you, Mr. Majiæu. The easiest thing to do is to disavow a non-sanitary, in your interpretation of an opponent, by demagogue his god-awl with a state summit and exclusively personal interests. We don't know each other, and we've been working together to defend the profession from all the plagues of injustice, the discriminatory forces since 2012. At that time, none of you, distinguished senior colleagues, wanted or should not have, had the interest of protecting the rights of thousands of judicial and prosecutorial assistants who, overnight, had lost their chance and hope in the judiciary. While we ourselves fought before the Constitutional Court for our rights, where were you then, Mr. Majiæ? What did you do then? What did you write about then? You remember that 2009/2010 year, when it was thrown into the street by more than 1,000 judges. When we came to power in 2012, we naturally refuted the damage to these people. That cost us 44.7m euros. Imagine what it could have been worth if these before us hadn't done this unholy act? One thing's for sure, you haven't written about the Soroshev funds and the funds of the Albanian Helsinki Committee. Although it has been published on the subject in many media, it seems easy for us to skip it. Not a word about it on the blog, not in the dedicated media, not at the global means of describing "Twitter". We agree, it is not easy to defend the thesis that money for your projects of transparency of the Serbian judiciary comes from such sources. If that's why we disagree, your attempt to discredit our association, to call us offensive names, don't worry, be calm, esteemed colleague, and tell your partners that we're not interested in that money. We won't drink from your spring. We only have the funds that we make from our joint employer every 15th and 30th of the month per coefficient established in the law. We are funding from members of those who are not sorry to separate the share from that small salary for a higher purpose and from the personal funds again from those salaries. We admit it's not easy, but it's fair and that's enough. It is enough for the judge and the prosecutor to be fair, and they will make an effort to overcome the fact that it is not easy with the hope that we will fight for the better, but it will be easier when judges and prosecutors are assessed objectively, when they are made only on the basis of working rather than paradicating quality, and when honest judicial and prosecutorial work is being valued and materially appreciated by giving them dignity and dignity in accordance with the responsibility of the work they do on a day-to-day basis. My dear colleagues, there are still five sides to this. I'll continue next time so my other colleagues can speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11923	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11924	Ladies and gentlemen, if we count the 10 judges we are discussing today, which we will definitely choose tomorrow, the Serbian Parliament elected in December nearly a hundred new judges and public prosecutors and that's a good thing. This will in any case contribute to improving the situation in the Serbian judiciary. I am particularly pleased that there is a Great Plan among the municipalities that will enter New Year’s with new judicial personnel. I remind you, among the judges we elected on December 15th there are five new judges from the Great Plan. I'll read their names, because I think they deserve it. For the first time, Bojana Lalic, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Velika Plana, Dusan Milosevic, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Svetlana Jovović, Judge at the Primary Court in Pozarevc, Tamara Radovanovic, Judge at the Main Court in Velika Plana and Jelena Vukkovic, also a judicial assistant in the Grand Plana court. At the time, the High Council of the Judiciary decided to judge 14 judges in the Supreme Court of the Great Plan. However, that number has never been reached for two reasons. On the one hand, because people retire and other jobs. On the other hand, because of the slow procedure of electing new judges. Meanwhile, in July, the High Judicial Council decided to increase the number of judges in the Great Plan to 18. Compared to last year, eight judges tried at the Main Court in the Great Plan. So, of the 14 allowed, the Court of Justice had eight judges at its disposal. Now the situation is much better. Four judges who were accepted in the meantime with these five judges we elected on December 15th, the Grand Plana court now has 17 judges. There's a procedure in place for selecting another judge. So, for the first time in a long time, the Grand Plane court will work at full capacity. What matters is that it is mainly young people who represent the future of the judiciary and the Great Plan and Serbia. The second thing, citizens with the right to expect, given the current number of judges, to increase the number of judges, that the court proceedings will now be shorter, that the court proceedings will not be difficult, as has been the case so far, three, four, and even five, six years. Otherwise, there are 11,000 pending cases at this time in the Grand Plane court. By the time these five judges were elected, there were 900 judges. When these cases are distributed now to a total number of judges with these new judges, the situation will be much better. So 650 cases per judge. New judges both in the Great Plan and in all Serbia have a difficult task of restoring Serbian citizens' trust in the judicial system. There's been no such thing as trust for years. It is widespread in the people to think that courts do not judge by law, but that in many cases they judge by relationships, by personal acquaintances, to judge on the basis of a bribe received, especially when it comes to people with a lot of money and when it comes to politically influential individuals. After a December 2014 survey, citizens at least trust prosecutors and courts, 68% of all major state institutions. Following a public opinion survey in September 2019, only 21% of Serbian citizens have confidence in the judiciary, while as much as 48% have complete mistrust with judges and prosecutors. After a survey of July this year, the percentage of citizens who trust in the judiciary fell to 15%, while 53% have total mistrust with judges and prosecutors. In a relevant survey of 2017 in which 1,218 judges from 83 primary and senior courts were surveyed, 84% of them voiced mistrust in the judicial system, and 78% believe that in the judicial system they are not dominant expertise and knowledge, but similar relationships and nepotism. The same poll included 385 public prosecutors from 47 prosecutors. 85% of them believe that justice is dominated by personal ties and nepotism. So, judges and prosecutors in all, nearly 1,600 judges and prosecutors believe that, to a large extent, progress in their careers and for the general state of the judiciary are important family, godfather ties, that nepotism is important. I point out that this is the situation where judges and prosecutors are still elected by the National Assembly. I now have to express concern about what will happen if the proposed constitutional changes are adopted in a referendum on 16 January that will almost completely deprive parliament of the authority to elect judges and prosecutors. According to the proposed solution, the judges and prosecutors, a little overstated, but the essence is the same, will choose themselves. We in Serbia have three branches of power. We have legislative authority, we have executive power and we have judicial authority. The legislative authority is controlled by citizens. They choose her in the election. The executive power is controlled by Serbia's parliament and local parliaments, and the judicial and prosecutorial authorities will not be controlled by anyone. I don't think that's good. I even think it's dangerous. I'm afraid the courts, that the judiciary doesn't become the extended hand of another center of power. I simply believe that no one in Serbia should and cannot be above the state and above the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11925	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11926	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished guests, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS has come down from the people and for us as representatives of the SNS and representatives of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – it is extremely important for our children to work on further development of the judiciary and strengthening of all institutions, especially those institutions in the judiciary. These must be institutions that will work for the people and for the people. So today's topic is extremely important for us as representatives of the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Before I go on the subject, I'd like to talk again about how the previous government treated the judiciary. Representatives of the previous regime, the former authorities are giving themselves the right to talk about justice today, and it is those who destroyed the judiciary and made today's citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the kind of justice they have, or that they don't have it. A colleague Dusan Maric also talked about it, he also talked about some things that relate to the relationship and representatives of the judiciary towards the judiciary, and we see that these reforms are, and I believe that the most guilty of these 2009 reforms that occurred during the representatives of the then DS are the most guilty of what we have today's relationship with the judiciary. However, we as representatives of the SNS, led by the policy of Alexander Vukic, are working in every way to restore the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in all institutions and in the institutions of the judiciary. When we talk about reforming the 2009 judiciary, we have to repeat this and every time, because it's never enough to repeat and remember that this never happens again in our lives, this reform cost 44.7m euros and 850 judges are out of work in the day. So these are the results of former regime representatives, representatives of the then DS, when it comes to the judiciary. We return in time, so in 2009, when representatives of the former regime identified the municipal committees of their parties, or their parties, when I tell my parties, it is now more of a party... You know that they had a fight with each other, that they couldn't cooperate with each other and then from one party, from the former DS, you have more parties today that are now talking about whether they're going to go, two, five, columns and they won't even know it till the end. What is important are the facts that we are talking about today, which is that the Association of Judges of Serbia sent a letter to the daily list "Politika" showing that then representatives of the municipal board of the DS Vlasotince talked at meetings of their municipal committees about which representatives, i.e. which candidates or potential candidates for representatives of judicial functions are responding and who are attached to DS, as much as anyone can help, etc. And today they're trying to get their hands on it in every way they can. We've talked about it countless times here, and we need to repeat the same number of times as many times as their models of work. They have similar models of work less everyone. First of all, they attack the president of the Republic of Serbia, and everything, of course, in order to weaken him and to rock him from his work towards Serbia's progress and in everything he does. When they see the president resist all these attacks, then they try to attack the president, try to attack his family, attack his children, etc. And that's where they don't stop, attacking further officials. A colleague of Ugljesa Mrdić was talking about attacks on individual of our officials, on Sandra Christmas, on Vladenko Malović, that I do not now speak the names of all our officials, because we do not have that much time. They've been calling lately, even for murders. They called for the murder of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. To me, the amazing thing was... This morning before the session, I read certain statements by their supporters that say, I must quote, that such words, which they call for violence, in which they call for the murder of the president of the Republic of Serbia, "the melem for the soul" and "the relaxation for the brain". How can such words be “a blemish for the soul ” and“ a relaxation for the brain ” to anyone? I, here, believe me, I don't understand, and I'd like anyone to give me an answer to that question. Last time I asked a question and I didn't get an answer – when will someone finally respond to these threats? I mean, that man doesn't live in fear, he works in the best interest of this people, but I think that the representatives of the judiciary should take matters into their own hands and finally start doing their job when it comes to threats to the president. We talked about what we, as representatives of the SNS, did in the past when it comes to the judiciary. We talked about what was done in the infrastructure domain. We talked about what was done when it came to strengthening judicial institutions and not just judicial institutions. We can talk absolutely about all segments because we are strategically trying to make progress in all segments of Serbia and move forward. What are the results? What was achieved in the previous period? Why can we say with certainty today that Serbia is moving forward and that in 2021, Serbia is no better than that of Serbia in 2012 and that we are not talking about Serbia earlier? These are completely different Serbia. I'll talk about it later. It is important for now to point out that Alexander Vukic himself opened over 250 factories and, you know, when we talk about opening 250 factories, we're not just talking about President Aleksandar Vukic coming in, he opened the factory and it ended. To open one factory requires one process of work, talking to investors, and later even finding adequate workers and those people we're going to hire. What's important is to mention that part of these factories was opened at the time of the coronary pandemic of the virus. So as unemployment grew everywhere, employment grew in Serbia. Some of the historical results that the Republic of Serbia has achieved are also proud of. I will not mention many of them now, but it is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to say so. This year's gross social product, historic years for Serbia, crosses 52 billion euros for the first time. If we compare this to the time when the previous regime ruled, so in 2012, GDP was an absolute amount of 33.7 billion euros. This means that in less than 10 years, we have managed to create 20 billion euros in additional, or new values for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are now talking about the average salary already being 610 euros in January, and let's remember, when Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister, the average salary was 330 euros. What difference does that make in raising standards? What's the difference we're talking about today? These are the results that are possible only because we follow Alexander Vukic's policy, we follow that vision of President Alexander Vukic, and it further allows us that we can have enough resources to invest in infrastructure. Here's what the European state can today boast that it is currently building 10 highways and fast roads. We talked about things, some laughed. The ones who laughed today, I think they understood, because we show by bit that we're not just talking, but that these are the things that are real. Speaking of which, I mentioned the pandemic of the Coronal Virus a moment ago, it's very important that we thank each other in this way, I don't know how much that means to the representatives of medical staff, but I'm sure it means a lot more to them the fact that just today 711 young graduates of medical school and schools and professional staff, when it comes to medicine, have received their work contracts. We, when it comes to the medical, or health care sector, have raised salaries and we will continue to improve the standard of living for all those who work in the health sector because we are grateful, and you know what they say – gratitude goes on as short as possible. We do not want to show for us as representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, as representatives of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children" that our gratitude does not last, but we want to show that we are grateful to these people who are on the front line of resistance from the Crown Virus already, here, almost, how old it is, two years ago. We and when we talk about these parts of our colleagues talked in the previous part of the session and about this new law that we will vote on, as of January 1st, so, from Saturday, we will see changes for the better, positive changes and we will see changes when it comes to families that have the first child. So, the family that gets the first child will get 300,000 dinars, as help from the state, and I think it will help and develop this country, and I think it says that we are directly thinking and thinking about the future of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of course Serbia itself. But not only do we think about those who come and need them as much as possible, we also think about those who are currently working, we think about those who have worked in the previous period, and that's why we're going to increase pensions and salaries. Salaries will be raised in the public sector over 7%, pensions will increase more than 5.5%. What's very important when I talk to older citizens in the field and when I mention these 20,000 dinars to them, I see by their faces and smiles that they understand that we understand them and all that they have left for us in the previous period and that they have left us this country that we just borrowed from them and leave to our heirs. We are working to make the average salary in Serbia 900 euros in 2025, to make the average pension 440 euros, and as some have laughed at it in the previous period, they laugh now, and we will show them in 2025 that they were wrong and that this is a reality, such as the reality of some other thing. All plans, Serbia's 2022 development plans, President Aleksandar Vukic will address the public tomorrow at 18 hours and will discuss it in detail, and as you have had the opportunity to hear us all who follow Alexander Vukic's policy talk about what has been done and what is currently done, but what are the plans in some future period, what is all we will do. Representatives of the former regimes that we heard were treated by the judiciary, and we also know how they treated all other segments when it came to the Republic of Serbia, so society segments today issue various statements. Here, we had opportunities in the previous period, in the previous days to see that Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Tadic, Jeremic and all the others who are strongest have already declared victory, show various research. However, what they need to know is that research to be valid should also be representative. There are other surveys according to which SNS has 57%, the opposition, so the SAA, Jeremic's party, DS, the Free Citizens' Movement, all others have 12%, and then everyone else below. It's not that important. Research is not so important because the most important research is the election, the election that will be held on April 3rd. You know, when the voter comes out behind the cover, when he looks at the lists, when he sees the names of those lists, when he sees who the people are on those lists, when he remembers, and I call on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to just remember what the representatives of the SNS did, what the representatives of the former regime were doing and to circle up the number he thinks will provide Serbia with progress and improvement, when all these voices are recognised, that's real research and that's the best research. The only relevant research is today's elections, because today in Serbia the people decide. We live in Serbia today, which is different from that of Serbia in 2012. Today, we live in Serbia, which makes sure that the judiciary is independent, which leads an independent policy, a free policy. Today neither the tycoons nor the foreign ambassadors, nor any media under direct control, or Dragan Gilas or Solak or anyone else, decide the people in the Republic of Serbia today. The former regime's representatives need to know that, and they have to understand that once before. The representatives of the judiciary we're talking about today I want, first of all, to have them stand alone in their work. I have used that word on several occasions in my speech, I want them to be independent, to do their job for the people, in the name of the people, and we will continue to fight to strengthen all the institutions, of course the institutions of the judiciary, because we think strong institutions are what is the basis for the further development of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-28-0.u11927	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If not, I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I interrupt this session for holding the 9th special session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened for tomorrow, starting at 10.00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that you will be informed of the extension of the 16th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
