ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e31	I am pleased that the budget we are going to adopt today concerns the children at the top, that it is a budget that prioritises efforts and supports those who have a need, and that it is a budget to eliminate poverty, a budget for justice and for equality. Children are in many contexts an deferred group. It's not without reason that we have, among other things. a children's caretaker. And let me first come into the role of the environment. It seems to me that there has been an ever-returning theme in Stortinget in the last few years – like this year as well. For the new plurality, it is important to stress that the environment, whether it is one thing or another, is set to do a job, not on behalf of the Department, the Government or the Stortinge, but on behalf of equality and discrimination issues, consumers’ interests and children. We will therefore not experience during this ageing period that e.g. The child care centre will be called in to the Council of State for something that the child care centre had to mean on behalf of Norwegian children. The majority assume that the umboda should have a free and independent position – not only on paper, but also in real terms, even if it should cause political discomfort to the government party from time to time. This is an area in which there are different political views, but the various mandates have at least now been given a clear signal for the next four years – and preferably for the years after as well – that they say and do what they think would be right on behalf of those for whom they are required, regardless of the current political views. Then we're sure that the environment does the job they're set to do. So to another important area in the budget: work on equality. It is very good that this should now be intensified, raised to the right on the political agenda. And it's good that the budget just shows it. The fact that the Government will set down an equal pay commission is one of the visible evidences that equality – including in the form of equal pay – is a strong priority. Getting a good answer to why the labour market is so divided, because there are so many pay differences, and what can be done to make up for it will be an important job next year. Lower parental pay in kindergartens is one of the other tools for a more equal society. It makes it possible for both women and men to combine care for children with participation in professional life. Therefore, it is regrettable that the opposition does not see the same need to build up multiple kindergartens and at the same time lower parental payments in kindergartens. Another area is the extension of the paper partition. There's one thing that fortunately there's a broad deal about in the hall, and that it's important to follow up. It is important that the boys are allowed to get on the way home, that they are allowed to show that they are good parents, and that they are allowed to take a large part of the care for the kids. In Norway, we have a system of parental leave that is fantastic – a system that allows people to choose to have children, and that both mother and father can and should take responsibility for care. The early participation of fathers in care is important for equality, and it is not least important for contact between children and fathers. In the Soria Moria statement, we say that each parent will receive birth money on the basis of his own ignition. That's good, so we can get away from a system where father's dishes depend on what mother's done before or after birth. The parental leave is a parental leave. It's not a mother's permit, nor should it be a paper issue. However, the problem is that the part of the parental leave that is not a father’s ear is actually a mother’s leave. It's unimaginable. The parental leave shall be shared fairly between parents. That's why it's an important first step in working with a more equal society that we're getting the leave for a father with a week from July next year. It's the most important thing you can do for more equality between Mom and Dad in this area. Our goal is to expand this quota from five weeks, as it is today, to ten weeks. In many areas of this budget, the new majority is showing a new focus on children and young people, on equality and justice. It's a good start for the development that we're going to meet in the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e54	The Soria Moria Declaration states: «The government will fight all discrimination. All shall be required to have the same opportunities to develop, exploit their abilities and live their lives, regardless of sex, social background, religion, sexual orientation, disability or ethnicity.» These are strong target formulations and mandatory target formulations. These are goals that express the very core of social democratic ideology. The government budget and the work under way show a strong willingness to do something about these objectives, a willingness to use the necessary instruments. Perhaps more than in any other field, one sees that liberal rights are not sufficient to achieve the desired equality, or to ensure equal opportunities for all to realize their desires in life. Homophiles and lesbians do not have the same rights as heterophiles, and yet prejudices lead to discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. Minorities with a migrant background face discrimination in housing and employment. Minor asylum seekers do not receive the same rights as other children in Norway. Women are discriminated against in working conditions, including: visible through employment interviews, in management recruitment and in pay terms. Women have significantly lower wages than men, despite long-term objectives and a number of policy decisions on equal pay for women and men. It's not like the Progress Party claims, that women or minorities have to thank themselves. It is not such that discriminated groups can individually combat established structures, traditions and attitudes. It is not that equality of rights leads to equality of treatment and equality of results. There is often a need for different treatment in order to achieve equality in the outcome for women and for minorities. It's this confession the government takes inwards, and in a brave way actually does something about it. It's brave to put a gender quota in the control rooms. It is courageous to challenge traditional conservative environments by starting work on getting gender-neutral marriage legislation. It is courageous, and timely, to reduce an equal pay commission and thus challenge traditional attitudes in the labour market both among workers and employers. It is brave to put the search light on sexual mutilation and forced marriage. But at the same time, I would like to stress the Government's recognition that we still know little about what works, and what are the right strategies to end an unwanted practice. The Government will therefore undertake an investigation work in close cooperation with the concerned migrant organisations. It is a shame that minor children in receptions are not guaranteed the same rights and care as children in Norway. It is therefore important that child protection assumes this responsibility from the UDI. In terms of gender equality and discrimination between different groups, there are many violations taking place in our society. It is therefore important that the new equality and discrimination ombudsman is provided with an independent and independent basis for the job to be done, to enable him to fulfil the vigilance role that the ombudsman is supposed to have vis-à-vis the administration and society. And it is important that the new ombudsman continues the long-standing work of the Equality Ombudsman in Norway has done and has been greatly welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e70	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e73	I wish the government could look seriously at a major problem involving children and young people who are on the run from home or institution. I understand that the government does not have an overview of the number of children and young people who have escaped from home or institution. I think that is very serious. The issue of escape seems to have a national scale that is not yet fully understood and which is also perceived as difficult to quantify, among others. because there are different practices for conducting escape statistics among the various child guards. State council writes in an answer to a question where I address this problem: ‘I would like to point out, however, that although I agree with the representative Thomsen that it is very unfortunate for the child/youth to abstain from treatment by escape, I do not consider it a solution to deprive children and young people of their right to co-determination.’ How, then, can one avoid harming children and young people, and that others may harm them, if one is unwilling to address the problem? There may be a need to amend the Child Protection Act at this point as parents and children do not get into such a desperate situation in the future. Children between the ages of 15 and 18 should not be able to exercise the right of co-determination in cases where they choose not to participate in treatment measures proposed by the guardians in cooperation with the protection of children and choose to be in a state of total care without the control of the guardian and the protection of children. The tapes here are the kids and the kids, and not least the family. That the government says it can't figure out how many people are on the run, is very shocking to me. In the letter of reply that I received from the Council of State, the Ministry says they do not have an overview. Is it not then – I'm sorry, President – just to check the protocols with Child Protection – how many are there on the run, and how often? Here it's clear that there's some darkness that have to come out. Or is this deliberately concealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e85	Yesterday the evening post had a notice of increased interest in adoption. Adoption organisations recognise increased attendance by parents who, for various reasons, want to adopt children from abroad. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that families with normal finances should be able to afford to adopt if they want to. We are therefore pleased that the subsidy to parents who adopt children from abroad is increased from NOK 31 090 per year. children in 2005 to NOK 38 320 for 2006. Let me make it clear that adoption support has increased by 70 pst. under the Government of Bondevik II. It will allow many more families to adopt. In the previous period, the Christian People's Party was able to amend the Cash Support Act to allow families adopting children to receive two years of cash support in the extension of the adoption permit, in line with parents taking out maternity leave, with subsequent cash support. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that those who adopt should be as prepared as possible, both for their own interests and for the sake of the children. That is why we are proposing to introduce a preparatory course for parents who want to adopt. The aim of the course will be to provide applicants with the necessary information as early as possible in the adoption process. The course will include, among others: provide knowledge of the adoption process itself, repatriation, etc. Finally, I would like to say a few words about cash support. It was quite frustrating for many families of young children to wake up on November 10 this year. After the Center Party had declared itself to be the winner of the cash support case at Soria Moria, many young children's parents got a cold shower when they felt that the Center Party had given itself in the first round of the budget. The cash support has been cut by a total of 273 million. kr. Many people want care solutions other than kindergarten. Clearly, the cash support did not reach the Government’s priority list. That is why, together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, we are promoting today a proposal in which we ask the Government to ensure that no further cuts in cash support are made until we reach full child care coverage. If the centre party cannot even vote in favour of this proposal, it is a clear signal to the 80 000 families who are currently receiving cash support: still in kindergarten queues if you are not rich enough to handle you without the cash support, because the new government does not recognise the care solution you have chosen for your child.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e102	The municipality of Tromsø will be one of the very first metropolitan municipalities to carry out full childcare coverage at a low maximum price on parental pay. I am irretrievably proud that I come from this municipality. In the municipality of Tromsø, it has been a deliberate policy – and important – to have full childcare coverage and low parental pay. The municipality of Tromsø has a young population that needs many kindergartens. To ensure full childcare coverage and low parental pay is to facilitate freedom of choice for young children’s parents. It is a good and important strategy and an important tool for good policies for young children and for young children’s parents. As a single parent for a daughter, I had years of experience in kindergarten queues, and I used many different day mothers. The day I finally got a kindergarten, I experienced a real freedom of choice. I was given the opportunity to take higher education. As a parent, I felt secure, that my daughter was flourishing. I knew that this was a good and educational offer that I could be sure was good for my daughter, and that this was stable. I am proud that the majority government has resigned from the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party in this budget, made a promise in the area of kindergarten, that we have put children and young people in the centre. It's important for our children that we have a good growth policy. It is also particularly important for all young children’s parents and single caregivers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e113	It has been heard in the debate here today as if we have liquidated the cash support. That's not right in any way. It is also produced in such a way that the centre party is the large loser in terms of the cash support. I don't want to say that either. The Bondevik government closed in 2003 the night child supplement to all parents in this country. That was NOK 700 per year. months. The small child supplement was added to the cash support. They premiered when those who did not go to kindergarten, they received both cash support and small children's supplements. That's what you did with a pinch. I asked the representative Olemic Thommes here before today if he thought it was predictable for the parents. He didn't answer. It is that we have harmonised the cash support with the child benefit. You cut out the last month, like you do when you pay child benefit, and then you halve the baby supplement, at NOK 354 a month. But it is still the case that the cash support is NOK 3636 more this year and in the budget that is now adopted, than it was before the baby supplement was terminated. So a little comment to the representative Molvær Grimstad, who in my reply replied that the municipalities are responsible for minor asylum seekers, and that the Children's Convention applies to all children in Norway: we are criticized by the UN three times in a row for discriminating against these children in this country. And it's not that the municipalities have that responsibility. It's UDI who's responsible. Before entering into relations with a minor asylum seeker in that country, some people must have reported to child protection that the child suffers from a care failure. Who's going to report it? Is it the reception where these children live? These receptions are not approved by the county, as is the case with a child protection institution, nor is there any supervisory function at reception. These children are UDI's responsibility. Child protection only enters after notification. And once again, we're criticized by the UN three times in a row because we're breaking the Children's Convention with respect to these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e124	In an earlier speech in this debate, the Council of State for Gender Equality, with an invitation to the Right on the proposal we have submitted, came to the question of turning this into a transmission proposal. It probably depends a little on how clear the Council of State can be in relation to confirming to what extent the Government will work on this. Based on the posts she has had in the past, I have not been sufficiently prepared. I would like to ask the Council of State if she can confirm that the Government will address these questions and work with them further, and that the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to comment on this matter later, when – hopefully – some results have been obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e131	We've discussed cash support earlier today, so I'm not going to drag up a new, long debate on it. But the representative Holten Heimdal challenges the Center Party on the proposal that the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and the Progress Party have on cash support today. Now it is that the Christian People's Party has just come out of a government and knows that no government can give a blank mandate to the budget one year before it is decided. So I want to say that when we in the Central Party vote against today, it is not because we disagree with the intention behind it, but simply because we are not quite ready to start the budgetary work for 2007 yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e138	I would like to repeat what I said earlier in the debate today, and that is that the Council of State – and now I am speaking on behalf of the Minister of Justice – is working on a specific matter where he will consider the possibility of imposing fines as a kind of penalty on a specific basis, and the Government will have a broad review of what is in this. So the Storting will be presented with a case during the spring part, so that the Right also has the opportunity to make new assessments and, if necessary, to include it in the law. It'll be clear in the springtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e144	What makes me take the floor is what I would call a strange post from the representative Holten Hämdal from the Christian People's Party. I want to remind you that there are not many weeks since the Christian People's Party went out of government, and we all know in this room that the Christian People's Party together with the Left and Right has had to fight a lot of fights to reach compromise. Then I would also like to remind you that the Christian People's Party in the government is removing the infant supplement, that is, for the same age group that we are talking about here: those who receive cash support. When the Christian People's Party was in and out of the small children's supplement, the Center Party voted for the cash support and for the small children's supplement. During the election campaign, the Center Party argued that we should keep cash support. The opposition chattered over this and argued that when the Workers' Party and SV have programmed to remove the cash support, the Centre Party would never be able to make an impact on this. And I don't know how many debates former Prime Minister Bondevik spent time on this very topic. The result is seen in the Soria Moria Declaration. It says that we should keep today's cash support. And unlike the representative of the Christian People's Party, I will characterize it as one that says for cash support and not as a defeat, which there is an attempt from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e161	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e164	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response and I would like to inform you that we are converting our proposal, proposal No. 23, for a transmission proposal. I am pleased to note the seriousness of the issues raised, and we look forward to following this matter forward in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e169	Several representatives have listed this with the small children's plugin. Those who think history from far back think that the infant supplement was introduced in its time as an alternative to cash support, before we got cash support. When, in its time, the infant supplement was incorporated into cash support, it was not contrary to what the Christian People's Party originally fought for, with the introduction of cash support. If the government party had thought that the small children's supplement was as important as one of these highlighted it, it is strange that in their adjusted budget proposal they did not again propose to introduce the small children's supplement. Since several people referred to the representative Holten Hemdal's posts, it is for good reason that this proposal has been taken up in the setting today; it is precisely to make peace around the cash support. Because at first one thought – and that is what the Center Party must pay for – that when the cash support was mentioned in the Soria Moria statement, and it was referred to as one saying that the cash support was at peace until it was full child care coverage, we actually believed it. And we congratulated them on that. But when it turns out that it's only the principle that's secure, not the level, and when the Center Party can't be with and vote for a proposal that ensures that there won't be any further cuts in the cash support in the future, which could give the necessary calmness and forbearance, what should the young children's parents who depend on the funds they receive through cash support do? Should they sit in a nursery queue because they don't know what's going on? We know what the SV and the Workers' Party would have wanted in the first place. During the previous budgetary procedure, they would remove the support from the accounts as of 1 January 2006. That's why this is an invitation to relax around a system that's enormously important to many young children's parents, and that I hoped the Center Party could be safe and secure, so that we could once and for all bring peace. But obviously we are not getting that through today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 842]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e196	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 868]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e212	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 868]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e220	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e433	During the debate, 23 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 11, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2, 4-10, 12 and 14-22, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, No. 3 and 13, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 23, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right The proposals are included in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 23, which is distributed in the hall in a rich edition. Proposal No. 23, from the Right, during the debate, it is turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to come back with proposals to amend the penalties for breaches of the rules on gender representation in management boards.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2, 4-10, 12 and 14-22, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e3856	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 11, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e7428	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 13, from the Party of Advancement, right, Christian Party, and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e9086	Here, the Right Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against. The President assumes that this also applies to the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e11000	Here, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will now support the position subsidiaryly. The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-2.ana.ud862e11050	There is no record.
