ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e82	The representative Michael Momyr, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting continue beyond the regulatory time until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. The evening meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18, as usual. For the representatives' briefing, it's about making us finish not so late tonight. The hall will be prepared for tomorrow's Memorial.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e107	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2645]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e123	I would like to point out that the Riksrevision's tasks are laid down in the Constitution, and that the law and instructions are given by Stortinget. Now it can be particularly pointed out that there has been a new treatment of a new law on the Riksrevision. It is the first report under the new National Audit Act of 7 May 2004 and instructions on the activities of the National Audit Office of 11 March 2004. The notification of the Riksrevisions activity has been sent to Stortinget according to Section 17 of the instructions on the business. I refer to the fact that new laws and instructions are mainly a codification of established practices, but involve some changes. I would like to point out that the Riksrevisionen’s discharge authority and the approval of special accounts have been wound up from the financial year 2004. This means that control in whole-time companies is extended to include the administrative audit. The Committee has registered that the Court of Auditors, inter alia: assumes the audit of the Husbanken and the Loan Fund from the financial year 2005 onwards, while the audit responsibility for government foundations is liquidated from the same date. In particular, the Committee would point out that the annual report of the Riksrevisions to the Stortinget in Document No. 1 has also changed in form and content and the re-reporting for the financial year 2004. The Committee also points out that the new law also provides for deferred disclosure of case documents in cases considered by the Riksrevision to be submitted to the Stortinget. The Committee notes that the submitted annual report reflects the activities of the National Audit Office in 2004, and feels that the Riksaudition has a more important and important role to play in following up the activities of the entire administration. One of the new challenges that the National Audit Office will also face is the increasing introduction of electronic management into public administration. IT systems are becoming more complex, especially in large enterprises, and significant investments are being made in the new and development of existing systems. The Committee points out that developments also impose new requirements on the audit methods, audit tools and competences of the National Audit Office. Another aspect that the Committee would point to is the increased use of Public Private Cooperation, OPS, in some sectors to solve societal tasks and when infrastructure projects are carried out. The agreements concluded and the investment projects carried out are partly very complex and extensive. The Committee points out that, as a result of these developments, the scope of control by the National Audit Office over the compliance of the activities with the procurement law, the conclusion and follow-up of contracts and projects and their achievement of their objectives is also affected. Here, too, the Riksrevision has significant challenges. The Committee would also stress that it is very important that the Riksrevision should have a more active role in the fight against maladministration and corruption, as stated above. the fourth paragraph of Section 9 of the National Audit Act. It is the opinion of the Committee that the Riksrevision through the audit will contribute to both the prevention and detection of maladministration and errors. The Committee would also point out that, without prejudice to professional secrecy, the Riksrevision may itself notify its findings or suspicions to the police or other control bodies. Finally, the Committee would also point out that major demands are being made on the work of the National Audit Office staff. In this context, it can be pointed out that the development of competence that takes place internally, but also in external courses and good grant schemes, is of importance. We record the development of a mandatory three-year competence programme for all new auditors who will enter into force in August 2005. As regards the documents forwarded to the Stortinget for examination in 2004, the Committee refers to its comments and the decision of the Stortingen in the various cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e167	One of the biggest tasks is to check whether government and administration follow the decisions taken by the Storting. The Civil Ombudsman is the extended arm of the Stortinget and the practical exercise of parts of this control and is therefore anchored in the democratic control power of the Stortinget. Not only that: the Civil Ombudsman is the people's lawyer, and he has the entire public administration as a working area. The Ombudsman therefore has a very important role to play. The Civil Ombudsman contributes to safeguarding the rights of the citizens in relation to the administration and thus contributes to giving legitimacy to our society. For us who are engaged in a strong public sector, this is particularly important. I would therefore like to stress that it is very important for the administration to follow up the decisions or recommendations made or made by the Ombudsman. The Committee is of the opinion that there is a great deal to be done to ensure that an administrative body does not follow up the possible criticism of the Civil Ombudsman. It is important in relation to trust in government, democracy and the legal certainty of individuals. It is assumed that the administration will both prioritize and devote considerable work to the Ombudsman’s enquiries. The Committee is pleased with the job done by the Civil Ombudsman. It is a unanimous committee that supports the setting of the annual report. I would like to comment on some of the areas in which the Committee has been involved when we have worked on this annual report. The annual report shows that the Ombudsman carries out an extensive activity vis-à-vis the administration. The Agency prioritizes the provision of information and contacts with that part of the administration where individual decisions mean a great deal to the person concerned, for example: the protection of children. The Ombudsman considers that these visits help to strengthen the knowledge of how the proceedings are conducted and the challenges and problems faced by different administrative bodies. The Committee agrees. The Annual Report allows the Storting to take part in this knowledge. The Committee considers that the specific focus of the Civil Ombudsman on the administration of foreigners and the protection of children is important, because these are management areas affecting individuals who have a particular need for proper management and good governance. The Committee also welcomes the active involvement of the Civil Ombudsman in the work done against lone minor asylum seekers. The annual report shows that the Ombudsman raised 18 cases of his own initiative in 2004. Because this part of the Ombudsman's work provides opportunities to deal with matters of a principle and general nature and interest which affect many people, the Committee calls on the Civil Ombudsman to increase his involvement in this part of the area. It is to the extent that the Civil Ombudsman has said that he likes to take. The Ombudsman takes up the practice of more publicity by the administrations in the annual notice. The Public Service Act requires the public body to assess whether documents or information may be disclosed or partly disclosed to the public if, in accordance with the provisions of the law, they may be avoided. Not all public sector bodies assess more public opinion. One topical issue that has been raised by the Committee is that Farsunds Avis, who has worked on the Lista case, has complained to the Civil Ombudsman on the basis of a refusal of access to documents. The Civil Ombudsman gives the complainant the right to say that the Ministry of Defence has not assessed any more publicity when the Ministry has rejected it. The Ombudsman also says in the Annual Report that the issue of more publicity is particularly relevant in the case of requirements for transparency in internal documents. Section 5 of the Public Service Act provides access, but not an obligation, to exempt the internal documents of the administration from public disclosure. This access is in particular justified by the need for a free and confidential exchange of views within the administration during preparation of cases. The Ombudsman says in the Annual Report – this is described in a modest way – that he has not rarely found reason to criticise the administration’s legal application. The Committee has noted that the Ombudsman considers this practice of the Public Service Act to be due to the opinions, culture and lack of knowledge of the legislation of the administration. Therefore, the Government must take this into account because the Publicity Act is one of the pillars of our democracy. It shall ensure transparency for the citizens of the administration and is a prerequisite for an open and lively debate on the decisions taken. The Civil Ombudsman has delivered a hearing opinion on the new disclosure law that is likely to be promoted by the Government. We are going to discuss it in due course, but the Committee is already agreeing with the Civil Ombudsman's assessment that new forms of organisation in the administration must not result in state and municipal activities falling outside the scope of the law to a greater extent than the considerations of access to documents. I see that the Minister of Justice is nodding at these considerations, and that promises well. In other words, reorganisation, AS certification and outsourcing must not lead to closedness and lack of transparency. In the setting of the Annual Report for 2003, the Committee addressed this in relation to the reorganisation of the political structure of the municipalities, and that has not been the case for so long since we dealt with that annual report. The civil officer has also taken care of the freedom of expression of employees this time. After all, it was an area where an overall committee was concerned when the Stortinget dealt with the Constitution § 100 on freedom of expression. The fact that employees have opportunities to speak in public spaces is an important prerequisite for decision-makers to gain knowledge of the conditions of public institutions. Employees shall have a right and an obligation to report on critical matters. But that's not always the case today. ‘All the more often teachers, nurses, child-rescue workers and doctors were gambled. Some of them so effectively that they are threatened with redundancies if they talk about critical matters.» This has been written by editor Harald Stanghelle in the Evening Post. The Committee notes that it is important that the Ombudsman engages in this subject. Two reports have recently been received on this topic. One is 'Be quiet! On freedom of expression and the duty of loyalty of school leaders in Oslo and Akershus, prepared by the Oslo Editorial Association, and this is the report «Projekt Munnkurv», developed by the Institute for Labour Research of the Norwegian Nursery Association. Both show the importance of attention in this area. The latest report shows that freedom of expression has a poor health record. ‘Too many people have learned that the use of freedom of expression is punishable,’ says Research Manager Aslaug Hetle of the Institute of Labour Research. It is therefore important that responsible state councils follow up in the governance dialogue. But the most important thing is that we now get a law that can give employees real freedom of expression, and that this is followed up. Chances would be that it is just such a matter to be dealt with in Odelstinget later today. Another thing I want to highlight is that the Civil Ombudsman, in his cooperation with Jussbuss, has revealed that the allocation and loss of study places at Ringerijke Incarceration takes place orally. There is a great deal of concern about the education given to prisoners in Norway. More importantly, the allocation is made in writing so that the refusal can be verified and, where appropriate, appealed. Otherwise, I refer to the setting and the comments in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e202	The rapporteur had a good review of the report available. I'm just going to say a few words about one area, because the committee found that the Civil Ombudsman in 2004 raised 18 cases on his own initiative. That's what we call ET matters, I understand. I just want to confirm from this pulpit that there is enough that the Storting appreciates very much, and we probably want, if possible, to intensify and increase that activity on the part of the Civil Ombudsman, because it is one of the methods of addressing some of the fundamental issues of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e209	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e225	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e234	This bill by the representatives of Bekkemel Orheim, Storberget and Gjul is really about the practices of insurance companies in relation to the treatment of their customers. A review of how this treatment is carried out is requested, and a proposal to assess the impact of the introduction of contractual obligations is proposed. The Committee has joined the proposals of those representatives, but with some amendments, particularly with regard to the last proposal, where it is considered that the proposal does not go far enough. This is also the conclusion of government parties, in consultation with the Council of State. We believe it is right to have such a review, also to be sure that there is a factual reason why you refuse to insure some people. The imposition of a contractual obligation would normally concern a factual justification for saying yes or no. In a letter to the Committee dated 29 April, the Council of State indicated that this issue was already under consideration in the Ministry and that he expects and hopes to receive a letter of consultation on this matter in the course of May. I can already confirm that the Council of State has sent out such a letter of consultation, and that this matter is therefore being dealt with in the manner requested by the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e245	Like the proposers, the Government has also taken note of several issues mentioned in the media in recent years, where people have been refused insurance for various reasons. The government has, among other things: on the basis of the need to address these issues. In drawing up the insurance contract law, the Insurance Contract Law Committee in NOU 1983:56 assessed the refusal of insurance at the time of no problem in Norway. In my view, there is good reason to consider whether this assessment is still valid. For approx. a week ago, Tuesday 31 May, the Ministry of Justice therefore sent out a letter of consultation proposing new rules under the Insurance Contracts Act. In the letter of consultation, it is proposed to introduce a claim for a factual reason for the refusal of insurance by an insurance company. Furthermore, an obligation is proposed for companies to justify any refusal and detailed rules on the content of the justification. This letter of consultation and the recordings that will be made during the hearing, including: from the industry itself and from representatives of customers, the Government will provide a good basis for assessing the consequences of imposing a contractual obligation. The assessment of any legal regulation must take into account both the security represented by insurance for individuals and the need for companies to carry out risk assessments. What is a fact is that with this initiative, the debate we have seen in the media will also be brought up in the public landscape where it belongs, both in the ministry, government and big business, and that is what was intended for the proposers and in the position of the committee. As regards Part I of the proposed Decision, on a review of the practices of insurance companies in the preparation of risk information, I point out that the practices of companies in this field are regulated in several legal provisions, including: the insurance contract law § 13-1, the insurance business law § 7-6 and, in particular, the Biotechnology Act § 5-8 on the use of genetic data. So the companies don't act here in a legitimate room. They include: under Section 7-6 of the Insurance Business Act, compulsory to carry out risk assessments. A review of the practices of the companies in this area could be carried out under the auspices of the Credit Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e258	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e261	Home security, home security and the family economy are most often central to all of us. Caring increases the need for such security. Refusal of insurance may be very difficult for individuals and their dependants. Such liability must also be conscious of the insurance industry. Refusing insurance would be the same for many people as being deprived of some basic security. Refusal of life assurance on the basis of health information is a reality today. For dependants, this is a particularly demanding situation. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Justice has sent a proposal for a hearing which could lead to a strengthening of the position of the customer. Whether unsubstantiated refusals of insurance are a problem in Norway, the consultation round may be able to elucidate. It may also clarify whether the refusal of insurance by insurance companies concerns the general exclusion of certain groups. The question of whether, under the law, insurance should be allowed to be refused is to strengthen the position of the customer vis-à-vis the company. Reasons for refusal of insurance are important. In some cases, such justification will be given, but it will not be able to remedy the economic dilemma facing the individual. A timely question is whether the industry with such an importance in the critical moments of life should be allowed to choose a segment in that way. This is a case complex that sorely needs debate and lighting. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice for having contributed to putting it on the agenda, and also to the proposers, although they did not think this was such an important matter that they had to be in the Chamber when it came up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e293	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e310	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e327	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e344	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e361	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e378	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e387	The size is then ready for voting in case No. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e505	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘Before the Finnish Law is implemented, a referendum on the legislative decision shall be held. The government is asking the Finnish Government to hold a referendum on questions of yes or no to the new law at the same time as the merger elections in September 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e524	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit to the Grand Government the question of renewal/renewal or termination of conventions and treaties, within the necessary respective time limits, in order to enable the Grand Duchy to take an active decision on the question of the suspension or continuation of the Conventions. Where it is possible to terminate Treaties or Conventions, without specifying any specific time-limits, a notification shall be made to the Storting during each major period of these Treaties and Conventions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e543	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a Commission to assess existing rights in Finnmark. The Commission’s mandate and legislation shall normally be consulted before the matter is brought before the Grand Duchy.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e562	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for local, rights-based management of the three major watercourses in Finnmark.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e581	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for a protection plan for the land of Finnmark where all current administrative protection decisions are continued at the same level and a total review/monitoring of existing protective measures and a monitoring of the need for new protective measures.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e601	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 24 May 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate, as soon as possible, the rights of cooper and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark, including the minimum quota for boats below 10 metres, and to promote a follow-up to this for the Stortinget.’ The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. –
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-06.ana.ud2101e625	There is no record.
