ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e39	Representatives Eva M. Nielsen, Torbjørn Hansen, Torny Pedersen, Ivar Kristiansen, Thore A. Nistad and Bård Hoksrud, who have been licensed, have again taken up seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e82	The Board of Directors has given a remuneration commission the task of determining the annual remuneration of the grossing-up representatives and the members of the government. The Commission shall establish the same remuneration for all the major representatives and shall provide a higher remuneration for the Prime Minister than for the other members of the Government. The Commission’s assessment and determination are carried out on a free basis. The remuneration is determined either at specified crowning amounts or in relation to other rates or amounts. I am now referring from the mandate given to this Commission. When the Storting has wanted an independent payroll commission to determine the remuneration and salary of the representatives of the government and not the Storting itself, it would be unnatural for the Storting to choose to change or ignore the recommendations of the payroll commission, although of course we are the seventh and last to adopt what they put forward. However, the Presidency will take the initiative to provide rules for the remuneration committee to justify its decisions. With this, I recommend the Stortinget to consent to the Presidency's majority position, Innst. S. No 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e91	The Employment Commission was set up in 1996. A large aggregate increase supported the establishment, with the exception of SV, which then argued against. Since then, SV has respected the fact that a pay commission has been set up, but has always called for a final position to be taken by the Stortinget, which is to determine the remuneration of the representatives and the salary of the Councils and the Prime Minister. This means that you cannot accept the attitude of the payroll commission without discussion, but you have to decide if the setting is reasonable. What we have seen for many years now, since the establishment of the Wage Commission, is a development of the remuneration of gross domestic product representatives who have generally been above the general wage trend in society. There have been two years, in 1999 and 2003, where the Wage and Wage Commission has not proposed an increase in remuneration and wages, but otherwise the general rule has been that there has been a wage trend for the Wage and Wage Representatives over what has been common to most people. SV believes that this is an unfortunate development. This means that you naturally get to focus on the remuneration of the big business representatives in public space, you get a debate in the media, and you get a commitment to the population. I note that there has been some use of rather harsh expressions in connection with that debate, both among the big business representatives and among other politicians. It has been thought that this is something the big politicians are not supposed to get away with, that there is evidence of so-called populism that there is a dissenting point of view, and it has been said at all that this type of debate should take place to the minimum extent possible. Of course, the SV believes that this is unfortunate. If there's something to do in the storeroom, there's just open debates. It must therefore be possible for the representatives of wholesalers who are finally to adopt the compensation to stand up and defend the decisions actually taken. What SV is proposing this year is that the remuneration for the grossing-up representatives should follow the general wage trend, and it has been 3 1/4 pst in the last year, to be accurate. It is expected to be about that level for the coming years. We also believe, in line with the Soria Moria statement, that we should not stimulate a general wage trend in society where the difference between high-income groups and those who earn less is only increasing. But what the payroll commission here is proposing is exactly that kind of development. So we are proposing an increase for the Prime Minister of 4.8 p.m., for the other government councils of 4.4 p.m. and for representatives of Stortinget on 3.9 pst. With the kind of development over time — if the Storing does not lead to obstacles — it just means that the wage trend for us as elected members of the population and for the members of the Government suggests an increasing difference in relation to the general wage trend. This is, of course, fully possible for the Storting to do something about it, by leading the Commission’s mandate to prevent such developments. That is why SV in the Chamber today is also promoting a proposal that could just contribute to it. It would have been natural that that proposal had won approval precisely on the basis of the objectives that politicians should not have privileges that the population otherwise cannot participate in. I am thus promoting the minority proposal put forward by SV in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e106	Odelstinget’s Vice President, Olav Gunnar Ballo, has presented the proposals included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e109	The Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission was established by a decision taken in 1996. The Centre Party has annually voted in favour of the Commission’s recommendation to provide evidence for the representatives of the Grand Duchy and members of the Government. But we haven't realized at any time that we haven't been able to have another opinion. On the contrary, we have dealt annually with the Presidency's recommendation at our group meeting, and we also have for several years in connection with the case of evidence-promoting proposals for a review of the plans for depositors. The thing today is special. A moderate pay decision in 2006 is crucial to securing many businesses and jobs. The Commission’s proposal for evidence implies an increase of 3.9 pst. for deposit representatives, 4,4 pst. for Councils of State and 4.8 pst. for the Prime Minister. Wage growth for 2005 is estimated at 3 1/4 pst, and the expected wage growth for 2006 is between 3 and 3.5 pst. What's special about the case today is that both LO-leader Gerd-Liv Valla and NHO-leader Finn H. Bergersen have encouraged the Stortinget to show moderation by staying close to projected wage growth. Thus, the size can participate in a common signal of moderation into the pay-roll. The centre party will set up such an invitation to do. We don't want to allow more to ourselves than we require others to accept. It's particularly interesting that the NHO has such a clear opinion about the Stortinget's treatment of own evidence. This must mean that the NHO will also clean up its own rows. After all, it is high time that the NHO looked at the search for the development of rental wages that we have had, for example. over 12 pst. from 2003 to 2004. There have been many allegations in the debate in the fall — one debt comparison with other rents. The responsibility of the Prime Minister should suggest that Prime Minister's tribute is seen in a very special class. The payroll commission has not done so. Another claim is that there may be ministerial councils that have a salary higher than the state councils’ evidence. The centre party agrees that recruitment may involve such a ranking. It is the position of the Council of State and not the evidence that determines who is the boss at any given time. We also believe that this should be the case in the municipalities. It shall not be such that it is automatic in the relationship between public deliberations and the salary of the councillor. The centre party will maintain and further develop jobs. We participate in a government that works for smoothing out and more community, and that has closer cooperation with the social partners as its goal. We are not represented in the Presidency. We were set to make an own proposal in this room today. SV's minority proposal from the Presidency is a cover for our vision. We're going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e126	The left has agreed in principle that the representatives of the Grand Duchy should not discuss and determine their own and the salary of the members of the Government, but that this should be done by the Commission appointed to take care of this task. The parties that call for the decision to be made by the Storting, well in the near future, to abolish the system of mass accumulation – with the exception of the Socialist Left Party – has been united over the last decade, and which has ended most of these unworthy debates in which political disdain is rife. When one sees the outcome of the debate this year, where the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in a populist way – if I may call it it – addressed that discussion, one must be able to ask what the goal is. Left thinks that biging and government shouldn't be payroll. But is it that a difference of NOK 3000 a year in gross wages and a salary for the Prime Minister who is so far above the highest official salary at his office is an expression of the difference in good and bad signal? The left is summed up in the presidency's proposal that the name of its decision should be based, and we are not afraid of openness and public debate on the subject. On the contrary, such a foundation will provide a better basis for a substantive debate where people know why the proposal is as it is, instead of many of the arguments we have seen in the fall. But it is not the bigotry representatives themselves who should be at the head of this debate. This is and should be an expedition case where the Storting takes note of the fact that it is decided to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. [[Footage, see page 230]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e166	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e173	Let me first thank both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for the briefing on Norway's commitment to Afghanistan and Iraq. It's a good thing that these briefings were carried out in the open. It's important to have maximum openness associated with Norway's foreign involvement. This is particularly important when Norway participates in military contributions. The background to the international engagement in Afghanistan is the desire to contribute to peace and reconciliation. For decades, the Afghan people have lived in a more or less permanent war situation. The lawless, insecure and total lack of democratic justice have our standard. In the absence of a functioning state, the country has its own army of criminal gangs, the one terrorist regime has replaced the other, and the country has been a haven for terrorist groups. Although the briefings show that there is still a long way to go before democracy has settled and order is restored throughout Afghanistan, I think we need to focus on the positive developments we have seen in recent years. This country is currently controlled by selected representatives. The President is elected by the people, and 18 September this year, the winding-up of parliamentary elections under relatively quiet forms. A law is starting to take shape so little. Although exceptions exist, the security situation for residents in the country has improved. It is no longer a haven for terrorists. The positive developments we have seen in Afghanistan in a democratic direction would hardly have been possible without international involvement and presence. It is important that the positive developments we have witnessed are taken care of, and that all parts of the country are allowed to take part in this development. Should that happen, the continuation of international engagement is decisive. Afghan government needs help to bring peace, order and reconstruction. Afghan society has been missing in most areas, from infrastructure via civil institutions to police and judiciary. It is therefore important that international assistance is organised as widely as possible. Unfortunately, the security situation in the country is the biggest threat to further positive development. Parts of the country are run by local warlords. Drug production is still a major problem. The requirement for a positive development in civil society is that security be maintained. It is difficult to see that this can happen without continuing military efforts. Therefore, the continuation of international military engagement will be necessary. NATO has a great responsibility to secure military presence. The stabilisation of Afghanistan is now NATO's main priority. ISAF is now being expanded at the provincial level. The ISAF regional stabilisation teams are responsible for increasing levels of Afghanistan. The main objective of these stabilisations is to support local governance and to increase central authority authority and local impact. I am pleased that the Government confirms that Norway will take its share of the responsibility to help Afghanistan further. Norway shall contribute both to the development of civil society and to the maintenance of security. If a society is to function, it is decisive with a functioning police and justice system. It is positive that Norway proposes to make this possible. Norway’s military involvement in Afghanistan shall be at least the same level as today. The Norwegian term of office of the United States-led ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation expires in January 2006. Norway will after that concentrate its military efforts in Afghanistan on the NATO-led ISAF force. As ISAF’s responsibilities expand, one will also enter areas that are even more exposed to security concerns than is the case today. In the same way that military presence is decisive to preserve the security of civil society, it is decisive that military forces are safeguarded as best they can. Dangerous situations may arise. Then it is important that the forces on the ground can get the help they need. Air support can then be decisive. Until last winter, ISAF didn't have its own aircraft. Before it was a dependent on support from the American led operation «Enduring Freedom». Norway has now been asked by NATO to contribute aeroplanes to ISAF, so that the ground forces can meet their security needs. It's natural that Norway is positive to this NATO call to contribute flights. In the same way that operations from Operation Renewing Freedom have been able to help support ISAF, flights under the ISAF command will be able to be asked to assist Operation Renewing Freedom personnel in the event of an emergency. The Minister of Defence made it clear in his briefing that it is ISAF’s engagement rules that are to be taken into account in any such support. Aeroplanes under ISAF's command shall have no offensive role in operations under Operation Renewing Freedom. In my view, the agreement between ISAF and Operation Renewing Freedom on mutual support is natural, and until now ISAF has benefited most from this agreement. There may be different attitudes to the historical events that have led to the current situation in Iraq. But now we should focus by looking forward. The situation in the country is difficult, and international assistance will be decisive for further development in a democratic direction. Norway will take its part and contribute to building up that country. This will happen both directly and through the UN. Norway assisted through NATO for training Iraqi security forces. The training at NATO's training centre on Jåttå will continue. The useful work of training Iraqi police officers will continue. A functioning police force will be decisive for the further development of the country. Financial support that can help improve the quality of the population is important in order to achieve greater stability. Repatriation of civil society is important. Norway will help to make this possible. The humanitarian support from Norway will go partly through the UN and the World Bank and partly through Norwegian voluntary organisations. It is important that Iraq is given the opportunity to stand on its own as soon as possible. The country is rich in natural resources and should have the potential to generate large incomes. I notice, in particular, that the Foreign Minister refers to the petroleum sector. It is worn down after many years of lack of investment. Here Norway, and not least the Norwegian petroleum community, should have much to contribute. In Norway, there is expertise in most areas related to oil and gas production. Norwegian authorities have knowledge of governance, concession policy, legislation and taxation. This is knowledge that should be able to be transferred to Iraqi authorities. Someone has tried to present the briefings of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence as a change of Norwegian foreign and security policy. That is not the case. Norway is adding a more focused effort. Norway has also before withdrawn or transferred its involvement in military contributions. Norway now organises its efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq in the same way as many other NATO countries do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e227	The large lines of Norwegian foreign policy have traditionally brought together a broad majority, and this broad majority has always included the entire government. When parts of the government's parliamentary basis are now in the process of distancing themselves from, yes actually warns against, the government's own policy, we have a new situation. Will the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee work on the creation of a broad majority of parties on the Grand Duchy other than those in government, in order to maintain a strong course and prevent the winging of these sensitive issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e232	It has been a good tradition that one in this room has tried to gather on a unified line of foreign policy, and I would like to be involved in and contribute to furthering that tradition. Today's government has several figures behind it, but is still busy negotiating with as much of the Storting as possible in the most possible cases. When it comes to this specific matter, there is only one view carried out by the government. Therefore, it is not that one in this case needs to get special support beyond what is the basis of the Government. There's a whole government behind these two orientations. I also assume that the parties that form the basis of today's government are behind the same orientations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e239	It has to be minus that part of the government that used to be on the lawn outside here. When one hears the Labour Party's attempt to explain why some UN missions are more legitimate than others, one is tempted to quote, as suggested: restless winging, knows one where. It's bad enough that we don't know where we have the Workers' Party on such important questions. Worse, our allies become uncertain about what we stand for, at a time when the country strongly needs a mutually trusting relationship with its friends. The question is: what criteria will be used to select the United Nations mandates and UN missions that are worthy of the Workers' Party's support in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e248	I want to display the previous line exchange, which meant that we have a tradition in Norway for this area to have to try to get as big a deal as possible. I hope we can continue with that. One of the premises is that we don't suspect each other's positions and the basis for them. Of course, Norway has received many outrages through history. Some of these requests have been accepted, others have been rejected. There are several things that have our background for this. These are things that have been associated with the force that Norway has always had at its disposal, and a number of other relationships. Of course, this will also be the case in the future. You can't answer today how you might want to respond to calls that will come in a year or ten years. Therefore, it is necessary that all of these decisions are taken on a self-contained basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e255	It is good that the new leaders of the Foreign Affairs Committee put themselves on a line of broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. I agree with him that we should not suspect each other's point of view. But then it would also be nice if we already got one thing clear about the two operations that the Government is pulling out of, Operation Reverend Freedom in Afghanistan and the stabilisation force in Iraq. It must be quite clear from the evidence that both have a solid UN mandate. It is, after a clear call from the UN, that we are both present in Operation Enduring Freedom and in the stabilisation force in Iraq. Now the government has chosen to withdraw, and we'll come back to that. But when it comes to the UN mandate, I assume that the representative Aksenssen, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, agrees that it is fully adequate and well documented in these two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e262	It is now that the Government has had to decide whether to continue the involvement in the quotas that Norway has given up to the international community, and so one has chosen to concentrate its efforts through the ISAF forces in Afghanistan. It's not that one can say there's any automatic in that one continues all the engagement that one has said yes to. Even before history, it has been such a victory for a time-limited period. Typically, these exposures are six months old, and then, of course, on a free basis, assume whether or not to continue. The government has now chosen to terminate two engagements and strengthen another. It's not like we know what the last government would do, for example. when it relates to the activity in Afghanistan. So once again, I want to warn you against making this as something other than that, that one wants a more focused effort from the Norwegian side, and that's what the Government has now added.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e275	The statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence last week well described the challenges in Afghanistan and Iraq. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government will contribute to promoting positive development in both countries, but as described, one of the most important and urgent challenges is to provide security for the civilian population. In response to this challenge, the new government has chosen to take some steps back and reduce Norway’s efforts. Norwegian military forces in Afghanistan and Iraq have made excellent efforts. There is no doubt that we have both had and will have a lot to contribute. The decision not to renew the efforts in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and not to have Norwegian officers in Iraq unfortunately creates a greater distance from the United States, but it is rather a desired policy for parts of the Government. More seriously, neither Afghanistan nor Iraq will come closer to peace with the new Norwegian policy. In Iraq we become almost spectators, while in Afghanistan we will in the future refrain from the important job of gaining control in many areas of the country, in areas where we know there are still pockets of Taliban and Al Qaida. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Today, I will focus in particular on how Norway can best contribute to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan, but also Iraq.’ [[...]] How we can best contribute, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that participating in Operation Enduring Freedom and having Norwegian officers in Iraq is not best suited for stabilisation? Or is it the reality that, in order to take one of the government parties, foreign policy action had to be taken that distanced us from our close ally USA? The changed Norwegian policy appears to be a clear victory for SV. It's interesting to see that a party that to those degrees was in opposition to the broad majority in relation to these issues in the last period has now gained significant impact. Nevertheless, parts of SV choose to protest against their own government because they believe that the policy conversion does not go far enough. This creates uncertainty about what's going to be next. This shift in line that is about to take place is one of the more serious results of the shift in government of the harvest. Now I am not a moment in doubt that the Foreign Minister will do his utmost to seek to maintain the good relationship with the United States. His invitation to the US Secretary of State to visit North Norway is thus a good example of this. It could be we also have a little bit to go on because of good efforts over time. However, the Progress Party is afraid that the current change in pace in foreign policy will weaken Norway’s relationship with close allies. And if there's something Norway needs in the future, it's ally, not least in the northern regions. The Progress Party continues to support Norwegian involvement in the ISAF team, including participation by three or four F-16 fighter aircraft. The ISAF team plays an important role in Afghanistan, but it is not that ISAF is currently in any way replacing the task of the US-led ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. The government strongly emphasises the need for UN anchoring of the foreign operations we are going to engage in. In addition, it is known that both the Centre Party and SV prefer Norwegian soldiers to participate in UN-led operations rather than for example. operations under the NATO command. For the Progress Party, it is the purpose, nature and scope of the mission that will determine at any time whether we believe that Norway should participate. The cost and availability of Norwegian contributions must be assessed below. Participation in foreign operations is also about looking at the impact it has on our domestic defence, not least the ability to care for our interests in the north. The emphasis of the UN is understandable and acceptable and has long been announced. We're concerned that this won't be a coercion. Going back a few years to the conflict in Kosovo, Norway chose to support and participate in military actions to save the civilian population in Kosovo, without a UN decision. Government and big business couldn't sit still and watch ethnic cleansing happen again in the Balkans. Have we now excluded an opportunity to make such choices in the future? Some of the problem with the UN and the United Nations Governing Body, the Security Council, is that not all Member States are as concerned with democracy, freedom and human rights as we are. Unfortunately, other political interests prevent member states of the UN and thus the entire organisation from acting on some issues. This is a profound problem without clear solutions. But at least that recognition makes us dry to think that we should nevertheless engage on behalf of vulnerable groups who are victims of persecution by our own leaders, or who are otherwise in acute danger. The belief that UN-led operations are so much better than others is also strange. Unfortunately, it is not that all UN operations have been shown to be equally successful, nor in recent times. The UN in the Balkans is not the best example, to formulate it carefully. The 1999 UN forces in Congo have proved to be obsessed with a number of scandals. So when the government points out that you want to participate more strongly in UN missions in Africa, I also hope you will take inward that there is a need for drastic changes in the way the UN has so far worked on. The UN mandate for military operations has not always contributed to the best protection of the civilian population. That is why NATO, and after each EU and other coalitions, have increasingly been used to deal with demanding operations where the UN has shown that they have not always taken over the task. The government generally has great faith in the UN as such. We share the Government's view that the UN should be used. The UN should be a suitable instrument, but unfortunately we experience too often that the UN is not the effective world organisation we wanted. I'm afraid we're forming a little too naive a picture of what the United Nations is, and you shouldn't look a lot in the paper archives to find one scandal after another. Now it's not necessarily a general expression of how the entire UN works, but it's an expression that the UN has its problems and challenges. Therefore, we would warn against basing Norwegian foreign policy unilaterally on the UN, but rather seek to use the organisation where it is good, and seek other channels for tasks where the UN is not effective. To conclude, I would like to say that we agree with the Government that, in terms of the situation in Afghanistan and Iraq, a wide range of instruments are important. We believe that the Government has only partially accepted this, and that, as we see it, the work on stabilising Afghanistan and Iraq will take longer than if we had had less US scepticism and a more realistic relationship to the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e315	I want to go a little bit closer to the basis of military operations, on which the representative Höglund spent a lot of time. It is the Workers' Party's view that Norwegian military involvement in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Pact and have a clear UN mandate. The party and principal programme of the Progress Party states that ‘Work for Norwegian participation in appropriate peace and stabilisation tasks’ and that ‘where this promotes Norwegian interests’ should be taken into account. Is it really understood that here one simply distances oneself from starting from trying to have the widest possible basis in the United Nations system for military international operations, or is it simply to base one's own interests and properness? I would like the representative, Mr Höglund, to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e324	The fact that an operation is well-established in the United Nations does not prevent it from being in Norwegian interest, rather on the contrary. I would like to believe that most of the decisions taken in the UN on these issues are also in Norwegian interest, and that will also apply to the kind of tasks we have in Afghanistan and Iraq. What we're warning you about, as I was in my post, is that at any time we have to commit ourselves to only participating in missions that have a clear UN decision. That would be the rule, and it would be desirable that it be so in all cases, hopefully, but the example of Kosovo makes us want to have an opening so that Norway, where we decide after consultation with the Storting, can also participate in other types of operations if required.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e331	The Soria Moria Declaration states thoroughly that it is in Norway's interest that we have a United Nations-led world system. A situation where individual nations run their own races does not want to happen. We also know from 1905, when Norway got its first foreign minister – and there is no doubt about this – that Norway as a small country was stressed, perhaps should not have a foreign policy at all; we should be at a low level. But at the same time it became clear that the small countries would be in the community. So it's true that if you want to give something to the United Nations, it has to be in practice, that's what will strengthen the United Nations – that Member States want the United Nations to become strong. In what way will the Progress Party contribute to the strengthening of the UN as an international actor, including in the field of security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e338	Discussing the reform of the UN in a line change may be somewhat flawed. What I tried to say was that we can try to eat the UN – that is, the UN can be used where the organisation should be used. But what we're seeing is that the UN and its sub-organizations may have become a little bit too ambitious, have tried to embrace too much. The UN has a role to play. We want the UN to be strong. That is not always the case today, and we would like to contribute to the strengthening of the United Nations. I have not in any way tried to point out that we, on the part of the Progress Party, do not want to participate in UN-led operations, rather on the contrary. But that doesn't necessarily have to be the only area we participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e343	We're at negative 1,500-- maybe up to negative 2,000-- blue helmets. That's the situation today. After Bondevik I and II, we have, in practice, gone from the United Nations. We have gone from where Norwegian soldiers are needed, where one should give protection to the poor and the persecuted, for example. in Africa. We've had a clear change away from what was the goal, a United Nations-led world order. In concrete terms, how will the Advance Party contribute to the return of Norwegian soldiers with blue helmets as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e348	In my speech, I pointed out weaknesses in UN operations in Africa and in the Balkans. It's probably some of the hindrance that more and more military operations have been taken over and led by coalitions other than the UN. The UN has not done the task. The mandate of the United Nations has not been good enough to save the civilian population in Africa, which has been more likely to be attacked by personnel in blue helmets. Of course, that's not the standard for UN operations, but it's also an image that we have to grab hold of and do something with. That's why others, like NATO, may have been better suited to solving problems like this. Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e353	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e356	When the two presentations were made last week, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs made a greater point that the presentations were made in order to provide transparency on what happened in relation to our contributions to Afghanistan and Iraq. An attempt was made to make this a contrast to the former government, which, after all, in open-mindedness repeatedly explained its activity and its policy towards Afghanistan and Iraq. This leads me to the question of this government, which so often talks about transparency, has thought about what transparency really means in the political discussion. Openness means being honest about your choices, about your changes, to create a public discussion about what you do. What was done in both presentations, and what was done by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, was a cover-up activity, an attempt to conceal that the Workers' Party has moved into security policy through the cooperation that has taken place within this government. There is an impression that there are pragmatic, practical strength-operation solutions and the question of how we distribute them, which is the background for us to now withdraw from Operation Renewing Freedom and Iraq. There are not 16 officers in Iraq who are the question here. That's not where the limit goes. It's like the Soria Moria negotiations haven't happened. It is spoken as if there have not been any concessions in the security and foreign policy at all, but that there has been a pragmatic distribution of resources. It's not openness. It's a veil. So far, the government's contribution to more transparency has been the concealment of its own choices, and concealment is a poor strategy to establish commitment to what you do. I record that most of the presentations have Right-wing approval. Most of what is put up for in Afghanistan and in Iraq by activities continues the line that the previous government had. It is important to ensure the reconstruction of both Iraq and Afghanistan with significantly greater contributions, including non-military contributions. But the only two points that were new in relation to the foreign policy of the previous government were the question of withdrawal from Operation Enduring Freedom and the question of having officers in Iraq for training and training police and defence, so that the Iraqis themselves can gradually get forces to take over control, including military, over their own country. It's the only differences and the only change points. But there is a big change point, because the reason for the changes is not available on the issue of the allocation of strengths and priorities; it is contained in a debate that has changed the focus of Norwegian foreign policy. It's concessions given to SV, and it's a distance distance from our most important allies. Therefore, it is not possible to fulfil what Haakon Blankenborg said in 2002, namely that there must be a country and government target, including the Stortinget, ‘to extend the foreign policy trade as far as possible, so that it is possible to pursue a consistent Norwegian foreign policy that makes Norway a reliable and secure partner in the international community’. So now we've been moving to meet what's been the tip of the Norwegian security and foreign policy debate in the last few years. That's why I think it would have been more honest for the government to actually say what choices you had made, and tell you that you've given the concessions you've given, and not try on this veiling process. I also think it is important then to answer some questions. Firstly, I think it is important that this government collectively clarify whether or not to support Operation Enduring Freedom, even if you do not participate. Is it so that a unified government supports Operation Renewing Freedom, or does it not? Or to answer the question that Jon Lilletun put to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee instead: Is it so that these two operations that we are now withdrawing have had a UN mandate, or not? I know the answer. They've got it. Operation Enduring Freedom has one of the most solid UN mandates given. So it's not the foreign policy guidelines that the Foreign Minister drew up, which is the background to this, that's the move of Norwegian foreign policy, and it's a powerful signal to our allies. So we can always focus the most on that there have been some SVs outside here and demonstrated because you haven't gone far enough, but they'll have to bear in mind that they've won a big victory when it comes to what signals are now given in relation to who we're working with, and how we're working together. For me, it is important to stress that NATO plays a crucial role as the underlying guarantee of Norwegian security in a changeable world. That is why we have given our wholehearted support to Norwegian actions that support NATO's continued role and relevance. In my opinion, the extraction of Operation Enduring Freedom and the extraction of Norwegian personnel from Iraq send a serious signal to NATO and our allies, especially to the Americans. And it's a break with the long line we've had. So SV has won out with its anti-US and anti-NATO policies, while the Foreign Minister is trying to explain it away. We have a breach of what has been our long tradition of allied support. It may have an unfortunate consequence on our reputation with our close allies, but not least it may be of less interest to support Norway where we have great tasks and challenges in the years to come. The northern regions are one of the areas where we have an unclear international legal situation, where we would need other people, other countries that had contributed to support on our side, so that we, among other things. had ensured support for our enforcement of e.g. the fishing resources in that area. We believe that we know where we stand, but we also believe that we need more friends to support us in this matter. An artificial distinction is made between ISAF and Operation Enduring Freedom. It is quite right that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: Security is a prerequisite for development. That's why Operation Renewing Freedom is a prerequisite for being able to rebuild Afghanistan. It is also an important part of international efforts to combat terrorism. Al Qaida and the Taliban are still active — and the activity is increasing, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also described. Then it is wrong to draw us out where we can contribute. It is important that we contribute to the training mission in Iraq, including: because the UN has encouraged us to do so, and there will be an artificial distinction between training the same soldiers in Iraq and doing so in Norway. But there are several signs that we are about to move from our NATO cooperation. The Soria Moria statement not only says that we should withdraw from Operation Enduring Freedom and that we should withdraw from Iraq, but they also call for the reassessment of NATO's nuclear strategy. We have been busy, not least under the leadership of former Foreign Minister Jan Petersen, to provide a global response to weapons of mass destruction, but we believe it is an unwise start for democratic NATO states to signal a new nuclear strategy while several undemocratic states and terrorist networks are working to obtain weapons of mass destruction. This will signal significant weakness to regimes and networks that threaten our security. Equally misplaced NATO policy will be whether the Government takes seriously its very clear and harmful message from Soria Moria. The government wants Norway to work to scrape today’s rocket defence plans. When the programme was launched at the 2002 Prague Summit, the Labour Party was behind Norway’s accession to the programme. Now the party has turned around, and it is breaking NATO solidarity. This security policy concern is no less serious because the rocket defence programme is an important cooperation action between NATO and Russia. It is important to bring this with us, because there is a foreign policy shift, not least in relation to our allies, in what the Government says. So to the question of a United Nations mandate. We will always believe that it is best for any international operation to have a UN mandate. It is best, and it will be our wish that we should contribute to the United Nations having that strength. But sometimes the United Nations is an organization that is unable to reach decisions in time, or they cannot do so because there are strong international forces that may not agree with it. One example of this is the situation in the Kosovo crisis. There was not a clear UN mandate, as the Government now prescribes. At the time, the majority of the SV voted in favour. In one way it can be rhetorical: this government has moved to the left of Kristin Halvorsen in security policy – at least the position she had in 1999. My main concern is that these operations that you're now trying to cover up, these changes, are going to make us more friendless in the international world. As a small country, we didn't need that, as a small country, we needed more friends, not fewer friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e389	In Political Quarter today, the representative Erna Solberg said that the Workers' Party has given concessions to the left side of the SV by deciding to withdraw the officers from Iraq. This she repeats now. Maybe Erna Solberg should have done her homework a little bit better. The Labour Party decided as early as December 2003, and repeated this in May 2004 in the United Kingdom, that we did not want to renew our commitment to Iraq, but would focus on Afghanistan and Kosovo. Nevertheless, the Bondevik government, by a mere majority in the Storting, chose to send staff officers to Iraq. So it was Erna Solberg and Co. which broke the tradition with the broad majority, which has always been the basis of foreign operations in Norway. My question to the Right is: Will the Right in opposition restore the broad consensus, or will they use foreign policy as Erna Solberg is doing now, to political mark? And what signals does that give to our allies and outwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e396	I record that the Labour Party's strategy is to try to conceal, to say that we are not going to have any debate on this, because there is consensus. The agreement is for the Workers' Party at all times that we other people should agree with a working party moving to the left. It's not like that. We're going to be on the NATO alliance. We're going to have a security policy that helps us make friends, even when we need to. And we're going to stand for people in both Iraq and Afghanistan deserve to be able to provide them with the security that means that the country will also develop gradually. If not, our activity has so far been in vain. I register that the Workers' Party made a line change already before Christmas 2003. After supporting the engineering team that we already had there, they decided for the line to have a small handful of officers who contribute to the construction. But from Christmas on, it's like that exposure would be a purely NATO exposure. That means that, in my opinion, the basis of the Workers' Party has changed the original disagreement with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e403	I have to thank the rose, not least because it is added that SV has won so much. But that's not how I feel. I feel that the UN has won the Soria Moria Declaration, and we also understand that a government means cooperation. Now, once again, to drag NATO into the Afghanistan debate, there's no doubt that NATO is also out to find its new role. Making NATO relevant becomes important to some people. For SV it is more important to strengthen the UN and get the UN on track. The UN clearly states that they look forward very much and would like to suggest that the regions themselves take more and more responsibility. But a small country like Norway can't do everything. We must also give priority, and then the Soria Moria declaration states that we must give priority to the UN. Once again, the question to the Right: how will the Right strengthen the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e413	Any international organisation will currently look for new ways to solve these tasks, not because the organisations are redundant, but because the threats, not least security policy, are different in today's world. So the threats, which NATO is also going to help us solve, are different. The most important threat internationally is not what is in the SV's programme, namely that the United States is a threat to world peace. The most important threat internationally is terrorism. It makes the basis for development and security ousted in very many countries, far beyond Iraq and Afghanistan. This is also why the UN is asking for regional organisations to help both in terms of security – perhaps especially in terms of security – and in terms of our area. The most powerful regional organisation in the world to do so is actually NATO. That is why I believe that we are strengthening the UN through, inter alia: to hold on to our NATO exposure and participate when the UN encourages us, even though it is NATO that is the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e420	I share the view of the representative Erna Solberg that it is important for the UN to give a mandate, and that regional organisations are responsible for the carrying out of the operation. That is precisely what is happening in ISAF, and we have decided to concentrate our efforts on ISAF in Afghanistan. I would like to ask the representative: in the summer of 2004, when we made a defence policy settlement, where, of course, the Right Party was involved, everyone, except the Progress Party, said that within the limits of capacity that Norway has, participation in UN operations should increase. Does this mean that the Right now does not support what they were involved in the June 2004 defence agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e427	Yes, we still support it, but we cannot hide the fact that the UN still often prays to NATO, among other things. to take part of those exposures and contribute to them. ISAF is an example of doing that. But it doesn't take away what's my appeal point, namely the lack of explanation as to why, in principle, the Soria Moria statement withdraws from Operation Enduring Freedom. Because that's the principle you've drawn out of it, and it's a satisfaction that you're going to withdraw from an American-led operation, not just that you're going to give greater priority to the UN. So I have to say that one of the things we might have to take inwards is that the UN's demand for its operations, aren't many soldiers, but it's to a large extent experts we have within the officer's corps. And so do we, among others. in Sudan. So it's special skills that we have, which are most often sought after. And it's a familiar case that, among other things, The OAU believes that there should be no Western soldiers other than at the officer level within e.g. Sudan, but that the common soldiers who should primarily come from African countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e437	Today's debate is itself an important step in the right direction, when, instead of a debate in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, we have an open debate. We had the presentation last week, we've had a week to discuss, we in SV have been recorded from both the trades, from the church and from many different instances during this week. It is important that we carry out distributions and get a debate, so that we can finally end the debate here in the United Kingdom. We should get more of this. This openness is what can be involved in legitimizing foreign policy, including in the people, to an even greater extent. That would be important for SV. We appreciate that the government is doing so smartly. To send soldiers and military units to other countries, it is so serious that it requires as much openness as possible about this type of activity. Hunter aircraft of the F-16 type have not been the main priority of the SV in strengthening the construction of Afghanistan. When it is now happening in ISAF context, it has been important for SV that ISAF has until the last winter been dependent on ‘Enduring Freedom’ when it spelled out possible flight support. This is no longer the case, and ISAF goes more on its own. In case of second-way support, from ISAF to OEF, it will only occur in a case of crisis and then regulated by a general medical agreement since 2003. In my opinion, this type of agreement should be public as much as possible. As we talk about allies, it might be possible to influence in that direction that it might be possible to make a reservation in whole or in part, whether they are not of such a nature that one can do well for them. It is an important commitment for me that in the long term the agreements also prove not to be in conflict with the Soria Moria declaration. Time will tell. But being able to make situational decisions in this kind of discussion is important. The fact that one should be able to affect both allies and others is important. ‘Enduring Freedom’ has for a long time secured airspace for the benefit of the operational functioning of ISAF. This has meant that the ISAF activity has gradually been made dependent on the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. Through this division of labour, ‘Enduring Freedom’ has won the legitimacy of NATO countries and organisations in relation to UN Security Council Resolution 1373 with follow-up resolutions. In general, this has helped to reinforce the idea that the OEF activity is mandated by the United Nations, which can at least be discussed. It is politically important to strengthen the ISAF ties to the UN through the Stabilisation Argument. The stronger ISAF can stand alone in Afghanistan, the stronger this argument becomes, and the shorter the path to a possible UN command over the long term force. And they're the ones who can think about it. Strengthening ISAF’s UN bands starts by releasing ISAF more from Enduring Freedom. The Norwegian F-16 aeroplanes should be considered as part of this and indicate that ISAF and OEF do not melt in clusters. This is one of the good reasons why we on SV's side can support sending hunting planes. SV will focus on the ISAF mandate and the defensive, stabilising role of ISAF. If anything else were to happen, we would have a political situation that would support our Afghanistan exposure in the long term would hang in a thinner thread. So, I mentioned that we received, at least in SV, the last week recordings from different organisations, for example. by the Afghanistan Committee, which states directly with its background in Afghanistan and long experience that it is important to cut ‘Enduring Freedom’, and now that ISAF is strengthened in a practical and political way, international law and the UN are also strengthened. It will help the process in Afghanistan in the right way, which is important and counterbalanced with US methods and attitudes to international law. And one must distinguish between the military and humanitarian activities of ISAF. This is one input that has come to us during this week. People with long experience in Afghanistan see that on the ground there is a need for security, security is needed. They're mostly only in Kabul, but they also have projects out in Afghanistan, and they see that if a farmer could go on the market with his goods, he depends on the safety of the ground, even in the provinces. That's why SV allows us to support the expansion of security in the northern regions as well. We have experience in Meymaneh. We know that we can also handle this in even larger areas beyond Mazar-e Sharif. The speech is clear: over the years we've been in Afghanistan, we've spent over $2 billion on military engagement. More than SEK 1.3 billion of this has gone to ‘Enduring Freedom’, 670 million. kr has gone to ISAF, and more than 225 million. kr has gone to overheads. For SV, there is no doubt that this can be interpreted as our military involvement in Afghanistan being greatly reduced. It's important. So what are we going to use these funds for? What are we going to use these solar data for? Well, of course, we're going on the United Nations track. There are also numbers completely clear, I mentioned it in a line exchange instead: we are at least minus 1,500 soldiers in the long run, and have been after we were at the top of the line for approx. 10 to 11 years ago. We can get back to that United Nations track if we want. I think the government will be able to do it over the next year, and at least start such a kind of process, so it's obvious that Norway is betting on the UN. At my discretion, we also make the wise choice that we don't bet as much as we've done so far, to clean up after the United States wars. I guess we have international law, we have the right track. It is discussed whether both ice and ideologies are nearly dead. Instead, we may have received two important things that are being punished as a basis in each country, and there are human rights and the good words in the Rule of Law. That is what we should, as far as possible, contribute to the creation of the Grobot in Afghanistan. If we can get to that, we can from SV's point of view agree that it's also going to be based on military engagement. I've been to Kabul myself, and I've been talking to our soldiers over there. They are proud of their efforts. I've seen what they've done, at least parts of it. But they have a ban on Norwegian politicians coming there: the work we are doing, and the investments we are doing now, it must be followed up with long-term assistance, and it must not least be followed up with long-term trade policies, which will allow Afghan farmers – and most in Afghanistan are actually employed within the agricultural industry – to get back on track. A little bit of discretion: I was in the last week myself and opened an ICA store. An organisation that is partly run by the Church's Emergency Aid and is called as much as the Development Trade Forum has taken the initiative to pick up goods directly from poor farmers, whether it's in Nicaragua, El Salvador or Asia, to sell the goods either on Karl Johan or for example. on ICA in Moldova. The ICA, Norway’s group, COOP, the three major food-trafficking companies in Norway, are involved. It creates a direct link between the poor farmer and the Norwegian consumer. It is in that area of trade policy that we can open up the market, give poor farmers room for their goods in our shops, and thus give them the opportunity to get an own outcome. It may be the most important contribution when we are trying to solve the basic problems in Afghanistan and other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e463	After just a few weeks in government, the Socialist Left Party has made it clear that the piece of art to demonstrate against its own government. Last week we learned that large parts of the party's big crowd were standing in front of Stortinget in front of the lawn and demonstrated against fighter planes. This that could initially look comical, not to say ridiculous, is far more serious than that. This sends out unclear signals in the world on very important foreign and security policy issues. I would therefore like to ask the representative Jacobsen whether there is no concern in the Socialist Left at all about the signals sent out to friends and allies through such actions. And further, does the representative Jacobsen agree with his party trap Hallgeir H. Langeland, who characterises Iraqis who are being trained in Norway to build their own country, like quislingers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e468	I didn't think any of the Iraqis who took part in the training at Jåttå in Stavanger could be calledquislings – so that's what they said. So to the question of the signals that we send to our allies. I think the signals that are now being sent to the world are very good. Morten Höglund has explained in a very good way in his previous article the problems facing the UN. And aren't we, the wealthiest country in the world, going to contribute and deploy resources there, to make the United Nations get better, who's going to do it? So it was about demonstrations outside here. In the last four years, I have been on demonstrations and markings many times, whatever it may be, of all sorts, and we as single representatives are quite free to do that. SV is behind what the Government has presented here in two installments, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and from the Minister of Defence. People have to be allowed to demonstrate, it's up to each one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e478	That's about. a week ago, SV’s defence policy spokesman, Bjørn Jacobsen, stated that Norway is unlikely to participate in joint EU or NATO operations, as all capacity will be used in UN missions. But what is demanded from the high - cost country of Norway is not the big quotas, see. Jacobsen's dream of 1500, but special skills and capabilities, which we have developed over the year as an integral part of NATO's overall capacity. The question is whether SV will oppose future Norwegian participation as part of joint NATO actions with the UN mandate. Or in another way: is it more important for SV with the colour of their helmets than that Norway actually contributes in contexts and with services that the United Nations needs and has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e483	Already before the summer, it was clear: not out of NATO, not into the EU. So it's good, as opposed to SV, it won't contradict this kind of international operation. But, as the Soria Moria Declaration says quite eloquently and clearly, it will be after the UN mandate and after international law. Then Vallersnes showed up for a look at the Evening Post. The evening post probably went a little long when one interprets it so that we'll be so busy in the United Nations that we won't have time for anything else. I don't think so. I think we want a wide range of international operations. But where we're really on the minus side right now, is on the United Nations. The previous government talked about the UN in all contexts, but never followed up on international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e490	If a claim is made multiple times enough, it can be displayed even if it is not correct. That's true of the claim that there's something completely new about this kind of deal with debate after there's a new openness line. I ask the representative Jacobsen to think back a little, he has been with and discussed the corresponding subject area after the corresponding arrangements. So there's going to be a wrong statement that Jacobsen's representative comes up with. So to another statement in the post to Jacobsen, a theme I also addressed in my reply to the committee's leader, that is, if "Enduring Freedom" has a solid UN mandate. Jacobsen actually expressed himself as if it were doubtful. This is what I'm going to do to both the representatives of the Government and the representatives of the government. Does Jacobsen think that there is no solid UN mandate for «Enduring Freedom»?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e497	I said that what the UN mandate can at least be discussed. The U.N. was in a slide, the U.N. is on its way to becoming a sand striker. In some cases, international law may also be watered down. And he's not being watered by anyone, but by one of our closest allies. Tony Blair just went on his first big defeat, last week; he wanted prisoners sitting for 90 days. We know that one with the Patriot Act is moving on some civil and civic bastions. We also move to international law. That is why I am saying that the United Nations mandate for 'Enduring Freedom' can at least be discussed. Jon Lilletun knows that I don't have the right to say what he said in 30 years' time – I can tell you what I said, but I have to wait 30 years before I can tell you what Jon Lilletun said – in all of the extended extracurricular benefits we had in the previous period. What is quite clear is that from SV's side we proposed many times and tried to get the issues discussed in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee up in this open room, and we failed many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e504	This means that the cord shift is over. The President would briefly point out that if there had been a representative from another party who had referred to the UN as a sand striker, it might have been called upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e509	I think it is entirely necessary for the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence to clarify whether they share the views of the representative Jacobsen on ‘Enduring Freedom’ and a United Nations mandate. The fact that one actually mentions the United Nations and UN bodies in relation to the case that the representative Jacobsen did here, means that we need to have a clarification on it. The leaders of the Committee did not clarify this, and I expect the Foreign Minister to make it clear that the mandate is in place. For it has been produced as a capacity change that one now enters ISAF to a greater extent and withdraws from ‘Enduring Freedom’. But the government hasn't said so far that it's because there's no UN mandate. That clarification must come, and I challenge the Foreign Minister to do so when he comes to the chair. I would then like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for the good results of the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. The reports show that the main lines of the Norwegian policy on foreign and security policy are firm and that there is a broad consensus on the Norwegian priorities for foreign policy. The overarching objective of Norwegian security policy is to prevent war and to prevent treason against Norway and collective security. Our policy is to promote peace, stability and a positive development of the international legal order. I am pleased that the Government will continue to anchor foreign and security policy in the UN Charter and international law, in NATO membership and in cooperation with our allies. As I see it, SV has two small buttonhole flowers left. These are the strategic changes in the forces of Iraq and the Enduring Freedom. When it concerns NATO membership, when it relates to the main lines, which it has been widely negotiated in foreign policy, it is actually the contents of the distributions of the Government's representatives. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that military efforts alone can never solve the challenges we face in e.g.: Afghanistan and Iraq. It is possible to win a war with military means, but one must invest in a broader field to win the peace. We see today that there are very fragile borders between crisis, conflict and peace. In order to achieve a long-term positive development in conflict areas, there is a need for a strategic and coordinated use of several instruments, including: development policy, humanitarian and political and security measures. Then it's important to distinguish between the different actors' tasks. As the UN Secretary-General has stated on several occasions, it is a major challenge today to meet the transition between war and lasting peace. It is in this transition that we often see the dilemma and the unclear roles of the military forces and humanitarian missions. We must meet this challenge with a political strategy, before a framework for conflict management. I am pleased that, in its distribution, the Foreign Minister stressed the need to distinguish between the mandate of military contributions and the mandate of humanitarian organisations. There is an important distinction to draw, but the situation is more complex than that. The emergence of complex humanitarian crises in recent years has made it necessary to reflect on the relationship between military forces and non-governmental humanitarian organisations. We therefore need a thorough assessment of the relationship between the military and the humanitarian, voluntary organisations. Both sides see the challenge, as the situation has developed, and I believe that both the defence and the voluntary organisations want a constructive debate and the arenas where one can reflect together, and get a better interaction in practice. Both actors are involved in peace and development in their own way, but we should be conscious of the different roles they have. In some conflicts it will be impossible to carry out humanitarian tasks without the assistance of the military. On the other hand, we should be generally cautious about using military forces to carry out humanitarian tasks. In the civil part of the stabilisation team in Meymaneh, Afghanistan, there is an aid counsellor and a police adviser. I think this may be an important measure, but it just shows the close link between the military and the humanitarian, without any further problems. The Christian People's Party has always been against the war in Iraq, but we have been busy helping the Iraqi people. They still experience a brutal everyday life, with conflict, terrorism, and unrest. Insecurity in Iraq is still so fundamental that military presence is entirely central. As the Foreign Minister pointed out in his statement, these attacks mainly affect the civilian population. The Christian People's Party shares the view of the Minister of Foreign Affairs that international society must stand up when it comes to both the security and the building of society in Iraq, and that Norway must take its share of responsibility. The international community has a responsibility to ensure peace and security in Iraq and respect for human rights. For me, it is somewhat contradictory when the Minister stresses that Norway should be involved in increasing security in Iraq, while we are withdrawing personnel from the multinational stabilisation force and the Norwegian involvement in the NATO training mission in Iraq will be terminated. I am pleased that Norway will continue to facilitate training in NATO's training centre on Jåttå. I am also pleased that SV has now changed its grip and see the value of Iraqi security personnel being trained in human rights and democracy. The Christian People's Party also notes that there are no changes for Norwegian military personnel serving in NATO's command structure. The Christian People's Party supports this. I want to make it clear that NATO is not involved in fighting in Iraq. Contributions to Iraq are concentrated on training, equipment and technical assistance. The aim is to help Iraq build its own capacity and address the security needs of the Iraqi people. The Foreign Minister mentioned the development of the petroleum sector in Iraq. The Christian People's Party agrees that Iraq will last for itself and that the development of the petroleum sector will then be central. On the other hand, we are not so sure that, at this stage, Norway should strengthen cooperation within the petroleum sector with Iraqi governance. The situation in the country is very unstable, and workers within the oil sector will need military protection against terror and violence. So the Christian People's Party is a little surprised that the Government will not contribute to military stabilisation in Iraq, but will develop a petroleum cooperation that in a conflict zone will depend on just a military security force. Norway has given priority to peace work in Afghanistan, and we must therefore be prepared when necessary. The Minister of Defence briefed that Norway will concentrate its contribution on ISAF to North Afghanistan, and that Norway will provide about 180 people with a rapid response. ISAF is NATO's security force with a UN mandate in Afghanistan. NATO plays a supporting role for the Afghan regime, and it is those who have the ownership of the process. The Christian People's Party is basically positive that Norway is increasing its support for Afghanistan further, because it is important that we succeed in stabilising society and that ISAF continues its extension. The security situation in Afghanistan has improved, but governance is still facing major challenges related to regional fighters and other regional groupings. NATO is not the only security agent acting in Afghanistan. In addition to ISAF, Operation Renewing Freedom is still active. ISAF and OEF coordinate their activities and exchange information. The Government will concentrate its efforts in Afghanistan on ISAF and has chosen to close the Norwegian OEC exposure during January 2006. The ISAF and the OEF have played their part, in each way, in overseeing the objectives of peace, stability and development in Afghanistan. The OEF's task is to fight remaining terrorist elements. Terrorist attacks on hotels in Amman and the link with Al Qaida illustrate the importance of this effort. Support from the OEF is also crucial for the continuation of ISAF with the extension of its western and southern operational area in Afghanistan. ISAF, on its side, is helping to create framework conditions that prevent terrorists and other hostile groups from getting footholds back in the regions. [[The President clubs.]] This shows that the two operations depend on each other. President, I had written too far today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e541	The President understands that this is happening sometimes. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e546	First: I mean to remember that also the Bondevik government terminates participation in Operation Enduring Freedom from 1 January. Then I will give the representative right in one thing, and that is that both Operation Enduring Freedom and the stabilisation force in Iraq are enshrined in international law. However, Norway does not, of course, participate in all UN mandated operations in the world. With regard to the operation in Iraq, it was in 2004 that the Storting was divided in the middle. Nevertheless, the Bondevik government chose to send staff officers to Iraq. Does the Christian People's Party believe that the Bondevik government here broke with a long tradition in the Stortinget, that participation in international operations should be broadly anchored in this house? And another question: the Christian People's Party has traditionally been very concerned with both the United Nations and Africa. Will the Christian People's Party now support the Government and the majority as we increase our involvement under UN command?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e555	It is quite right that the Christian People's Party has a long tradition of supporting the UN, and like its UN-led operations. That's why it was in that part of the script – it was glittering, the whole script – that I didn't get to say, that we are supporting a strengthening of the UN effort on the part of Norway. Now, UN efforts will also be to a large extent that the United Nations is actually asking for coordinated NATO operations on behalf of the United Nations. So here it's both of them. There is no one side to the path. So I would like to thank the representative Nybakk for now confirming what I have tried to achieve several times today, that Operation Enduring Freedom and the security forces in Iraq have a solid UN mandate. That was clarifying. I assume that she stuck it on behalf of the government party, so that we no longer need to have any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e562	The representative Lilletun may be able to use the last part of the script, if the next line fits in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e565	The representative Lilletun addressed the very important issue of the distinction between humanitarian and military action. We should keep the tab high so we don't go blind. One thing is that people out in areas where there's a lot of insecurity, mixes and misunderstands – who's a soldier today, and who's a helper the next day. Another thing is what happens in the OECD's DAK committee, where we see an ever-expanding of money use. We see that the defence and military interests are constantly going to steal from the $50 billion pocket chest of aid. In any case, the Christian People's Party and the former Minister for Development are to be honored. We're going to have to keep going up here. If we look at what is happening in Afghanistan, there is no doubt that ISAF is defensive, while the OEF is much more offensive. If we say that we have a limited capacity, isn't it a good idea to bet more on ISAF and withdraw from the OEF?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e573	First, I agree with the representative Jacobsen in, as I said, that a broad and good debate is needed on the relationship between military action and humanitarian action, they become more and more intertwined. It is an important debate. So if it's not a good idea to pull out of ‘Enduring Freedom’ and go into ISAF, because ISAF is defensive. If we look at this a little bit historically, at the time Enduring Freedom was established to replace the Taliban with a democratic government in Afghanistan, I'm not sure that defensive forces alone would have been enough. I actually think we had to use the sharp end. Therefore, it was necessary that one also go to work offensively. Then it's the side to stabilising the country that ISAF has got the important role it has. These two are working together, and it's also about merging them together. So difor: There was a need for a sharp end, and there is a need for a defensive end now in relation to ISAF.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e580	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e583	For 5 to 10 years, Norwegian citizens have made great efforts for peace and stability under the auspices of the UN, NATO and the rest of the world society. It is therefore important that Norway continues to make an effort to ensure that other countries and peoples can have peace, hope and a positive development. At Stortingen, there has been broad agreement on these broad lines of foreign policy. The Central Party is committed to Norway as an active contributor to international conflict resolution, remains a strong supporter of the UN and is a credible ally and contributor in NATO. The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are firmly established, including a strong recognition of international law, NATO membership, the EEA Agreement and the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU. The security policy situation in our part of the world has changed significantly. During the cold war, the tension between east and west was the dominant threat. Today, the challenges of security policy are more marked by regional instability, the risk of terrorist attacks, social unrest and internal armed conflicts in individual countries. The Central Party is working to make Norway an active contributor to international stability through active diplomacy, humanitarian aid and participation in peacekeeping operations. Both international solidarity, the fight against terrorism and Norwegian security considerations call for Norway to be an active partner in international crisis management. We need to build on and at the same time strengthen the competence that Norway has already developed in peacekeeping operations and that has as its main objective the stability and security of the civilian population. In order for Norway to be a clear peace nation, we need to strengthen Norway’s contribution to the prevention, mitigation and resolution of conflicts. Therefore, the Central Party believes that we need to step up the Norwegian civil and military participation in the UN peacekeeping work, with special emphasis on Africa. Sudan is first and foremost the country we have now turned our attention to. Participation in international operations shall be enshrined in the UN Charter and shall have a clear UN mandate. The UN is the only international body that can legitimize the use of power. It shall and must be a high threshold for the use of military power. Therefore, Norway should not participate in the preparation for actions not authorised by the United Nations. In accordance with the statement of Soria Moria, the Red-Green Government has decided to withdraw Norwegian officers from the NATO training mission in Iraq. At the same time, the Government and the Centre are committed to giving high priority to international operations through NATO. As a consequence, it is natural now to increase the involvement with ISAF. This is a very clear expression of our solidarity with NATO cooperation. In addition, we will increase our contribution to the UN. The NATO force in Afghanistan is expanding its presence to more unstable areas. Therefore, the need to ensure the security of the forces increases. Air support plays an important role in NATO's strength protection in Afghanistan. In the same way as US-led coalition aeroplanes, the Enduring Freedom operation, may assist NATO forces in emergencies, NATO aircraft may be requested to support coalition forces in the same situation. But this – and I underline it – is exceptional events, and the planes will in any case remain under NATO command. It is important that Norway participates with staff officers in the ISAF command structure. This will ensure that aeroplanes do not undertake missions contrary to the mandate of ISAF. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Central Party is concerned that Norway remains a credible ally and contributes to UN and NATO operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e607	The representative Samuelsen said very much positively, I think. He said that it is important that we are a credible ally in NATO. He also said that we should be a credible contributor to stability. All of this I think is very good. But I want to follow up on a question that has been asked earlier here today to SV. I would also like to ask the Central Party a little bit about this: when the Central Party sees SV's defence-political spokesman and other prominent SV representatives, here in the Chamber and outside, stand outside and demonstrate against their own government, and see what they really stand for, does Samuelsen – according to what he has mentioned here – find it particularly comfortable to sit in a government with representatives from a party who have such views? What kind of signals does the Center Party and Samuelsen think this is sending out to just what he's talking about: a credible, ally NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e614	For me, it was important to clarify the central party's position and what I see as a clear message from the government about where we stand. In any democratic process, there will always be some who do not fully agree with the decisions being taken. Sometimes what we saw outside of the Storting can be determined; sometimes the opposites of interest and conflicts take place internally in the parties. I want to express my opinion that this is a matter which primarily needs to clean up and clear up, but I stress that the Government's position in this matter is very clear, and the Central Party supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e619	That was an affordable, clear answer. This must mean that we are not going to experience the Center Party in the role both for and against its own government. If the centre party were to stay in the lawn, it would have been for that party to stay on the ground, and it might have been even more special. But my question relates to another point, namely the very strong emphasis that there must be an explicit UN mandate in any case if Norway is to participate in international operations. Does this mean that the Central Party now believes that participation in Kosovo in its time should not have taken place? A number of other examples could be calculated if you go further back in history, but my question is: Are you really serious about the fact that in the situations where the UN Security Council is paralyzed — it is known from time to time — Norway should also be part of the paralysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e626	I can reassure the last speaker that the Center Party normally has its work tasks on the ground in many cases, but in this case we shall avoid being on the ground. In the case of Kosovo, it represented a special situation. I expressed what is the central party's position in principle. But if you have a principled attitude, it can't solve all of life's deformities. So we also have to be free to consider if we experience situations that are not within the principle attitude. But our main attitude is clinkingly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e633	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e636	The left joins the Foreign Minister's presentation and the prospects drawn up, and we broadly agree with the Foreign Minister's conclusion that Norway will continue to support the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan and Iraq. The left also agrees with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he stresses that military efforts themselves will never be sufficient to resolve the kind of conflicts we see in Afghanistan and Iraq. Furthermore, we are very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is inviting Norway to make the most of its contribution to international operations in civil and military matters. The situation in Iraq is still very unstable. Despite the considerable military resources now deployed, the situation in parts of the country cannot be said to be under control. The path to increased stability goes through a political process based on democratic values. This is a process for which the world community has a joint responsibility to succeed, and the basis is found in Security Council Resolution 1546. Now we need to concentrate on the measures that can help rebuild the community in Iraq. Firstly, we must contribute to improved security and stability in all parts of the country. We have no positive development in Iraq without increased security. Secondly, we must strengthen the democratic political process. We have no broad and stable development in the country without strengthened legitimacy for the Iraqi regime. Thirdly, we must facilitate and establish framework conditions for the economic development of the country. The reconstruction and revitalisation of the economy is also a prerequisite for positive development in Iraq, and with its natural resources, the country is well placed to cope in the long term without international development assistance. The UN has said that the world community must take its share of the responsibility for building Iraq. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Norway must in the long term contribute to Iraq's self-sufficiency. The petroleum industry is cited as an example of Norway’s special prerequisites for contributing. What will the Foreign Minister do in the short term? The frequent and devastating attacks by the rebel forces also have destabilising effects in the country. The international community must be clear about taking away from these attacks. The left will stress that we must also support the Iraqis in their efforts to gain control and control in their own country. It is appropriate to praise the efforts of Norwegian voluntary aid organisations in Iraq. Norwegian People's Aid operates democracy projects and mine clearance in Northern Iraq. The Church's Emergency Aid, Save Children, Red Cross and Tromsø Mining Damage Centre are among the organisations that have received support for projects in areas such as health, aid for refugees, water supply, sanitary conditions and mine clearance. From the Norwegian side, it has to be made clear that international cooperation and dialogue are the way to go. On a case-by-case basis, in the view of the Left, alliances will not contribute to an improved situation in Afghanistan and Iraq. To the extent that Norway can help to promote this, we need to make use of the opportunity to do so. Developments are in the direction of the fact that the Afghans themselves are increasingly taking responsibility for security in their own country. This is the result of the systematic training of Afghan military security forces and police in recent years. One of the main challenges will be to strengthen central government authority and control in the provinces. This is a prerequisite for reducing the power of local warlords and for succeeding in combating increasing drug production. The Left agrees with the assessment that continued active support and participation from the international community is a prerequisite for the success of achieving lasting stability in Afghanistan. It is therefore important that allied countries follow up NATO decisions by contributing to the presence of ISAF in the provinces. The left supports the fact that the Government is making an adjustment to our future presence in Afghanistan. Norway will thus make a direct contribution to the stability of the northern region together with several other allies and Nordic countries, including Norway. Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden. The request from NATO for three to four F-16 aeroplanes for three months must therefore be seen in view of the need for increased air support for the work of ISAF in the provinces. For the Left, it has always been important to attach great importance to further developing and strengthening international law and the role of the United Nations, among others. by contributing to the strengthening of the United Nations’ capacity for crisis management. It is important that we in Norway can contribute to the creation of a more stable world. By showing the will and ability to contribute to this kind of work, we also strengthen our own role and importance internationally. For the Left, it is also important for Norway to retain full national decision-making authority as regards the operations in which Norwegian forces are to participate. Consequently, it will not be a question of transferring neither formal nor real decision-making powers nor military efforts to an organisation of which we are not a member. It will be an indispensable condition for participation that the operations are firmly anchored in international law. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave us assurances that these matters are well taken care of, and the Left supports the Government's decision to continue and strengthen participation in ISAF. The Left further wants a stronger international commitment to the Defence. Norwegian policy must not just involve itself in the conflicts that attract the attention of the major powers. We will give priority to operations where the humanitarian need is greatest. In recent years, Norwegian participation in UN operations has fallen. The left wants to reverse this trend. For the Left, a UN mandate is a clear rule for international operations. Therefore, NATO must also be very restrictive in initiating peace-building operations outside the territories of NATO in the absence of a UN mandate. Military intervention without a UN mandate can only be supported in the most extreme cases where one can prevent ethnic cleansing and genocide. Such a situation justified NATO's action in Kosovo in 1999. The left is therefore behind the ambitions of the Minister of Defence and the Government to increase UN-led operations. For the Left, it is a fundamental principle that all exceptional military operations that go beyond the right to self-defence must have a mandate from the UN Security Council. In the light of the new conflict picture, there is a need to improve the security and access of vulnerable groups to the UN and humanitarian organisations. This is primarily a responsibility for the parties to a conflict, but there is also a need for international policy measures to ensure the legitimacy and integrity of humanitarian aid. I find it strange to witness SV's conduct in the case of the use of Norwegian F-16 aircraft in Afghanistan. When prominent big business politicians and central government members in SV are involved and demonstrate against their own government, they also cast doubt on the government's policy. I assume that the largest and most responsible party in the government is taking the necessary action and assures Stortinget that Norwegian foreign policy for the future will be based on accountability and predictability. We cannot have a situation in which the Government's foreign policy ends up as a victim of random protests in which parts of the Government's parliamentary basis are involved. The SV's behaviour further gives reason to believe that the government does not have an aggregate pool of SV behind it in this case. It is therefore natural to ask whether the Government in its foreign policy has support throughout the SV Group, or whether the Government in the future must address the opposition in order to have a majority in its policy. Norwegian foreign policy has been largely characterised by consensus. The left believes that this is important in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e683	The 2005-2009 Green Paper of the Left reads as follows: ‘In recent years, Norwegian participation in UN operations has fallen. The left will reverse this development. For the Left, a United Nations mandate is a clear general rule for international operations.’ Does that mean that the Left joins the Stoltenberg government's priorities of the UN, which must be said to be an escalation compared to the previous government, of which the Left was part?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e693	Thank you for the question. The left will support the UN. And as I said in my post, we will join, as in the previous government, and support this government in stepping up its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e700	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e703	I would first like to thank you for the input and evaluations that have been made in today's debate. The government wanted to make an open presentation because we believe these are issues that belong in the open political debate, in the open debate on society and therefore in the open debate on big business. The government will from time to time need to seek advice from the Stortinget with a high level of confidentiality, but the question should always be asked if the matter cannot be dealt with openly. A lot of things can. And the question of how we establish our international commitment is among them. I am also pleased that a broad majority in this Chamber supports the main line of government policy. In this way, I would like to make my summary by the representative Jon Lilletuns and by the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen. Their description, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, confirms that this majority is still wide, and I would like to add: perhaps the majority of the main lines are wider than before, by all parties in this room now supporting our significant NATO exposure. The main line is about the willingness and ability to take responsibility and will and ability to contribute with our friends and allies. It is about the willingness to contribute to the promotion of peace and development. It is about anchoring the use of military personnel in international operations in a clear UN mandate, and that our efforts are to take place within the framework of the UN and NATO. And it's about the ability and the will to focus the effort. The government has a clear message here. Our priority today is to support and contribute to ISAF in Afghanistan and to prepare for future operations in Africa as well. So I noticed that from some teams there is criticism of the withdrawal of the last staff officers in Iraq, and that Norway chooses to focus its efforts in Afghanistan by investing in ISAF and consequently terminates the contribution to Operation Renewing Freedom at the next turn. I respect these points of view, and I think they have come up well. However, let me make some comments. It is good to have critical notes on the device of our efforts. But it gets a little weird when the estimate in this criticism here at home assumes completely different proportions compared to the reviews we get from our friends and allies out there. It is not entirely right when representatives here at home make it a marked shift in Norwegian security policy, as a breach – that we almost fail our allies – when we hear nothing of this in conversations with leading representatives of the UN, NATO and our allies. In my opinion, it is somewhat thoughtful that Norwegian political representatives choose to stress that Norway is now on the verge of becoming friendless and becoming unfaithful to its allies, or suggests that withdrawal of Norwegian staff officers from Iraq could help to weaken support for the Norwegian fisheries protection zone around Svalbard. It's a dry piece, in my opinion. I'm saying it this way, because in the last month I've spent a lot of time talking about this. Well, with friends and allies there may also be shades and different views on our decisions. After all, we are cooperating with democratic states where we can live with the discussion. However, the main message is clear: Norway is perceived as an ally who takes great responsibility, who contributes with high-quality personnel and makes a significant contribution to financial resources and political commitment. I would like to remind you that Norway has 400 women and men in Afghanistan, and that this number may increase. It is a very high number — compared with other countries. On the issue of keeping staff officers in Iraq, I recognise that this is about honesty. This is not a cover-up, but it is actually both possible and fully responsible to think for yourself. It can't be that a good ally must think the same in all cases. Norway did not support the invasion of Iraq. We make it clear that we want to set up to support the reconstruction and development of the country in the short and long term. But at the same time, we say -- like a number of other NATO countries do -- that we don't have troops. In my presentation, I stressed that military efforts alone cannot create peace and development. I am grateful that several of the representatives have followed up those reflections. What gives hope is that people can feel security, so that they can create a future for themselves and theirs. Military efforts may be necessary to create security. However, creating hope for the future requires political courage and economic and social action. Many of the conflicts that call for military action have a direct or indirect link to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. Keyword for this conflict is just a lack of security for the Israelis and a lack of hope for the future for the Palestinians. This will still be the case, if we do not do what we can to help the peace process get out of the deadlock. I mention this because we often have a debate on our participation in Iraq and in Afghanistan down to the last number of officers or soldiers, while this is talking about broader links and linking the conflicts in both countries with the broader Middle East issue and the major issues of conflict in our time. That was what I talked about yesterday and yesterday with Palestinian and Israeli leaders in Jerusalem and Ramallah. Fear of new terrorist attacks is in the backbone of Israel. It's easy to understand. At the same time, for every new suicide bomb that spreads death and destruction among civilians, the hope of a better future for the Palestinian population is weakened. Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza created hope for many Palestinians – the hope of being mastered in one of the rooms of their own house, the hope of commerce, incomes, jobs and social protection. For the time being, this hope has been put to shame. The so - called Quartet Special Envoy, James Wolfensohn, today describes Gaza as a large prison. An agreement on border crossing out of Gaza to Egypt may be imminent. Without such an agreement, the Palestinians may not send their goods to the markets in which they can provide income. It's urgent, because the harvest is right around the corner. In an economic sense, it is even more important to ensure relief at the border between Gaza and Israel. At the same time, new Israeli settlements on the West Bank and the extension of the wall contribute to making progress in the wrong direction. In the coming months, new progress will be particularly demanding. Elections shall be held in Palestinian territories on 25 January. Change of leadership in the Israeli Workers' Party opens up to push the new elections in Israel, perhaps until March. This means that in both camps there will be a focus on internal positioning and little willingness to seek solutions along a medium-term path. Then we're back at the starting point. In order for people to believe in the way of peace, they must experience that there are results to bet on peace, that one gets back by giving, that there is more and no less opportunity to work, study, trade, get access to health and to exchange ideas – to see what all people want everywhere, that the next generation can get a better starting point than our own. The Government reaffirms its commitment to prioritizing support for the Middle East peace process. This is true when we also discuss the device of our military involvement in international operations. With the consent of Storting, we propose to increase support to the Palestinian authorities by 10 million. $70 million in total. 2005 dollar. As head of the donor country group, the so-called AHLC, we want to facilitate an informal meeting between 13 and 14. December of this year. We have told the parties that we are available to assist them – formally and informally – in their efforts to bring the peace process forward. I would add that the commitment we have in the Middle East is also at the points of conversation when we discuss with our allies, when we discuss in NATO and in the UN what contribution we can make to bringing peace not only to this region but also to the people who live in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is still interesting to hear representatives of this region say that the images that cause unrest in areas throughout the Middle East are not primarily the pictures from Iraq – they are still the pictures from Palestine. Therefore, these developments are closely linked. Norway wants to contribute across the board, while focusing on the efforts we have in terms of our military men and women in uniform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e745	It was interesting that the Foreign Minister chose to emphasize Israel and Palestine so strongly in his speech. There were many interesting points of view. Increased financial support for the Palestinian authorities and contributions to peace will probably give us the opportunity to discuss later. I want to go back to the presentation and to a question that I raised in my post that I felt was not answered. This applies to the following: ‘Norwegian military engagement shall be enshrined in the United Nations Charter and shall have a clear UN mandate.’;» [[...]] Then I raised the question of Kosovo and the situation we experienced there, where the Storting – despite UN disagreement – chose to do something in cooperation with our allies, on behalf of a threatened population group. In a parallel situation, will we have the opportunity to do that, as the government has now chosen to formulate itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e757	It is right that the Government, both in its platform and in the Soria Moria declaration, makes it quite clear, as various representatives of other parties say, that Norwegian participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Charter and have a clear UN mandate. With regard to Kosovo, I find it difficult to discuss a conflict that was earlier, put into a hypothetical perspective on what we will do in the future. It is an important message from Norway that we stress the importance of a United Nations mandate. I believe that the military operation in Iraq suffered significant weaknesses because it did not, and we are living with some of the consequences today. I have also noticed that there was a broad majority behind the decision taken on Kosovo. The size is sovereign to take decisions based on the situation facing Norway and the world. But the message from this government is to emphasise the importance of the UN mandate. Then we will deal with the conflicts and situations that may arise, and possibly call for Norwegian assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e766	I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is still trying to conceal the choices that have actually been made, and the fact that there have been changes in Norwegian security policy as a result of the fact that the opposition to the former Norwegian security policy is actually in government today. I registered that at Soria Moria, SV's management itself believed that they had gained significant impact in the security policy, exemplified by the withdrawal of Operation Enduring Freedom. I have a couple of concrete questions about this. First of all, it is such that questions have now been asked at the UN mandate to Operation Enduring Freedom. I hope the Foreign Minister can confirm that it is Norway's position that Operation Enduring Freedom has a clear UN mandate, and that the entire Government actually supports the work behind Operation Enduring Freedom. My second question relates to whether there are only practical purposes to shift the effort. If ISAF then takes over all the operations within what Operation Enduring Freedom has today, will we have to protect ourselves against some of them because we do not have the capacity to solve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e775	If I had more than 1 minute's speaking time now, I would like to help remove the impression that we're veiling. I clearly say in my reply today that there are different views in some areas. We're honest about how we view this. I'd like to go on with that discussion. I would also like to be quite clear that Operation Enduring Freedom has a clear UN mandate. There's no doubt about it. With regard to Norway's decision to concentrate our efforts, it is because, in our platform too, we attach great importance to Norway's military involvement in international operations having a UN mandate and, as a general rule, they are to take place within the framework of the UN or NATO. Operation Enduring Freedom is a coalition of will, led by the United States. It has a UN mandate. However, Norway cannot be involved in all operations with a UN mandate. There's a lot of them. We have chosen to prioritize bringing together our efforts, which I believe is a wise disposition of the resources. That's one reason. I would also like to emphasise the importance of this being within an operation led by NATO, where we are in the decision-making system and can be involved and influence how that operation will develop further, even if it is to be seen in a closer context with Operation Renewing Freedom in the near or distant future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e783	It might have been interesting to go into the last part of the foreign minister's posts on Palestine and Israel, but we'll get back to that. It's a huge task, and both people, after a long time, have a different situation than the one they have today. I mention in my speech, and I would challenge the Foreign Minister, that when one wants to strengthen cooperation in the petroleum sector, if one goes badly into it, does not the Foreign Minister see that there may be a conflict area compared to that one then probably needs help from stabilisation forces or other forces? In that case, a tying must be done to American forces. Then I am glad that the Foreign Minister now made it clear that there was a UN mandate, so that the previous government's policy in this area had solid support in the Stortinget. One now makes a change in strengths based on practical circumstances, rather than assuming that there is no UN mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e792	In the case of aid to the petroleum sector, it has been shown that it is an area in which Norway has competence. It's not like we're looking at ourselves, when we say it that way, that at first there are Norwegian companies going in, and then we're going to need support from American forces. We are also talking about reforms of the Iraqi petroleum management, the Iraqi petroleum systems. There is a type of assistance Norway is now providing access to a wide range of countries in all parts of the world. These are the experiences we have from the Oil Directorate, environmental legislation, etc. That's essentially the kind of track we've been thinking about. Then I can confirm the representative's assessment of our emphasis on ISAF. But I would also like to stress the importance of participating here in an operation that is NATO-led, and Norway is a full member and has insight into both planning, implementation and future scenarios of how that force will operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e799	I have great respect for the desire of the Government and the Foreign Minister for transparency. We also want transparency related to the rationale. And when one chooses to withdraw from ‘Enduring Freedom’ and withdraw officers from Iraq, and at the same time says that one will look at how Norway can best contribute to stabilisation, there is an evaluation of Norway’s participation in ‘Enduring Freedom’ with officers in Iraq who show that this has not worked, this has not been good. We have not registered and seen such an assessment by the Government. On the other hand, between the government parties, we have recorded a violent debate and the emphasis the United Nations should have on the importance of our role in the United States. But we have not seen the reasons for the situation in Afghanistan and Iraq related to these operations. Will the Foreign Minister say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e808	I would like to repeat what I said in my speech in relation to Iraq: we believe it is a right line of Norway to contribute to the civil reconstruction of Iraq. We can also have Norwegian staff who are NATO-seconded, in Iraq, and we are willing to contribute significantly in terms of both training, development and assistance to Iraq. With regard to Afghanistan — evaluation: what we note in talks with NATO and allies is that there is a trend towards a stronger focus on ISAF. ISAF extends its geographical mandate, its area of operation, and the Government has taken the view that it is mainly on this track that the international community will have its main task of supporting the new democracy in Afghanistan. So we've chosen to channel and focus support along the track we think has the most promising future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e815	I think the line chord change has been elucidating. We have been told that, in the opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Operation Enduring Freedom has a clear UN mandate, and we have been given the principles that there should be a UN mandate that is the basis for participation. It has also been clarified that the background to withdrawing from Operation Enduring Freedom and entering ISAF is the management issue, i.e. that you do not want Norwegian forces involved in an operation with the United Nations mandate led by the Americans. That's what we've been trying to get the Government to confirm, and that's what the Foreign Minister has actually confirmed. But based on the principles that are now underpinned by Operation Renewing Freedom, the question is: why does the government withdraw from the Iraq operation, which from New Year becomes a NATO-led operation? If you were to follow the same logic, you should just stay in this area, because from New Year's Eve it has become a NATO-led operation, which the previous government wanted to continue. The context of what is now done in foreign policy is not apparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e822	The context in a complicated world is not always obvious. I can agree to that. But I am pleased that Solberg's representative is pleased that the change of words may have been elucidating. As far as ISAF is concerned, I would like to add a justification here, namely the importance of focusing, the importance of investing in an area where we have been and we see a future, perhaps the main future of international military presence, and not least that we are entering into a NATO-led operation where we are. Neither are we participating in all UN operations in the world. We don't participate in all NATO operations either, because we have to focus. I believe that there is reason for reflection and perhaps concern that too much capacity has been drawn out of the Balkans, a region that has now been pushed back a little, because we have got the whole challenge from Afghanistan and Iraq. And then we have Africa coming. So it is that there is a lack of resources in general to support during important peace processes. Kosovo is thus one case. But we must focus as a small country, and I think we have made a good choice when we have invested in ISAF in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e831	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e834	Initially, I just want to mention that despite the fact that I disagree with the representative Jacobsen from SV in almost everything in terms of defence and foreign policy, I think it was very positive that he mentioned the openness of such debates we have today, that they should not just take place in the hidden room. But as I said, that's pretty much the only thing I agree with Jacobsen. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government believes that participation in military operations abroad is an integral and important part of Norwegian security and defence policy. We are concerned that Norway must support our allies and be positive to commitment where it is desirable. At the same time, however, it is important for Norway to maintain its own position as a port. It is vital that we ensure our presence in our own neighbourhoods, not least in the northern regions. The Progress Party sees clear links between the education and activities that take place in the Defence at home and the international missions that we participate in. Therefore, it is very important that our soldiers have material and competence that enables them to carry out the tasks they are assigned to. The government proposes that in 2006 we maintain at least the same level of Norwegian military participation out there as today. In order for Norway to be able to engage in foreign operations, it is important that the financing of these tasks does not go beyond the economy of the Defence. We are therefore committed to financing such a task independently of the operations of the Defence Department. When it comes to increasing involvement in UN-led operations, it is important to remember the actual limiting factors, such as crews, material and economics. The defense has too much resources to sustain our present presence in North Norway. How, then, will it be possible to finance an investment in further foreign operations? The Progress Party has noted that the Government will send three-four F-16 aircraft to Afghanistan for a three-month period in the spring of 2006 and that the aeroplanes will be part of a Dutch-led department. The Party welcomes this response from the NATO request for increased need for air support as a result of the ISAF extension of the mission to more and more provinces. The propulsion party agrees that the purpose is to ensure the access of the ISAF team to fighter aircraft which can demonstrate presence and, if necessary, provide support from the air if critical ground situations arise. We would like to underline the importance of aircraft under ISAF's command in emergency situations being asked to assist ground personnel from Operation Enduring Freedom. We understand that this may be relevant in very special cases, where the personnel of Operation Enduring Freedom are under attack or otherwise in a crisis situation, and that these are established practices when more than one military operation is conducted in an area, that they regulate the relationship between themselves in an agreement. It is therefore reassuring to know that the commanders of the two operations will be able to request each other’s support. The Progress Party is pleased that Norway’s F-16 contribution is of such a nature that, if necessary, targets can be taken both in the air and on the ground, when we know that the US forces often need bombing capacity in connection with armed resistance during Operation Enduring Freedom and that this is increasingly relevant to the ISAF forces. We are aware that the situation in Afghanistan is characterised by demanding safety assumptions, difficult topographical and climatic conditions, and poor infrastructure. That is why we are concerned that the forces sent to Afghanistan are well trained and properly equipped so that they can carry out their tasks in an appropriate and good manner under the difficult conditions of the country. In this context, we regret that the Government is withdrawing our involvement in Operation Renewing Freedom. Norway has contributed expertise that has been sought by our allies. These have been strengths of such a nature and capacity that they are of vital importance to the progress of the operational implementation. Drawing these forces out is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, an incorrect signal to give our closest allies. The situation in Iraq is marked by unrest and almost illegal conditions in parts of the country. The Progress Party therefore considers it very strange and unfortunate that Norway should end its Norwegian involvement in the NATO training mission in Iraq. This commitment is to train security and police in Iraq, precisely in order to strengthen their own resources and forces in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e855	There has been a debate on the broad consensus in Norwegian foreign policy. After hearing the two presentations, it can at least be said that the vast majority of things relating to Afghanistan and Iraq express broad Norwegian consensus. I've allowed myself to use the word "endurance" from the previous government – but then the foreign minister reacted so emotionally that on another occasion I'm going to try to find a better expression than that, but that's the reality. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs said about the Middle East is also excellent. But there are two important exceptions. It's Operation Enduring Freedom and it's NATO's training mission in Iraq. I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs doesn't want to get into it. But it's more important than that. I have, after all, lived with SV's foreign policy for four years here in the Chamber and know that these two areas, more than very many others, have just been the battlefield where SV has to a very large extent drawn the relationship with our allies. I have done that too, but in many ways it has been the symbols and realities associated with this. I've put great emphasis on having a good relationship within the alliance and over the Atlantic. I get respect that SV disagrees with that, but I have had four years of hard drive for it. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs should not be surprised that when SV gets an impact on its positions, we ask the question, Why do they get an impact on their positions? That's when the government's transparency line stops, because you don't say anything about what the reason is. Openness doesn't just mean talking, you have to say something, and it doesn't do it in this context. That is why it is interesting when the chairman of the Committee says that this does not mean any conversion of Norwegian foreign policy, it is a purely practical attitude on the part of the Government. It's very good, if it's now also become SV's real argument when they get an impact on their positions. If that's right, there's also every reason to give recognition to the Workers' Party, if they've been able to turn SV in this important area. I must say very clearly that it is important to have broad consensus in Norwegian foreign policy. It is not reassuring for us to have a government where SV is a member, and therefore it is an important prerequisite for consensus in Norwegian foreign policy that the Workers' Party is able to park SV. In the case of ‘Enduring Freedom’, a few follow-up questions need to be addressed. One is: is it that SV's reason is now aside – that the problem is not that it is American-led, nor the mission it should have? I think the government should be clear about answering that, and you should also answer what you want to do if you talk about combining the two. Would you like to have an opinion on what the mission itself is going to be, or would it be an association of the two missions – which is also in order? The government must clear that up. With regard to Iraq, I think what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says is good – that the international community needs to set up both in terms of security and reconstruction, and that Norway is ready to take part in the task. But then the question is, are we? We pull out and reduce – don't change devices, as the Foreign Minister says; that's not what you do. The draft budget by the new government is completely different, just so it's clear. But what are you really doing instead of what you're taking out? In this area, too, there are uncertainties. Here the government entangles itself in this difference very many are concerned about – that we can operate on Yåttå, but we can't operate within Iraq. So the question is, what in every day is the logical context in that it's all right to help with security on Yåttå, but not within Iraq? There's no such relationship. This was simply the left-hand side of Europe needed when they did not have the power to fight completely against what was so obviously right because it was the UN mandate. But you draw the ambiguities of the left-hand side into this area, and so there's no logical reason in what the government is doing. They have said yes to the SV position, and so far they did it before they came to Soria Moria. But everyone who remembers the decision-making process around the Central Government Assembly of the Workers Party will know that it was a strange leap from being for 150 engineers in Basra to suddenly becoming opposed to NATO training in Iraq. It was not related to what the Central Government of the Workers Party did at that time. That's why there's no reason either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e881	Afghanistan's history is filled with war and unrest. Afghanistan entered my consciousness when the Soviet Union attacked the country at Christmastime in 1979. But even for one of the superpowers of the cold war, this country was easy to control. The result was that after ten years of occupation, the Soviet troops withdrew from the country. A few years after the Soviet troops withdrew, the Communist regime collapsed in Kabul. The road was open to disputes between different fractions of the resistance movement and ended with the Taliban regime taking control of the country in 1996. It was only after the attacks in New York on 11 September 2001 that the Taliban fell. The regime allowed Osama bin Laden to be a guest and stay in the country, and this at a time when the United States was no longer in doubt about who had the main responsibility for the attack at the World Trade Center. In late 2001, at a conference in Bonn, Germany, a political basis for the political reconstruction of Afghanistan was established. This process then formed the basis for the presidential elections in October 2004, when Hamid Karzai became Afghanistan's first democratically elected president. And so in September this year, the National Assembly was elected. If we look at it a little bit overall, Afghanistan's development is very positive. In almost ten years, Afghanistan has gone from being ruled by the fundamentalist Taliban regime to being run by a elected president with the support of a democratic national assembly. This political transformation of Afghanistan has contributed to – not just militarily. Norway has also contributed with assistance, and overall assistance to Afghanistan is about 300 million. kr in year. I believe, however, that even if some political milestones are achieved, it is important that we do not step out too early. Hardly anything would likely be more harmful to Afghanistan's development than if we and our partners did not last. Norwegian defence has shown, through its efforts in Afghanistan, that the development of defence has come a long way. The conversion of the Defense has had a direction that makes it possible for us today to have military involvement abroad. Today, in the Defence Department, a foreign stationing and mission abroad can be seen as a natural part of your own career, and as a natural part of Norwegian defence and security policy. Let me stress that there are no changes in the requirements for Norwegian participation abroad, which is that all operations should be carried out according to the mandate of the operations and our international obligations. The priority of the ISAF operation as the main field of action for Norwegian military intervention abroad in the near future will be the manifestation of three key defence and foreign policy issues: Norway's willingness to stand by the commitments of Afghanistan our willingness to take part in NATO's commitments our willingness to support the work of the United Nations If I'm going to sum up, I'll call it an effort in the service of peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e912	Let me first of all thank the Councils for good and thorough explanations. I am pleased to record that the lines of foreign and security policy are solid. The policy of the Bondevik II Government is being pursued to a large extent. We in the Christian People's Party are happy for that. There is broad agreement on the criteria for Norwegian participation in international operations. For Storting it has been important to have a framework for which international operations by Norwegian soldiers may be involved. The Christian People's Party is pleased that these security challenges can find their solutions within the principles of the UN Charter. Norway's participation must be based on both the legality of international law and the legitimacy of the people. Norway shall not participate in preventive warfare and pre-emptive attacks, which do not have a clear anchor in international law. These are fundamental and indispensable principles of the Christian People's Party. As regards Norway's involvement in Afghanistan, the Christian People's Party supports the government's policy. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field of action for the past few years, and this priority is firmly established. Through our contributions to ISAF, we actively support NATO's involvement in the country, which is a broad political uprising both in NATO and here at home. The special strength contribution to the American-led Operation Enduring Freedom ends in January, after a six-month commitment. In addition, Norway will offer three to four F-16 fighter aeroplanes to ISAF for a period of three months in 2006. It has been problematic about whether these fighter aircraft will have to ‘help’ the Americans. It is, as the Minister of Defence has said, established practice when a military operation is being conducted in the area, that these are regulated in relation to an agreement concluded between the two parties. Aeroplanes under the ISAF command could be asked to assist ground personnel from the OEF in emergency situations. This scheme is based on a 2003 general agreement on mutual assistance between ISAF and Operation Renewing Freedom. The opposition to this seems to be based on an opinion of the OEF as an illegitimate operation. It is good that this has been clarified by the government in the debate. It is only the SV who are still alone in questioning this UN legitimacy. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government will continue to contribute to increased security and reconstruction of Iraq. It's important that we take our share of that responsibility. In the case of international military operations in Iraq, the Bondevik government decided that the Norwegian contribution of staff officers should be terminated for Christmas in order to prioritise NATO training operations. We record that the new government is following the winding-up, but not the follow-up. The Christian People's Party believes it is unwise for the Government to terminate Norwegian involvement in NATO's training mission because these are intended to help enable the Iraqi security forces to secure security in their own country. NATO has no controversial role, nor does it have a consultative role in fighting. The role of the Alliance in the work on stability in Iraq is limited to the training and guidance of Iraqi senior officers. The aim is for the forces to acquire knowledge and use methods that are both appropriate, effective and not least acceptable in the context of human rights. This is an operation which a unanimous NATO decided to set up, based on a clear mandate under international law from the UN following the invitation of the Iraqi authorities. All allies support the mission. This is important, both to put behind the Iraq crisis and to demonstrate cohesion in the alliance. This has been a great success. Iraqi authorities are very concerned about the continuation of the NATO training mission in Iraq. Finally, for the Christian People's Party, consideration for the local population in Iraq is more important than consideration for symbols and markers. Increased security and reconstruction of Iraq is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e933	As demonstrated by the presentations last week, the Government will continue its military involvement in operations abroad at least at the same level as today — primarily within the framework of NATO and the United Nations. We will step up the Norwegian military participation in UN-led operations with special focus on Africa. The UN is currently conducting 18 operations involving 70,000 staff in four parts of the world and is therefore facing a wide range of challenges. In close dialogue with the United Nations, the Government will seek to identify relevant areas of intervention, where Norwegian military capabilities and competences can be exploited in the best possible way and with the best possible effect. Military intervention areas for Norwegian forces could span the entire spectrum, from increased participation with observers and staff to participation with more specialised units. In close cooperation with other nations, smaller effort forces can also be current contributions. The increase in Norwegian military contributions to UN-led operations will have to take place over time. As a first step in this process, we will increase our participation with staff officers and observers in Sudan. The government wants to take a new initiative for closer Nordic cooperation on joint participation in UN operations. Similarly, Nordic countries should be able to develop joint initiatives towards the UN in order to strengthen the organisation’s ability to plan and manage military operations. We will also work for other Western countries to become more committed to military UN operations. As demonstrated by the statement last week and which has also been problematic here, the Government has decided that NATO’s stabilisation operation in Afghanistan, ISAF, will be the main field of action of the Norwegian military international effort in the future. The exposure of Operation Enduring Freedom is terminated. We consider it important that Norway concentrate its military contribution to Afghanistan on ISAF. In this way, we support NATO's relevance and contribute to the achievement of its objectives. NATO has asked for our support and our contributions. Referenced to the debate here, I would also like to say: in relation to the relationship between ISAF and OEF and that we now want to bet on ISAF, it has been problematical that we almost fail our allies. That's not the case. As far as the contributions to ISAF are concerned, they come substantially from European countries. There is a very small proportion – less than 10 pst., below it even, approx. 60 out of 8 000 soldiers in ISAF — coming from the United States, so this is a significant contribution from Europe. In a number of security resolutions, last through SR 1623 of 13 September 2005, ISAF was asked to expand its area of operation. In line with this, a plan has been adopted in NATO on a four-stage extension of ISAF. Steps 1 and 2 in the north and west respectively are completed. A new operational plan is being developed to cover steps 3 and 4 in the south and east, respectively. Southern enlargement begins in the spring of 2006. The extended responsibilities of ISAF come as a natural consequence of political developments in Afghanistan. In the autumn 2004 presidential elections and the recent parliamentary elections this autumn, the Bonn process has been completed. In this context, it is essential that the influence of central government in the provinces is increased. It is therefore necessary that ISAF assume a greater responsibility for the stabilisation of the country. We follow this up by moving Norwegian forces out of Kabul and establishing ourselves under the regional command of northern Afghanistan. The extension of ISAF to an increasing number of provinces in Afghanistan increases the requirement for the military capabilities of the Alliance, including fighter aircraft. The regional stabilisation teams operate very widely, over large geographical distances and with light equipment. Hunter aircraft will be important to support these forces. Aeroplanes will be able to provide direct support to the ground ISAF forces and help to better understand the situation in the vast area of the situation the strength will cover. In connection with the relocation of our country-military engagement from Kabul to North Afghanistan in the spring of 2006, Norwegian aircraft are also a direct contribution to the security needs of our own forces. Although ISAF and the OEF have different mandates, close coordination and exchange of information are important to enable both operations to carry out their respective tasks under their respective mandates. It has therefore been necessary to establish cooperation between them. The Security Council Resolutions conferring its mandate on ISAF also encourage cooperation with the OEC. The extension of ISAF southwards and eastwards further underlines the need for a coordinated effort between the two operations. The objective of both operations is to enable Afghan authorities to manage the country themselves. How this cooperation will develop in the future is now being discussed in NATO. No conclusions have yet been drawn. However, it is nevertheless important that the relationship between the two operations ensure constructive military cooperation, while clarifying the different mandates of the two operations. In this context, it is important to refer to the 2003 agreement that regulates this. The agreement between NATO and Operation Renewing Freedom on mutual assistance in crisis situations ensures, first and foremost, that ISAF is able to draw on capacities that the force itself does not have in place to an adequate degree. Hunter aircraft support is, and has been, one of these capabilities. However, the OEF may arise in similar critical situations, where they themselves are unable to support coalition soldiers in a life-threatening situation. In such cases, they may request assistance from ISAF. As previously announced, all Norwegian officers will be out of Iraq by mid-December. Let me stress that the above-mentioned decision is not an expression of the Government's doubts about the basis of international law, either for NATO's training mission or for the multinational stabilisation force. Both of these operations are provided for in Security Council Resolution 1546 of 2 June 2005, which was otherwise renewed by the United Nations last week. In addition, the training mission of NATO is hosted by invitation from the Iraqi Government to NATO. The decision also does not imply that we withdraw all support for the training option. We would like, among other things: continue to optimise the training of Iraqi officers on Jåttå under the auspices of NATO. Last night there were several coordinated bombings against the ISAF forces in Afghanistan. The security measures for the Norwegian soldiers have been reinforced. This is a reminder of the importance of taking all necessary measures for strength protection. Finally, let me inform you that we regularly receive very good feedback from other nations regarding the efforts and professionalism of Norwegian personnel when they serve out. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that all Norwegian forces involved in military operations abroad, of course, have the full confidence and support of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e974	As I mentioned in my post, the Progress Party is very pleased with the Government's decision regarding the involvement in Afghanistan. Now the state council just mentioned something – she might have answered my question already – but I think this is so important that it cannot be repeated often enough. Compared to the government partner SV's involvement in and outside this hall, which clearly shows that SV is a split party, my question becomes to the Council of State: Do the Swedish Government also clearly agree with the Government's decision, so that there is no reason to doubt the decision, even in the long term? If there is something that NATO is dependent on in order to solve its tasks, it is a firm and predictable position of the Member States. Then I raise a little additional question about another matter: Our F-16 fighter planes have had limitations in terms of capacity. Are the aeroplanes we're going to send to Afghanistan now equipped so that they can participate fully operationally in sharp air-ground operations without restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e983	With regard to the first question raised by the representative of Wideth, the answer is that the Government is unanimous and supports the policy to be followed for international operations for 2006. Now I've forgotten the second question. Maybe the president can help me?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e990	The president thinks it's about F-16.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e993	It's about F-16, yeah. We've said we're going to send three-four F-16 planes to Afghanistan next year for a three-month period. That's because we're always going to have two that are going to be operational. Of course, the planes we send are in good condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1000	I think we could save ourselves a lot of work today if the government had just been a little bit more open in its rationale. So just to confirm that I've got it right: I understand that when SV has now reached through with its position on ‘Enduring Freedom’ and NATO’s training mission in Iraq, it doesn't mean that the government agrees with SV's reasons. On the contrary, I believe that the Minister of Defence disagrees with the reasons given by the SV as they have been presented for many years here in the Chamber. I would like to confirm that. The second is: I understand that when the committee leader says that this does not mean any conversion of Norwegian foreign policy, just a more focused effort, it is the Government's position. Then the question is, is that the whole government's attitude, including Kristin Halvorsen's? Then I just wanted to say that if we had known that before, we would have gotten away with a lot of discussion before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1007	With regard to the reason for withdrawing our forces from Iraq, it has been stated several times today that the Labour Party has said the same thing before the elections that we have now made when we are in government. Decisions were taken in the Stortinget where the Workers' Party voted against sending training officers to Iraq. That is why we also said before the elections that we would withdraw our forces from Iraq. As far as ‘Enduring Freedom’ is concerned, as I said in my post, there is a great need in ISAF for us to increase our efforts under NATO command. That's why we choose to do that. I also think it is interesting in this context to clarify that it is actually the European NATO countries that have most of the responsibility in ISAF. The United States is participating in this operation with a very small share.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1014	Both in its presentation and today, the Minister of Defence has addressed the assessments of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF operation and a possible aggregation of these. There is no definite sign here, but it is clear that in NATO's body is now working on this question. It would be interesting to know what the angle of incidence and what kind of starting position the government has here. Do they want to go for such a merger, or are they reserved for such a merger? One might think that it would actually be pretty rational to see these two operations in context, and that it was all NATO leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1020	As regards the relationship between ISAF and Enduring Freedom, I will refer to the cooperation and cooperation agreement that exists. Although there has been a discussion of a merger, I will not foreshadow a debate that the Government has not taken a position on, and which I do not think is quite real right now either. It would be a debate that would have to come if the issue were to arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1025	I did not get a clear answer to my last question, I think. I got the answer that the planes are in good condition, and of course I assume that they are. It should almost just be missing. In the light of the position taken earlier by the government partner SV that they are not particularly satisfied with the fact that they are sending aircraft equipped so tightly that they can participate in proper operations, I ask again: are the planes we are about to send to Afghanistan equipped so that they can participate fully operationally in sharp air-ground operations without restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1032	The answer is yes, the planes can contribute in any way. They are equipped enough to contribute in every way, but I would also say that it will only be completely exceptional. First of all, the aeroplanes must be a strengthening force for those on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1037	I did not ask any questions about what the government has proposed. I think that's what we – most people – have brought with us after repeated rehearsals. My first question was: Can I get a positive confirmation that the chairman of the committee Akselsen's assessment of whether this is a conversion of Norwegian foreign policy, is the government's assessment, the entire government's assessment? My second question was: is it that the SV's reason is now aside, and that the members of the Government do not share it? I would also like to know if you disagree with it so much that you could say that you're taking a distance from it? These are absolutely central questions. If I could get a positive answer to both of these issues, I would at least go happily away from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1044	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we say that the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy are fixed. That means we're based on NATO, and we're based on the United Nations. That is what underpins foreign policy. There are two areas where we've said that we're making a change. One is Iraq, which has been highly problematic, and the other is that we end our engagement in Afghanistan in ‘Enduring Freedom’. There are the two issues that have been raised. Then we've said that we want a much stronger bet on the UN. On the last question, I note that the Government is unanimous in its decision on international operations for 2006. That's the answer to Petersen's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1053	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1056	You have to have a pretty open mind here to get the shifts. I was basically on the way to buying the explanation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the change from ‘Enduring Freedom’ to ISAF had a practical cause and a reason for capacity, and basically had nothing to do with the mandate or with whom it was headed. But now the Minister of Defence has said both in his speech and in his reply that it is much easier to be part of ISAF, because it consists mainly of European nations and with so few Americans. We don't have any problems with participating in actions with our Allied American NATO party, I hope. I'll ask you two questions. One is, where are we going to contribute? And the second is, what are we going to do? That's going to happen again in the whole debate here. In terms of where we're going to contribute, it's obviously a broad collection that it has to be under a UN mandate. There is probably also a collection on what is widely accepted internationally, that at the request of a country, we can set up. This applies not least in emergency situations, but also in cases of ethnic cleansing and genocide, where there are different examples. Several have moved Kosovo forward here today, where we went in. Another example could be Rwanda, where you didn't go in. The main spokesman of the Central Party pointed out that when you entered Kosovo, it was because there was a special situation. I believe that any situation where genocide exists is a special situation. I am so reassured that the Foreign Minister let it stand a little openly in the sense that one is willing to assess each situation when it arises. I think you have to be open to that. But what are we going to do? The representative Jacobsen was earlier today thinking that he wanted to get back to the big numbers, 1,500 blue helmets. I don't think it's necessarily about the number. I think it's about capabilities, skills, and there's been more. It's also the way one has mentioned here today, that our special capacities have been built in close association with NATO, so that what we can offer is an integral part of the whole that the other nations in NATO also offer. I would like to point out that there are other factors, and this may not be the case at all in Africa, which is a continent that may be concerned about sending Norwegian contributions to in the years to come. Then one should be humble because Europe has a past in Africa, and that very many still pay close attention to it. There is also an increasing awareness of the value of the African countries themselves providing forces where possible. It has been formulated through the African Union. I think it has a lot to do with the belief in its own identity and the belief in being able to take care of itself as a basis for creating a future as a nation on the African continent, and those countries will be able to deal much easier with volumes than with specialized capacities. It makes it all the more important for us to put behind us this idea that we're going to contribute the large number. We need to be more open to contribute to the special things that they want us to keep silent, and then see if we can supplement them where they themselves can silence with the big volume. It's also an economic side. In the United Nations, more have pointed out that there is a higher cost of sending crews from high-cost countries in Europe than it is from countries beyond the South. Several things therefore suggest that we may redefine our own role in a new pattern, where we not only look at what we can contribute, but also have increasing confidence that others too can contribute and fulfill their role.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1071	We have this debate to discuss how scarce Norwegian resources can best be used to strengthen democracy, stability and, in particular, civil security worldwide. We have received good reports – I would praise both the Councils – from the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which show that there are many dilemmas along the road we are going to go, that there are many challenges, but not least that the new government has a clear focus and priorities in terms of its work. We need to prioritise the UN with our forces, and that necessarily means that we need to down-prioritize other places where the UN is not involved. We need a clear and unambiguous UN mandate. It is a very clear signal from the Norwegian Government and from the Norwegian Government. We're going to be a peace nation, and that means we're going to prevent, dampen and resolve conflicts. It says to read in the government statement. It also has implications for how we participate, and what kind of operations we engage in, with our forces in the rest of the world. These are priorities that all the government partners are in favour of, and for which we have argued in this discussion. It can't be surprising for Right that SV's vision has better conditions in this government than in a government where Right is involved. If we're going to be busy with people in other parts of the world, there's one thing we need to point out, and this applies, among other things. in Afghanistan, there is a deep imbalance between the amounts of world countries, on the one hand, are willing to use to develop democracy, to prevent war and to build land after conflict, and, on the other hand, the willingness to send forces to engage in acts of war and other operations. So it's extremely costly. It costs a lot of money, and too little money is spent on the side that we think is important to strengthen. Norway must be a leading country here. Here we must clearly encourage our allies to do something similar to what we are doing, namely to bet on the reconstructive and peace-building side. If we're going to be a first country, we're going to have to get the rest of us on this. Without the ISAF forces to contribute to securing conditions in Afghanistan, we would not have had a basis for the social development that is absolutely crucial there. But at least it is equally important to recognise that without social development, lasting peace, democracy and trust in the intentions of the world society are not created in the country. It is striking that when I ask friends of me and others who have served or serve in Afghanistan, everyone says that the most important thing we can do to succeed in Afghanistan is to make sure that there is a visible development for people there. It's about sewage, it's about schools, it's about less corruption, it's about security from hunger, and it's about a marked strengthening of women's position. And then how do we achieve this best? That is the discussion that should be the main focus here when we are discussing Afghanistan. Here's the big challenge. Drug production and the financing of drug production by different military organisations are challenging. Strengthening the real power and economic power of the democratic structures is a clear challenge, and achieving visible results in those places where we have regional stabilisation teams. These are all things that we have to be able to solve together, and therefore I think it is good that we have got such a broad explanation as the one we have here today. So I'll go into one thing that I thought it was quite perceptive that the Right Leader pulled out. On the right, we complain that the consensus in foreign policy has been broken, and that SV has had such a strong influence on this. I am very pleased that SV has an influence on this, but I would like to say that it is the Right who is involved in breaking the consensus in foreign policy in today's situation. Take the one example that the Right drew out. All the government parties and other parties in this Chamber are very clear that we want to change NATO's first strategy, while the Right's parliamentary leader made a statement that it signals weakness to undemocratic regimes. My question is, isn't it precisely Right Rationalism, as it is, that makes several countries want to acquire nuclear weapons? Is it not just that you allow yourself to use nuclear weapons first, which causes uncertainty to be created in larger parts and regions of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1086	In the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is one heavy component that I think is worth stopping, and that is very important, and that is the contribution that is made civilly to the development of democracy and society. The Foreign Minister was clearly aware of this, both in terms of Afghanistan and Iraq. I want to link some reflections to that. When it came to Afghanistan, the Foreign Minister was very clear that we were going to bet on the commitment Norway has had in Afghanistan, which means making contributions to building a police and judicial system that can work. That's an attitude I share. It may not be as well known to everyone, but there are many Norwegian policemen who have been in international service. It means something to the respect we have for contributing to civilisation institutions, but it is also an incredibly valuable competence to bring back to a country that also has multicultural opportunities and challenges. Similarly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also pointed out the Norwegian possibility, which is very positive, of contributing to the so-called ‘power well’, i.e. contributing with judges, prosecutors and others who can ensure the functioning of the judiciary. This was very clear and precise when it came to Afghanistan. The left has no problem supporting such a line. We think it is very important and valuable. I would like to link a reflection to this. I think it has to be a reflection of everyone who is attached to ensuring democracy in this world, that sometimes it also requires military intervention. I think it's important to bear in mind that when you had the operation in Kosovo in your time, the police were the ones who came last. When the police were sent in, they were sent in to check that the insurance was in order and to take traffic controls. It was at a time when both the KLA, and perhaps for that matter the Mafia, had taken considerable control of the administration. Then there will be a point in subsequent peacekeeping and peace-building operations, civil society resources must be included from the very beginning. If there is no respect for law and order, if there is no respect for this, there is no way. We can also see, without going into Iraq badly, that some of what happened after the invasion of Iraq, which Norway did not support, was that there was no law and order. Norway is now doing its own work, including: by training police officers. I want to go to Iraq. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said – and that was commendable – that although he withdraws the ten Norwegian staff officers who were one line of left-wing support when we were in government, but as we note that the new government will not do, one must help to get Iraq on its feet and get along. That's quite natural, because that means that you're going to follow up the UN's call for the world community to contribute. I am therefore curious when the Foreign Minister in his speech says that in the longer term we must contribute to Iraq's self-sufficiency. He also says that it is therefore important to rust up the Iraqi petroleum industry. Norway has special conditions in which to contribute. My question is, does the Foreign Minister here think in the long term, or does he think in the short term? The reason why I put the question this way is that if a country's main source of income, i.e. the oil industry in Iraq, does not work, a government has minimal opportunities to get income to secure society. And if oil and oil supplies cannot take place without being subjected to terrorist attacks, you will simply have very limited opportunities to build and secure society. If this is to be understood – that is why I am drawing this up – as if Norway were prepared to send civil experts to the extreme, then perhaps one of the most important issues in Iraq at the moment, namely, who is going to guarantee their security? Is security to be ensured by Iraqi government forces? Is it to be secured by the forces that the United States has in the country? Or is it to be secured by the institutions that we can see buying themselves soldiers on the international market in order to protect them? I'm not asking the question rhetorically, I'm seriously asking it, because it's not possible to secure the civil structure of a society if the basic civil structures cannot function without being interrupted. I perceived this as a very exciting element in the foreign minister's speeches earlier. That is why, on the left, we would like to reiterate the question raised by our representative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think in the short term about contributing to such a crucial build-up of Iraqi society as ensuring that the oil industry can function, that supplies can function, and that this provides a basis for building society, as the United Nations has called on all countries to contribute as well as they can? I think the Foreign Minister had some exciting thoughts, but I'm waiting anxiously for what the short-term clarification is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1103	To Odd Einar Dørum, I want to say that all countries can't participate in all operations anywhere in the world at the same time, but we might do a little bit different. We do the same for Iraq. We are moving in with more humanitarian support. Moreover, the breadth, continuity and consistency of our foreign policy priorities and participation in international operations have been what has shaped our commitment outside. When the Defence Committee considered the long-term plan for the next four years, there was broad consensus that the UN plays a key role in Norwegian security policy, and that Norwegian foreign policy and security policy are closely linked to the existence of well-functioning cooperation mechanisms in a global framework. So this is related. It was decided from a broad majority of the Committee — in fact, consisting of all parties, except the Advance Party — that Norwegian participation in international operations must be based on both legality and legitimacy and be anchored in international law. Operations shall be mandated by the United Nations, but it is of course up to the United Nations to decide who will exercise command of the forces of international service. Nevertheless, a unanimous committee actually said that within the limits of capacity Norway has, participation in UN operations should increase. I do not know if Morten Höglund has come to know that it was unanimous. This was in 2004. It was the Workers' Party that fought to get these formulations in, but also the Christian People's Party contributed. And I think it's very interesting what Jon Lilletun has said today. He has gone very far in saying that he supports increased participation in pure UN operations. We're looking forward to cooperation on this in the house. The right has probably not exactly in the year that passed, been so concerned about following up on exactly these formulations in the defense agreement. It was then also Right, at Jan Petersen and Kristin Krohn Devold, who broke the long-term agreement that participation in international operations should be as wide as possible in Stortinget, precisely because it is an integral part of Norwegian security policy and also Norwegian foreign policy. That is why there has been a broad political consensus on this. But it seems to me that securing a few handfuls of staff officers, and thus the Norwegian flag, on the ground in Iraq, was more important to the Right than ensuring a broad consensus on how our international operations should be. In 2006, military participation is being maintained at about the same level as it is now and with a goal of increasing our efforts to the UN. Afghanistan remains our main area of cooperation in international operations. I would like to stress that also for NATO, ISAF is the most important priority internationally. Our efforts in Afghanistan are reinforced by the fact that Norway also provides significant assistance and humanitarian aid to the country, which others have also been involved in here. The previous Defence Committee visited Afghanistan in March this year, both Kabul and Meymaneh, where the Provincial Reconstruction Team was led by the British. It's extra nice, I think, that Norway has now taken over the management of PRT in Meymaneh. My impression of the ISAF forces is that they are primarily needed. ISAF is doing a good job on behalf of the United Nations. They are not just UN mandated, this is an operation carried out on behalf of the United Nations, which contributes to stability in the country. The Afghans are tired of war and greatly appreciate the presence of the stabilisation and police forces. What is also exciting in Afghanistan is that shops and trade are flourishing. It was perhaps the greatest surprise for me. Yes, there was actually as much activity in Meymaneh as it was in Kabul. In Kabul, an increasing number of women now go without a jar. But that doesn't mean that the women's oppression is over. The private organizations that worked in Afghanistan told us about a society with extremely high levels of violence against women, and it was hard to get our message about the first woman who had been stoned after the fall of the Taliban. This is the situation we must follow up, and where we must actively use Security Council Resolution 1325. Finally, at the request of the United Nations, NATO has now contributed to Pakistan, and NATO Response Force is also being discussed. Once again we see that next to the Red Cross and the United Nations system, the defence is the operational resource that is actually best trained to take this kind of mission in some given situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1129	It is an interesting historical point that the two presentations that we are debating today took place on the day 40 years after another Minister for Foreign Affairs, John Lyng, was debated in the same room. There are several parallels between the debate we have in the United Kingdom today and the debate that took place in 1965. That time, as now, the debate came after a new government had been appointed after the great selection of the same harvest. At that time, as now, there was a majority government that was appointed as consisting of several parties. The debate at the time, which is now, largely concerned Norway's relationship with both NATO and the United Nations, and the role of the two organisations in the peacekeeping work. A crucial difference, of course, was that the new government at the time replaced the Workers' Party, while the new government now includes the Workers' Party. And yet it's interesting parallels. John Lyng, Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time, invited him in his speech at the time to an open debate on Norwegian foreign and security policy, marked by security that he could tolerate disagreement, and that he accepted diversity. It was a trait of the Right-Man Lyng that he would eventually reap broad recognition and respect for, perhaps least, rightfully, in his own party Right. The current President of the Left, Gunnar Garbo, expressed the following in the debate in 1965: ‘I would like to say that I am very pleased with the open attitude that Foreign Minister Lyng is addressing these problems. He said that the more these questions can be discussed openly and publicly, the better. This is a courageous attitude, because it is a contradiction. But it is also a strong attitude, because it is only through free criticism that we can in the long run test the strength and durability of our own positions." Two years later, on 16 November 1967, both the Left-Representative Gunnar Garbo and the other two, Olaf Kortner and Halvor Bjellaanes, voted against Norwegian support for the US bombing of North Vietnam, in a situation where the Left itself was in government. Before the Foreign Minister’s presentation on 9 November, Gunnar Garbo was one of several appellants expressing concerns about NATO’s involvement outside Europe, here in the plenary session outside the Grand Duchy. I thought it was interesting to hear his appeal. In a free and open society, I also reserve the right to listen to other appeals. It could be appeals that I deeply disagree with. Also the Left would have enjoyed listening to the former president of the same party. It did no harm. Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre and Minister of Defence Ström-Erichsen, through their statements, invites much of the same openness that John Lyng made 40 years earlier. And there's reason to boast several of the single points that have been drawn out. First, the presentations took place in full openness in the main hall, and not in a closed meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, which they would probably have done under the previous government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed that military efforts alone are not suitable to resolve the kind of conflicts that are now being seen, including: in Afghanistan. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out that improving living conditions, improving the humanitarian situation and prospects for work will increase people's faith in their own future. Furthermore, it was pointed out that a Norwegian commitment should be enshrined in the United Nations Charter and have a clear UN mandate. It was also pointed out in the statement that Norway’s involvement shall be based on the ISAF International Security Assistance Force and not on the US-led ‘Enduring Freedom’. The mission of the Norwegian Staff and Training Officers in Iraq will be terminated at the end of their service in mid-December. The government has also underlined that Norway will contribute more to UN operations in Africa and seek to restore Norway’s credibility as an important contributor to UN-led peace operations. All these underscores are those that SV agrees with and about which we naturally support. There can be no doubt that the presentations that have taken place will receive support from the parties that form part of the government. Nevertheless, it is important to have a debate on the consequences of Norway’s actions in foreign countries using military equipment and personnel. It is a debate that cannot be concluded here today, but one that must be actively pursued all the time. It may not be important for any of those who are representatives of the Storting, to know what is actually happening to the Norwegian military personnel, and what is the consequence of the use of military equipment. There'll be SV busy, and we invite everyone who's in this room to be occupied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1154	First of all, a small note on the topic of transparency. The representatives who present it as new that statements of the nature of the Foreign Minister and Minister of Defence have been made on this matter and that they are being debated in the Stortinge must suffer from acute memory loss. Because to the extent that the same representatives actually put on the Storting in the previous period, they must have realised that this is a format of debate and a kind of debate that the Stortinget has had as a normal procedure. There's absolutely nothing new about it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote in his big article in the VG today on the theme Iraq: ‘The most important thing is to enable Iraq to manage itself.’ I am 100 pst. [[...]] Agreed. I'm also 100 pst. agree with the description given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the challenges facing the civilian population in Iraq. But the point where I can no longer follow the foreign minister's reasoning is when he writes in the same article: ‘We will take our share of the practical responsibility for getting Iraq on the feet, but we will change the way we contribute.’ And then a very interesting sentence comes: ‘Norway opposed the invasion of Iraq.’ [[...]] Also in his post here in the Chamber today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said the same thing. And the only thing I've ever seen that has been a precursor to justifying the Government's position on the Norwegian presence in Iraq is that Norway was opposed to the invasion of Iraq. At this point, it is necessary to challenge the Foreign Minister to further share his thoughts with the Storting, for what does this justification mean? The Minister of Foreign Affairs further shows in his chronicle in the VG today that there are several other NATO countries that have adopted the same position that Norway is now suddenly introducing as a new attitude from the Norwegian side. Yeah, that's right. But if you're going to pursue that idea, it must mean that the Foreign Minister actually wants Norway to contribute to deepening the division in NATO, helping to make permanent the difference of opinion that we all know was present in NATO, and that was a serious impression for the whole alliance. It cannot be a task for a Norwegian government to contribute to this, and it cannot be in Norway’s interest. This may be in the interests of other European countries, countries that are currently anchoring their main security policy involvement in the EU and not in NATO. However, it may not be in Norway’s interest to contribute to deepening a division in NATO. It is right that any government should think for itself, as the Foreign Minister said. But it's pretty important what that thinking is all about, and it's pretty important that it communicates with the outside world in a credible and convincing way. The reference to Norway as opposed to the invasion of Iraq cannot serve as a justification for the change in Norwegian policy that the Government is now making. The working party supported, without reservation of any kind, the efforts of Norwegian troops as it was of a size that makes it possible to talk about troops, namely 150 men. At that time, the Workers' Party supported the position of the Government at that time, both when the quota was sent there and when the mandate for it was extended. It was not a single reservation on the part of the Workers' Party. How, then, can it be that the reference to Norway not supporting the invasion of Iraq is now suddenly to serve as a reason to withdraw Norwegian forces in the case of 10 people? There's something in this that just doesn't hang together thoughtfully. Therefore, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to make a new attempt, since he now wants to think for himself, to think in a way that is possible for others to follow, and that makes it possible to justify the position that the Government is now taking. So far, my conclusion – after listening to what has been said by both Councils – is that the reason is not in Iraq or in something that has to do with the conditions in Iraq, it is solely in the field of internal medicine in a new Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1182	I think this matter is perhaps most of all about what kind of signals the Norwegian government and the majority of Norwegians want to send out both to the local audience and to the domestic actors involved in international operational work. I also believe that those who are now doing their utmost to misunderstand the purely political content of this matter, the conversion of the political course to which we are witnessing today, are trying to construct a dispute between pure aid – which Norway is of course among the best in the world to perform in the countries we are talking about, as well as in many other countries, in terms of democracy reconstruction, peace building, police services, etc. – and the fact that Norway, together with its allies, also contributes with stabilising military forces through NATO and UN decisions. These relationships are not at all in contrast to each other. We must allow ourselves to ask ourselves the complex questions: what kind of signals are we sending to our closest allies when, at a critical time when the rest of the world is talking about the need for stabilisation in Iraq, in the middle of the most critical time for Iraq and the construction of what might become a permanent situation for Iraq, we choose to contribute to the lowering of the Norwegian flag in the presence of Norwegian military forces in Iraq? How do we think that our allies, present in Iraq, are responding to this symbolic act that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee chooses not to call for any conversion of Norwegian foreign and security policy? In addition to this, I cannot help but realize that the Minister of Defence said that next year we will be sending three to four F-16 aircraft to Afghanistan. At the same time, symbolic action is also taken to ensure that the equipment, quality and strength we have within the Norwegian defence that is best trained and most requested, and that is best able to cope with security outside, is the part of the Norwegian Defence that is now being cut. One aspect is that one of the government parties was involved in a demonstration against itself outside here a few days ago. What kind of a signal is what you give to this fleet that is most in demand and best trained, when it is actually now told that it is going to be worse trained? You're supposed to have fewer flying hours. So you have to be less equipped to operate in those areas where you might be able to do the greatest service for the security of the world society. There can hardly be any doubt that this fleet is getting worse rusted, while obviously now it is being shown to all that SV has got a hand on the steering wheel within Norwegian defence, security and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1197	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1203	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1211	During the debate, Odelstinget’s Vice-President, Olav Gunnar Ballo, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1239	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the motion by Olav Gunnar Ballo. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The IStorting provides for the following remuneration with effect from 1 October 2005: UKL 586 000 per year. yearMembers of Government 864 000 per year 1 056 000 per year years III Decision No. 21 June 1996 III of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the remuneration of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is added as follows: As a general rule, the regulation of remuneration of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the salary of the Prime Minister shall follow normal wage developments in working life, based on the general wage developments of the last year. Where there are specific circumstances suggesting a different regulation, this shall be justified in the Commission’s position on the Storting.’;» The Central Party has announced that they will support the proposal of Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1286	I forgot for my part to press the counter button. There may also be others who did. I therefore ask that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1291	The representative, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, has asked for a new vote, as she has voted incorrectly. It will be agreed in accordance with established practice when some representatives themselves state that they have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1307	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq and the statement by the Minister of Defence on the future arrangement of Norwegian military strength contributions in Afghanistan and Iraq be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-15.ana.ud1293e1435	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
