ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e62	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five minutes with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e73	The massive support of the trade unions for the red-green option at this year's roll-call elections gave us a new majority and a new government. The deterioration of the working environment law in the right-hand side may have been the main reason for this. The promise of red-green parties to reverse the deterioration of the work environment law adopted by the right-wing parties in June fell in good soil in the workplace. Now this election promise is being fulfilled. The new Work Environment Act is strengthened in four fundamental areas: We strengthen and tighten the working time regulations.We put an end to the increased use of temporary employment.We strengthen the protection against dismissal. We state that the purpose of the law is to protect workers by removing the wording to take account of the needs of businesses and society. Several hearing bodies strongly opposed the need to highlight the concerns of businesses and society in the objectives of the consultation on new work environment law in spring 2005. Such reference to the purpose of the law may contribute to undermining the protection of workers by law. Health, the environment and safety must be overall and cannot be made an economic issue. The protective provisions of the law may not be subordinated to the fluctuating economic cycle or to the economic situation of the establishments. The change in the purpose paragraph at this point is an important signal to give in a situation where workers are constantly meeting new requirements for conversion. In this situation, a reference to the needs of businesses and society in the purpose paragraph of the Act may help employees or employees’ organisations to feel compelled to accept lower levels of protection in order to avoid redundancies and redundancies. The Labour Environment Act is once again a law that unequivocally recognises the importance of workers having a specific need for legal protection. The employee is the weak party in the relationship of power between the employee and the employer. Today’s working life is characterised by different paces, cultures and traditions. In large and traditional industrial enterprises, working conditions will be largely institutionalised, predictable and governed by laws and agreements between trade unions and enterprises. On the other hand, there is what can be called 'the rotted labour force', cheap unskilled labour without professional rights. Nevertheless, we see that idling myths of equality between employer and employee have a foothold in parts of the political environment. These are myths that are largely nourished by a glamour of the «new» knowledge worker, a sought after worker who sells his knowledge and his labour in a free market without trade unions. This glare is gradually cracking, and there are burned-out and worn-out 30-year-olds who have worked their health off in a short time to meet the requirements of efficiency and willingness to work. The undersigned and the majority of the Committee will stress that the purpose paragraph sets out the direction of the law and expresses the overall vision and value of the law. The purpose paragraph also has an impact on the interpretation of the individual paragraphs of the law. The safe working environment is preventive of illness, burnout and low retirement age. Norway is facing major challenges in being able to have enough hands at work when the ageing wave is taking place too fully. We are all served with a modern working life that takes this perspective inward and facilitates the widest possible maintenance of the job. We need to create secure jobs that allow employees to focus on doing their job, more than focusing on keeping it. The use of temporary employment is increasing in Norway. From the 1st to the 3rd quarter of this year, temporary employment increased from 187 000 to 227,000, an increase of more than 20 pst. Total is now close to 11 pst. by the labour force temporarily employed per 3rd quarter of this year. So today's discussion is not about whether we should have temporary employment or not, but whether we should facilitate an increase in the use of temporary employment. In its argument to liberalise the provisions, the opposition claims that increased access to temporary employment will lead to firms employing more, in particular young people and groups in the labour market who are struggling to get into work. This argument is not based on reality. There is no evidence to claim that increased use of temporary employment leads to more people getting a job. It is natural to imagine that in the run-up time it will lead to someone getting to work more quickly, but this is offset by the fact that they also get into unemployment faster when the demand for labour tilts the wrong path. Per. Today, we know that temporary employment is the most widespread in the hotel and restaurant business, with a total of 20,5 pst. by their employees, they are temporarily employed per year; 3rd quarter 2005. This is also the sector where unemployment is highest. In those sectors where labour demand is highest, the problem is mainly a lack of skilled labour. That's how it'll always be in rise times. A working life that increasingly demands education and formal skills will be less able to absorb unemployed people across industries. The employment effect of increasing access to temporary employment is therefore more than doubtful. What's absolutely certain is that the entire 75 pst. by the temporary staff of the 30-54 age group want permanent employment, according to the Central Statistical Office per year. August of this year. The majority of the Committee points to studies showing that temporary staff have less opportunities to influence their own working situation. They often have lower wages and less access to formal and informal training than permanent employees. The disadvantages of being temporarily employed are so great that the Workers' Party does not wish to increase the prevalence of this type of employment. The right to stand in the event of a dispute over a dismissal is a central provision concerning the protection of employees' employment. There are two main considerations underpinning the rules on the right to stand in office: Firstly, in practice, it should be prevented from becoming virtually impossible to re-enter the position in cases where the termination becomes invalid, for example. in the meantime, another member of staff is employed in the post. Secondly, the provision aims to protect the income of employees during the period of dispute. About 50 pst. of all the cases before the courts of the Member State in which the decision is taken become indemnity or null and void. This underpins the importance of maintaining the current rules on the right to stand in a position until a final judgment is given. Another objection to the right to stand in a position that has been brought to the market is that it can be used in settlement negotiations to make employers pay high amounts of compensation. This type of argument can also be found in the opposition's comments in the settings we are dealing with today. I am glad to see evidence that an appeal is being filed only in order to raise the salary until it falls or to be used in settlement negotiations. As a society, we are served to have workers who have energy to follow up family and live a good life outside of work. Norway has a high level of professional activity among women. Norwegian women also have a high level of education, and they give birth to more children than in countries with which we usually compare. These are very positive features of Norwegian society, but it doesn't come of itself. In the future, if we are to be able to get more people into work and get them to work until retirement, we need to have good and health-promoting working conditions. The working time arrangements are central in this context. When, for the first time in the history of labour protection legislation, the majority of the population in June opened up to an extension of working time, this was an estimate of one of the foundations of the high level of participation in employment in Norway. The majority of the Committee also considers that such a framework law adopted in June could easily lead to pressure on workers to work more overtime. In fact, overtime use in Norway per The second quarter of this year has increased to 68 000 full-time jobs. Liberalisation of working time will strengthen this development and thus eliminate more unemployed people. In the debate on these changes, criticism has arisen that the Government is continuing the provisions relating to those who have so-called particularly independent positions, which are exempted from parts of the working time regulations. It's claimed that as many as 1 million workers are exempt. I allow myself to draw in doubt this number. In the comments of an overall committee, we clarify that this derogation should apply to a very limited group of workers. We are aware that the practice of working time arrangements may be contrary to the assumptions made by the legislator, both in the past and in this context. This was also the case in June, and the Stortinget then asked for an investigation into the practice of the provisions, including the scope being affected. Such an investigation will be held next year, and we will then come back to this issue. I am pleased, then, that it is obviously a cross-political view that this group of workers should also be well protected, including in terms of working hours. I therefore expect that when we have a good knowledge of the matter, we will be able to find good solutions when the matter comes to consideration during 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e143	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e146	Studies both in Norway and in other OECD countries show that very many temporary staff move to work gradually, in Norway as much as up to 70 pst. after a two-year period. There has also been clear advice from several market players. Perhaps the main objection comes from the country’s main player in labour market policy, Aetat, who claims that temporary employment is an important gateway to the labour market. My question is whether the Labour Party at all listens to the advice that comes from those who have as their primary task to help people in work, or is all about paying back for help from LO.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e155	In the case of the Workers' Party, good protection of workers is to be provided. Obviously, the law that we have today opens up, as I said, that we have 11 pst. by the labour force temporarily employed. I am very pleased that we are getting a transition from temporary employment to fixed-term employment. But I'm concerned that an increasing proportion of employees in companies and in the labour market are going to be on temporary contracts, when we see the disadvantages this brings primarily to the employees, but also to the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e162	In the summer, the Workers' Party fully agreed with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left that everyone with a particularly independent position should initially be covered by the entire working time chapter of the Working Environment Act, but with the possibility of agreeing with their employer that this would not apply. The Workers' Party supported this proposal, although it encouraged the time and overtime frameworks that are now being repeated. The Christian People's Party believes that greater individual freedom within the framework of responsible working time provides for more parts of the working life to be covered by these safeguards. The working party has been conversing since June. What new information is behind this, and what is new in relation to what was known five months ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e171	What's very important is that we get good solutions to these questions. We have to realize that some groups, and there is also agreement, are to be exempted from these provisions. There is a consensus that this should apply to the management of the enterprises. In order to get good regulations, we should know more about this situation. What is the scope, how is it practiced, and what means do we have to achieve the objective of cross-political agreement, namely that this should be very limited? I am not sure that it would be a wise solution to allow individual negotiations to be exempted from the provisions. This can lead to a very strong pressure on some groups of workers. These are the things that we would like to assess thoroughly when we get this case back from the Government – that is, the investigation into the scope and use of the provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e180	The Central Association of Municipalities has delivered a hearing opinion in connection with the Government's work to amend the Working Environment Act. In that draft consultation, the KS Government’s proposals are in line with essential points, including: KS says that it is striking that the Government does not want a work environment legislation that takes into account the needs of businesses for flexibility. The Bondevik government’s bill contained the same conditions for private and public employers to use temporary employment. What the government of Stoltenberg chooses to do now is to reverse this. Therefore, my question is: does the representative Henriksen think that it is reasonable that the state sector should have a type of flexibility that municipalities and private individuals are denied?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e189	In connection with the previous round of the Stortingen on the Working Environment Act, it was also decided that the Civil Service Act should be repealed. This went against the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV strongly, because we felt that there was no good process at the root of such a decision. We will deal with this later today. The decision will then be repealed and the Civil Service Act will continue to apply. Then there is a difference between the state sector and the rest of the working life, because we maintain the official law as it is. It has nothing else to do with this matter that we are dealing with here today, it is a matter that we will deal with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e200	On 6 June 2005, i.e. barely six months ago, treated Odelstinget Ot.prp. No 49 for 2004–2005 on the Labour Environment Act. This is a rematch on the things that the newly formed red-green government's parties lost. Such a treatment provided by the Government with limited participation opportunities creates unforeseeable business and workers. You can only wonder if this is part of the refund to LO for all the millions of dollars injected into the campaign of the red-greens. The wording of the purpose paragraph on the needs of workers, enterprises and society must be seen in the context of strengthening the objective of an inclusive working life in the purpose paragraph. Both good protective provisions and incentives for high employment are important for an inclusive working life. There is therefore no contradiction between stressing the primary purpose of the law as a protection law and stressing that the law must contribute to an inclusive working life that meets the needs of workers, businesses and society. In my view, the majority's view is that an emphasis on this should lead to the subordination of protection concerns to economic considerations and fluctuating economic cycles, wonderful. First of all, this is made clear in the Bill that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left were behind – that the primary purpose of the Work Environment Act was still to protect workers. Secondly, the Progress Party, like the Labour Law Committee as a whole, has, or will be, a fundamental view that the working environment rules are not, or will be, a barrier to good profitability and the development of competitiveness for Norwegian enterprises. Therefore, there is no need to postpone the requirements of the health and safety at work laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. In my view, the changes made by the government in the Labour Environment Act have removed the balance between the needs of workers, businesses and society that led to the design of the individual paragraphs of the bill of the Bondevik II government adopted by the majority. The law has been given an impact page with one-sided support for the views of individual organised groups of workers. When there is a higher threshold in working life, it cannot be said to contribute neither to an inclusive working life nor to better protection of workers. The proposal to extend access to temporary employment was adopted on 6 June 2005 by a majority in Odelstinget. First, this proposal contained the same conditions for both private and public employers to use temporary employment. Then there was a clear simplification of the legislation. The premise that temporary employment should be the gateway to permanent work, not a permanent state, was clearly highlighted in the bill. The law established clear limits on the length of time allowed for temporary employment before the right to a permanent position was granted. Abuse of the scheme was prevented by prohibiting so-called series employment in a single exposure. I record that the Government and government parties are on collision courses with key and well-informed actors regarding the impact of increased access to temporary employment on working life. The government is on a collision course with Norwegian businesses saying that increased access to temporary employment will lead to their taking the opportunity to hire more people. The government ignores the clear advice of the country’s main labour market policy player, Aetat, who says that temporary employment is an important gateway to the labour market, also for jobseekers who have traditionally had difficulties getting in here. The government is on a collision course with the entire Municipality of Norway, which, via its central stakeholder organisation, KS, says that the changes that were adopted in June would help to ensure that more people who were outside the labour market would get to work. According to the KS, there is a risk that the reversing parties are now making the amendments adopted, leading to fewer new jobs and to more disputes in the judiciary. The Progress Party believes that fixed employment is always preferable to temporary employment. This will also be the general rule in Norwegian working life in the future, regardless of whether the decision of 6 June had remained standing or not. The clear framework and time limits for temporary employment adopted in June contribute to it. I also dare to point out that temporary employment is always better than unemployment. Studies both in Norway and in other OECD countries show that very many temporary staff move to permanent jobs gradually, in Norway as much as 70 pst. after a two-year period. I would also like to point out that the proportion of the temporary staff depends not only on access to temporary employment, but probably to a much greater extent on job protection differences for permanent versus temporary employees. I guess it would not be up-to-date for the Government to propose parallel rules for access to temporary employment and job protection for the United States or the United Kingdom, which have the highest proportion of permanent staff in the OECD area. In my opinion, the Government and government parties prioritise the interests of well-organised and well-established groups in the labour market at the expense of those outside. The biggest distinction in the labour market today is not between those who are permanent and temporarily employed, but between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. In my view, an overall goal for an inclusive working life with room for all must be that the group that is completely outside the job on a long-term basis is minimised. It appears to me as a paradox that the Government is proposing a legal provision that could lead to more overtime in enterprises rather than new jobs, which creates greater barriers for young people, immigrants and others with less relevant job experience in the labour market in this country and discriminates between different employers. The adverse effects may be somewhat limited by the fact that the case-law has opened up a liberal interpretation of the letter of the law, but in my view this should in any case lead to the law being adjusted to actual practice, which does not result from the continuation of the old regulations by the Government. I would like to stress that a main purpose of working time regulations is to ensure that employees have a working time that does not impose unnecessary health and social burdens on them and their immediate family. I would point out that the law passed by the majority on 6 June contained further improvements in this field, such as: the right to flexible working time and the extension of the workforce covered by the working time chapter. I believe that the Government's proposal to reverse all changes to the Labour Environment Act in this area over the last four years will make it more difficult for individual employees and employers to agree on the direct use of overtime appropriate to both parties. There will be a more complex regulatory framework that small businesses will experience as a greater regulatory burden. As the Government itself admits in Ot.prp. No 24 for 2005–06, the old framework now being reintroduced will also not be suitable for the whole of work. The Party prefers external frameworks based on health, environment and safety, but with greater freedom within these frameworks to adapt overtime to individual needs. It also makes it possible to have legislation that applies to the entire working life. I believe that it is most inadequate simply to conclude that the continuation of the applicable law does not have financial or administrative consequences. The alternative to standing still at the same point is to move forward. The alternative to the legislative decisions that the majority will now adopt is the adoption of the decision from 6 June 2005. I believe that there is a clear risk that the government proposal will make it more difficult for many young people and immigrants to get in touch with the labour market and that there will be higher thresholds for employers to hire new employees. I would also like to point out that, in particular, the changes in access to temporary employment will have a major impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore also on business policy. In a start-up and growth phase, it will be difficult for many small businesses to estimate their long-term profitability, which would mean that too many people would not be hired, rather than be employed in a permanent position. I would therefore like to stress that in many cases the ability and ability of small businesses to invest and grow will be linked to the flexibility of the workforce at a certain stage. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 49 for 2004-2005, the Progress Party had several proposals that were downgraded. We have not reopened these proposals for the reason that it is less than six months since the case was dealt with in Stortinget. It is our view that both business and workers are entitled to a minimum of predictability. We will therefore stand on what we agreed with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I also mentioned the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e234	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e239	The progress party likes to call itself the new work party. For the time being, they are alone about it, fortunately. It's probably about theory and practice. Extended use of temporary employment is such an example. On the Labour Inspectorate’s websites, there is an interesting article by the superior Ingrid Sivesind Mehlum, which documents the link between temporary employment, increased mental health problems, occupational injuries and other health problems. Young women working in health and social, commerce, hotels and restaurants are particularly vulnerable. To this end, the NHO has asked a selection of employers if they would hire more people with extended access to temporary employment. A majority answer yes. An old word says, "As you call in the woods, you get an answer." My question to Kenneth Svendsen is: Has the Progress Party considered at all the international research that shows significant health damage to such a policy? If so, does that mean nothing to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e248	The representative started his post by saying that we love to call ourselves the new work party. We may be a new party for the working class, that's probably correct, but we're a much more modern working party than the working party that's today, which is firmly linked to the LO both with representation in central government, etc. For the Progress Party, it is important to provide jobs. That's why we have a general policy that makes it possible for us to get more people to work in this country, in terms of tax policy and not least to facilitate the creation of new businesses. In the case of temporary employment, we have taken into account the reports that come from the very players in the market, which say that this gives access to the labour market on a regular basis. That is why, as I said, we have taken this on board and supported it. And it is amazing that the Workers' Party does not take into account its own establishment – Aetat – that gives clear advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e257	The Progress Party believes that today the majority of people with disabilities are opting for solutions that are for the well-established groups and for those in the labour market and are pushing people with disabilities ahead in the fight for more temporary employment and increased use of overtime. Then my question to the Progress Party is whether they have at all read or noticed what the organisations of disabled people themselves say about these questions. When it comes to temporary employment, they say that it will not lead to general safety at work and that you can feel the pressure to accept employment that disabled people have the least opportunity to fill. Therefore, their experience is clear that this does not work as intended. It may work a bit like a swing door, but as an entrance to a lasting work it doesn't work. Increased working time and reduced health are interrelated. It shows all the research. How, then, can the Progress Party believe that a working life that allows more overtime should allow more people with health problems and disabilities to enter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e264	We believe that greater opening up to temporary employment will lead to more people entering the labour market. It is shown from both KS, from Aetat and from many others that you get more in work. It must be a dilemma that when you stop and change the law now, it may lead to more overtime work outside of those who have work today. We want to make it easier for people with disabilities to get into work, and we believe that this temporary employment will help solve the problems they have. In addition, I must say that I am amazed that SV, with the interest that Karin Andersen is now showing that disabled people are going to work, would not support the proposals of the Progress Party to increase efforts for sheltered measures and to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e271	I noticed that the representative, Kenneth Svendsen, believed that the Working Environment Act now incorporates in the purpose paragraph that there should be a protection law and not a law that equates the protection of workers with market needs, is a form of paying back LO's support to the Workers' Party in the election campaign. Since my party has not received any such support, and therefore has nothing to pay back, I wonder why Kenneth Svendsen is using such a form. We had a consultation session with all the trade unions, and I believe that there was a total number of professional organisations that strongly underlined the importance of getting the labour environment law back as a protection law for the employees, and that they rejected the new purpose paragraph adopted in June. Did Kenneth Svendsen register the same thing, or did he just register LO's signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e276	That's what's the big difference between the Progress Party and SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party – the Red-Green Government. They recorded mostly what came from the LO, and then they registered what came from the employee organisations. The progress party took note of recording all the recordings that came – also from KS, as I mentioned earlier, and from Aetat, as I have also said before – and research reports that show exactly what we have said over and over again. Otherwise, it might be interesting to note that the centre party is not the party that has been the most on the field in this case. It's the Workers' Party and the SV. And that's probably because they have more to pay back than the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e286	Today is a sad day for weak groups who have problems getting into the labour market today, for young people and for immigrants. It is a sad day for small businesses and entrepreneurs in particular and the business community in general, partly because the Government's proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act represents a major step backwards in its work to create a more inclusive working life. The new law – or rather the old law – that may be passed today is not adapted to today’s working life, but to yesterday’s. Yes, not just yesterday's, but a working life from the last century, a working life that hardly exists anymore. I am absolutely sure that the proposed changes on the contrary lead to a more exclusive working life. I am particularly disappointed that the Government will restrict access to temporary employment. This will make it more difficult for groups with little experience and formal competence to enter the labour market. The government's proposals affect, among other things, young people and immigrants with full force. Now the opportunities for many to get a foot within the labour market are being played out. It is sad for all those who had earned a chance – deserved a chance of anything other than passive measures or leave. A number of studies among Norwegian business managers have shown that they will hire more if access to temporary employment is extended. For example, the NHO conducted a survey of nearly 800 enterprises in September of the year where a total of 75 pst. they replied that they would hire more people if access to temporary employment was extended. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the Government’s own expert body in terms of inclusive working life, Aetat, during the consultation round on the suspension of the Labour Law Committee, carried out a warm defence in order to extend access to temporary employment. Aetat wrote the following: ‘Etat has experience that temporary jobs are an important entry into the labour market. Aetat points out that the employee who is a temporary or temporary employee is given the opportunity to show his/her qualifications, which in turn may lead to permanent employment. Aetat refers to a separate follow-up survey of former jobseekers, which supports the role of temporary jobs as entry to the labour market.» I can see no other reason why the government has chosen to ignore the advice of its own experts on inclusive working life, than that they do not comply with the orders of the main sponsor of the government party, LO. The Central Association of Municipalities, KS, is also critical of the proposal to reverse the adopted provision on temporary employment. In their opinion, they wrote: ‘KS is of the opinion that the changes would have contributed to the testing of more people outside the labour market. [[...]] There will now be a risk that new jobs will be made to a lesser extent. Not least for the municipal sector, such a decoration would improve the recruitment situation for groups that will be much needed in the future.’» In plain text: If the Government is to be able to follow up its promises if, among other things. 10 000 more people in the care sector are not a labour-environment law in full reverses the right way to go. It can also be mentioned that the labour movement's own research institute, Fafo, has researched temporary employment and found out that a total of 75 pst. temporary staff have moved to a permanent post during a two-year period. For the Right, it has always been such that fixed employment remains the general rule in Norwegian working life. Don't let any doubt about it. But having a temporary job to go to must be far better than having no job at all! However, it is important to avoid forced workers to walk in long-term temporary conditions of addition. For this reason, the law to be reversed put in place, a maximum period for temporary employment of four years and, in addition, a specific provision on the right to permanent employment after one year in the case of temporary employment under the new general provision for temporary employment. Furthermore, the principle that temporary employees have the right to continue if the work is continued was statutory, so that it would not be possible to replace one temporary employee with another. Serial employment in the same temporary exposure should also not be permitted. In other words, the legal access to temporary employment that we opened through the Law Decision of 6 June 2005 was brought in in such a good and transparent way that there should be no reason to fear abuse. Nor was there any cause for using such a vulgar argument about the new work environment law that the Workers' Party and SV served through the ‘long election campaign’. It served only one purpose: to draw a very caricatured picture of the policies of their political opponents, to argue against this image and to present us with something else, as malicious people who wanted to rule with workers. And it all had one goal in mind: to win the election. I could use strong words about that kind of political behavior and rhetoric, but I'm going to leave it in this round. The right is also critical that the Government wants to reintroduce the detailed regulation of overtime and to deprive employees of the possibility of agreeing to an extension of overtime. This can be described as nothing more than a mere unemployment of the employees and a lack of power over the individual employee. Why on a global scale can employers and employees not be allowed to enter into working-time contracts on the individual enterprise that suits both parties? For example, it must be quite possible to make an agreement that allows children to be picked up earlier in kindergarten and rather work more at other times, or work from home. This is in the interests of both the employee and the employer. Furthermore, the Government has opted to remove the reference in the purpose paragraph of the Act to the needs of society and businesses because it is ‘a breach of the historical tradition of labour protection legislation’. Obviously, Minister of Labour Bjarne Håkon Hanssen did not believe that, fortunately, working life has changed a great deal since the first introduction of labour protection legislation in Norway. We must continue to have a work environment law that ensures safe and sound working conditions for workers. However, in addition to this, today’s working life makes very different demands for flexibility and individual solutions than was the case at the end of the 1800s when the first labour protection legislation was introduced. When I heard the rapporteur's speeches here today, I must say that I had a strong feeling that he wanted to cultivate the old image of the class society that marked the emergence of the industrial community in the last century. I don't think today's labour market and today's workers deserve that. I think we do a great service to the labour market and workers by having a slightly more nuanced view of what the labour market actually looks like. The Labour Environment Act adopted in June 2005 was the result of a long and thorough process in which all social partners were consulted. The result was a balanced law, where important balances and considerations had been made, and where the final result was good for both employees, employers and society. I therefore think it is a great pity that the government has now chosen to reverse the passed law on several important points after a ‘hearing process’ of just two days, and where the hearing note had been leaked to one of the parties, namely LO, in advance. Luckily, the leak has been lamented by the Council of State on a costly and sacred basis and assured that it will not repeat itself. The last thing we need is a work environment law that reverses the clock and makes it harder to create jobs in Norway. If the Government's proposal is adopted, and that is unfortunately all reason to count on, we are left with an even more rigorous labour-environment law than we had before the new law was passed in June of this year. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's work environment law in reverse will weaken the basis for increased employment. And maybe the worst of all: it will build higher barriers between those inside and those who are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e341	On 4 October the Labour Inspectorate published an article on temporary work and health. It refers to a Finnish review of 27 scientific studies in several different countries. It shows a higher incidence of mental health problems among temporary staff than among permanent staff. The review also refers to a Swedish survey, where 20 pst. of the short-term employees had had financial problems, and more than half of those asked had problems getting loans. In addition, several of the studies show that temporary workers have a higher risk of occupational injury. My question to the representative Engeset is: does he share some of the concerns that a number of studies show in relation to the negative consequences of the use of temporary employment? Or choose Right to ignore what they're showing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e348	For my part, I am most concerned and satisfied with that 75 pst. by those who try to work temporarily, they get a regular job after some time. I'm most satisfied with that. Studies comparing mental health problems between temporary and permanent staff may be interesting enough. But I think it would have been a lot more interesting to study differences in mental health between those who had a job and those who didn't have a job and who for years are outside the labour market without getting a chance to try. Just that point, I think maybe the representatives of the Workers' Party should be more concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e355	There is reason to ask Right more about this with temporary employment. They argue that it is today that a proportion of temporary staff are employed on a permanent basis. However, it has to do with the fact that today’s legislation does not allow temporary employment as a general and open access for employers. Right doesn't see that there's a clear connection here, and that the relationship would shift sharply towards getting a lot more temporary jobs, and that it would continue as a permanent state for a very large number of workers, perhaps especially for those who make the weakest, namely the disabled? Because some people with disabilities also need work organisation. Does the representative Engeset and Right believe that an employer will go to quite expensive work organisation to temporarily hire a disabled person in a position?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e360	This violent resistance to temporary staff and the possibility of using it, I have really big problems to understand, not least taking into account all the heavy consultation bodies that believe that it is an important tool and a good entry into the labour market for weak groups. I have shown in my article how Aetat, for example. With strength asserts it. I have also referred to research from Fafo that points out that many of those who get temporary employment, also eventually get a regular job, which must be the main goal. Otherwise, I also believe that the strong language used to characterise the new work environment law, which unfortunately will never come into force, is more conditional on the need for internal medical policy needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e367	I noticed that the representative Engeset felt that maintaining the provisions of the current work environment law, which the majority of people here are in favour of, would be bringing our working life back to the conditions of the last century. Now it's in itself a bit of a funny reasoning, maybe. But at the same time, when I read the newspapers today, when one sees the daily headlines about how the working life actually works out there in the city at the construction sites, for example, that getting back the work situation of the 1990s in Norway might not be so bad. Also Engeset believes that it is LO as the main sponsor who is behind the majority. Does Engeset recognize the competence, for example: the organisations of nurses, teachers, academics and other professionals, when they have said to the Committee exactly the same thing as LO in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e374	No, I do not support anyone, but I stress the responsibilities of the Grand Duchy as a legislator in balancing differing interests and in adopting a comprehensive and balanced law that takes care of both employees, employers and society's needs. I do not feel in any way that the reversed work environment law adopted during the day does in any good way. Otherwise, there is reason to add that the start of this legislative work, which led to the law decision in June, was achieved by the establishment of the so-called Labour Law Committee, which the Stoltenberg government in its time put down. It was justified by a great need to modernise the Work Environment Act, and when the government made its proposal, the father of the Working Environment Act – i.e. the original Work Environment Act, from the 1970s – Thorbjørn Berntsen said that there were no heavy reasons for mobilising the great war against government's legislative proposals. This should have been noticed, but it was clearly completely overlooked by the current government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e381	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e384	Norway has one of the world's most efficient economies, and despite, or perhaps because, we also have and have had a good work environment law and good pay and working conditions. Yes, because we take care of the labour force, the human resource, which is the most important, we also show good economic results. It shows that the conflict between having a very good protection law and a high level of well-being and being effective, competitive and successful does not actually exist. The purpose of what we are going to do today is precisely to make even better use of what is the country's most important resource, that of labour. Because if we look at society now, we see that one of the really big problems is exclusion from work, exclusion from working life, and that more and more powers to stand to retirement age. We all agree when we discuss these questions in a slightly larger perspective. Then we have to look at how laws and regulations regulate the labour market are an important part of this. In addition, we have adopted the framework for a pension reform that appears to be such that we expect people to stand even longer before they can get full pension. Then it becomes even more important that the framework around those who are going to be in the labour market becomes so that it allows more people to enter, to be there and to be at retirement age. In addition, the Labour Environment Act also deals with the distribution of power in society. I'll get into that later. But one of the important things about such a law is to reflect what is most important in its purpose. Therefore, SV is very happy that we are now getting a protection law, as the Working Environment Act was. The point of that is that there's nothing old-fashioned at all. It's actually something very modern, new in political life, and it's a modern thing that we should keep. It says something important about exactly what I started with, that the labour force is the most important resource, which a country has to take care of and manage sensibly in such a way that both individuals and society get the most out of it, and that there is no harm and exploitation. One of the grips that the previous government was very concerned about was removing some of the provisions that were based on the structure of the law. I then need to quote what the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work wrote about such changes in the legislation on the environment at work, when it comes to simplifying and removing individual regulations such as: provided the individual employee with the opportunity to seek advice and assistance from the trustee, e.g. in the case of overtime. They wrote: «The question, however, is which groups need to be met in situations where, for example, employees and employers have different interests or where the weakest groups of workers may have quite different interests compared to the «young and strong». An example of the transition to regulatory framework is the change in the overtime arrangements already adopted in 2003. Detailed provisions on overtime were then removed. This means that more general rules are now in place to ensure that working hours do not expose people to adverse stress, health or safety risks. Increased competition imposes high ‘overtime’ requirements.’ Then it is not difficult to see who wins in such a situation, and then in many industries there will be very high expectations of increased overtime beyond normal working hours. It can have great consequences for many. This means that keeping a relatively detailed provision in such areas is a political purpose: it is known that detailed provisions protect those who compete the worst for themselves and alone. Important considerations for this government and for the Swedish government are that we should have legal provisions that take account of those who compete the worst. Those who compete well compete very well racing. There are changes in the world of work that make more people have free jobs, as well as many who want more flexibility, and I welcome the opposition's support, among other things. for the 6-hour trial, etc., which can give people an increase in that flexibility. It might be interesting to see. But there are still large groups of workers who cannot benefit from it. The other side of it is that even in those professions where a person wants more flexibility, it is what is called the honey trap, which is quite familiar: many professions are very exciting. There will be a lack of transition between work and leisure, and people will end up as completely burned out and worn out 30-year-olds. I find it hard to imagine that those people are able to stand by retirement age, which we now want more and more people to do. The relationship between ill health and overtime is also known. When we dealt with the matter in ours, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work presented a whole series of international studies that showed how overtime and not least shifts to New Public Management and to the right-hand side created a lot of uncertainty, a lot of health problems and a lot of exclusion from the world of work. That research clearly showed that people get sick from it. Therefore, it is important for SV and for the Government to regulate this so that we reduce the risk for more people. So to the question of more temporary employment. There have already been many rounds of it today. The possibility of several temporary jobs does not lead to more jobs and more employees. Unfortunately, it doesn't. It is also true that those who wear the shoes, namely those who are disabled and disabled, are quite unambiguous in their advice to us that this does not work for them, among other things. because employers have to organise jobs more for people with disabilities than for those with disabilities. I have to say that if it had been me who should have hired someone and been an economical employer, I would of course have chosen the one for which I did not need to arrange, if my need was temporary. It is also true that today there are many temporary employees, so the law is neither demanding nor impossible to practice. It's very practical. There are several aspects that are not included in this proposition that we dealt with in ours, which we want to get back to when it comes to forward propositions. These include: on changes in the labour market, which we have seen very clearly in recent years, among other things. the ownership, i.e. on the employer’s side, has been given very complex ownership structures. It has not been properly reflected as the law now exists. A sample was set up, the Concert Committee, which had completed its work in 1999, and it addressed these problems, in several areas, among others. this with what kind of responsibility a main contractor, if I'm going to use that term, has for what happens to subcontractors, or subcontractors, and to the hired employees. This would be natural to follow up further, because courts have also stated that there may be a need for an extended concept of employer, so that you can follow it in time, and ensure that you have a law that deals with the situation in some of the jobs that may be most difficult to control, and in some of the jobs where we know today that there is a circumvention of both this law and perhaps also legislation relating to other aspects of it, including: to social dumping. So here SV meets that you go through the law in the future and among other things. improve this. Finally, as regards the practice of overtime provisions, I would just like to draw attention to what is in the position, namely the intention of the majority to reduce overtime, both in terms of volume limitation and the delimitation of the proportion to be exempted from the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e413	The representative had two relationships, both with overtime and temporary employment. Let me first ask a question about temporary employment, namely that temporary employment does not lead to more jobs and more employees. Yesterday I was contacted by two companies from Tøndelag who have largely used temporary employment to obtain fixed-term employment, which works very well. The problem is that some companies have to start sending people home if this law is realized. What evidence is Andersen referring to? At least it could be good for Stortinget to know, when you see that it's not the case that it is. The second is that more and more people want flexibility in their everyday lives and want to work overtime. How will Andersen capture that flexibility? Or is it that the representative wants to expand the concept of ‘free, independent jobs’?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e421	This line must be due to a few misunderstandings. The law that the representative refers to the use of these holdings is firm. That is the law we intend to proceed with. So these companies can continue to have temporary employees, like today. There is no curtailment in relation to today's law. The law that was passed in ours has never been outlawed and not practiced. The reason why we are not worried about this is that it is completely possible to have temporary employees. So to the last one, I would recommend the representative to read what's in the setting. It says that the intention to tighten in is firm. It's about the rules on overtime, a decision that we're actually making today. Then we warn that we should go through this concept, because the intention to delimit the group that should be able to work more overtime is also firm. We're going to come back to that when the sample has investigated this, so that we get a limit in the law that it's possible to relate to and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e428	The government's proposals for the reversal of the Working Environment Act have been met with strong and heavy-weight protests from many teams, among others. from the Central Federation of Municipalities – KS. KS is an organisation that the current government parties often borrowed for when they were in opposition. I hope, therefore, that it makes a certain impression that KS gives the Government's proposal a set of defining factors on a number of important points – I quote from the hearing opinion: ‘There is now a risk that new employment will be reduced. Not least for the local government sector, such a decoration will improve the recruitment situation for groups that will be much needed in the future.’» In the nations on 30 November, KS states among others: the reversal of the Working Environment Act ‘causes municipalities to buy more services in the market in order to meet temporary needs’. Don't these powerful warnings from KS at all impress on the representative Karin Andersen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e445	No, SV recognizes – to put it that way – old-fashioned employers’ policies, no matter who they are. With regard to the municipal sector, this government will be able to employ many more people in the jobs you need, and it will improve in the future. We also look critically at employers in the public sector – among others. in the municipal sector – such as: employs a very large number of people in small jobs, with small job breaks, and who want to use temporary jobs — but not to build up skills and ensure good working conditions for employees. Then we're equally critical, whether it's a public or a private employer. We want more people to be able to stand in the full-time position and to get a permanent job. But we want to support the local government sector with an economy that allows it both to hire those they need and to afford to give good working conditions to its employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e454	Following the examination of the Labour Environment Act in June, the Co-operation Government took initiatives towards the social partners in order to make them discuss and concrete how the principle of equal working time for different working time schemes with the same degree of stress would be implemented in practice. This was done on the basis of a broad majority comment. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government parties are now supporting this process. Is the representative Karin Andersen satisfied that the outgoing government followed up this comment so quickly and established cooperation between the parties? If the parties were not to reach an agreement, would the SV's divergent position in the case from June become the Government's position? Or will SV once again have to move when they now have to take responsibility for their opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e461	The tempo in the matter of rotation and shift is SV and I'm not particularly satisfied with it, because it's a matter that has a history of over ten years, which has been an injustice that has been lying there all along, and that we all know about. But we kind of got a revolution in it in ours when we discussed it, and we're very happy that the previous government started a work to get this in place. For SV, this is a very important matter. This was actually the first document No. The 8-proposal I made at Stortinget the first week I was here to put this in place eight years ago, so here's our impatience. But we feel confident that the government that is now standing firm for what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on this issue, and is leading the matter into port, because it is totally unreasonable that positions that are in turn, and that have the same burden as those that go in three-part shifts, should have different working hours and thus be rewarded differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e471	Work is our most important asset of well-being. It is a vital source of income for most of us and provides tax revenues that ensure a good public welfare offer. Work brings together others, and the workplace is a place where each individual spends considerable time and commitment. The vast majority of the Nordics thrive at work. They get challenges that are manageable, have a good relationship with their employer and appreciate their association with colleagues at work. It is important to remember this in a debate on the Working Environment Act. Long before the election campaign and in the campaign itself, very emotional concepts have been used about how raw and brutal work is, and how much more raw and brutal it would be with the changes that the previous government proposed. Maybe full-time employees at Youngstorget think this is true, but it doesn't fit the reality of the day. The Labour Environment Act shall ensure that long-term protection concerns are not forgotten or neglected by employers and employees. It shall promote a working life to create values. It is the safest basis for having jobs at all in the longer term. But there has to be a clear framework for how these values are created, so that it does not happen at the expense of workers' physical and mental health. The aim of the Labour Environment Act, as formulated by the previous government, is to ensure that the law contributes to a health-promoting working life and an inclusive working life in line with the needs of workers, businesses and society. It is strange that the new government does not see that these three have a common interest in ensuring the working environment that results in an inclusive working life. The CSR strengthened the legal position of employees. Employers' obligation to facilitate fully sound psychosocial employment, the right to flexible working hours, the right to take advantage of part-time employees in the event of new employment, and the clearer timescales for temporary employment were some of these points. In other respects, employers’ risks of new employment were reduced and the individual employer and employee were given greater confidence and freedom of contract. The labour market is becoming less uniform. Therefore, there was a need for a more framework law, but still with clear frameworks that ensured protection. For the Christian People's Party, it was – and is – an important goal of building down the barriers between those inside and those outside the labour market. The LO is probably pleased with the changes in the law adopted by the government parties today. But in the Christian People's Party's opinion, the less well-organized workers or jobseekers have the most reason to complain about the decisions taken today. There will be no more jobs by increasing the risk of new employment for employers. There will be no fewer unemployed persons by stimulating firms to impose overtime rather than temporarily employing them. There will be no more workers who will have an influence on the organisation of their own working hours when the freedom of contract is restricted. There will be no more entrepreneurs who will invest in their own business when they feel that the Government is blowing off all their arguments about flexibility in the start-up phase. It is not in the pact with the goal of an inclusive working life to strengthen the gap between the established and those with a weaker relationship with the labour market, as I believe the government parties do. I have noticed that the KS says that there will be no more permanent jobs with a return to § 58 A of the law today, and they regret the reversal at a time when there is a need for recruitment. They also remind us that 13 out of 16 members of the Labour Law Committee want an embellishment. The government party's argumentation and reversing in the case of so-called particularly independent positions is strange. At the same time, if detailed working time regulations are really important for the protection of workers, it is very poor to exempt a significant working group from the same protection. During the hearings, our positions were shared by all employee organisations, including LO. The co-operation government's bill was a clear law of protection. But it was more forward-looking, more balanced and fairer than the law that might be passed today. I therefore still recommend the law as it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e500	It was violent to love the old government parties have got to the KS in terms of one single case. All other matters KS has addressed in the last few years, not least increased transfers to Kommune-Norway, were clearly rejected by these parties. That's interesting. Too many people are coming out of work today. Work life is too much tough and brutal. There is a need for a warmer, more human and more inclusive working life in Norway. I've heard many times Woie Duesund and others from the Christian People's Party talk about that we need a warmer and more human society, a warmer and more inclusive working life. My question is quite simply: how does this harmonize with the party's view of the liberalisation that the party stands for in the field of labour protection law?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e507	It may not be so strange that we quote KS quite a lot, because at the hearing KS actually agreed with us on all points except one. So I don't think it's nice. That's the same thing the Workers' Party does in relation to the LO. In the case of a warmer society, we believe that the most important and greatest distinction today is between those who have work and those who have no work. The distinction does not exist between temporary staff and permanent staff. The important thing is to have a job. We believe that temporary employment is a good way to get into working life. There are groups that until now have been outside. These have been mentioned by disabled people, young people and immigrants. The best thing we can do is get them work, even temporary employment. Then we've lowered the threshold to get in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e514	It's true that the big difference in society is between those who have work and those who don't have work. Then it becomes very important that the law in this area ensures both that people get work – at least for SV, this is to have a job that we see as a right – and that working conditions should be sound for everyone, even for those who cannot provide for a maximum of time. Then I am a little surprised that the Christian People's Party is so eager to listen to just one side of this matter. They will not listen to the organisations of disabled people and will not listen to them, for example. The National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, which has thoroughly documented how increased overtime leads to exclusion, sickness and early death, and makes us unable to get a healthy working environment. Not least, it means that those who currently compete poorly in the labour market will neither come in nor be there. Why does the Christian People's Party not listen to, for example? the research in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e520	I can sign that the Christian People's Party is listening to the research. Much of what is now said about temporary employment actually applies in relation to overtime. The reason why we defend temporary employment is not that it leads to more employment, but that people who are already at work work work more overtime, and we have to limit overtime. So here we have a different angle of incidence. We agree that we should have a broad framework, with opportunities to have flexibility and to negotiate within it individually. But we're going to try to bring down overtime. We agree on that. When it comes to having good opportunities, it is not possible to give different pay, different training, etc. to employees only because they are temporarily employed. There's a lot in the law on equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e527	I note with some apprehension that the representatives of both the Advance Party, the Right Party and now also the Christian People's Party block any information other than from the LO in terms of taking in the views of the employee organisations. There is a lot of expertise and knowledge in several organisations – which may be a part of us closer than LO – that have expressed themselves but are completely ignored. What I especially wanted to ask about, is, with the background of the Christian People's Party's strong commitment to disabled people and immigrants in working life, why they believe that temporary employment in that context will be an opening for disabled people in particular. I record – and I have been informed by the disabled people’s own organisations – that they reject this as an important input into this context. They do not support the opening of temporary employment as an element of bringing them into the labour market. Why, then, is the Christian People’s Party so strongly attached to it? Does not the Christian People's Party also listen to the FFO and the others?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e534	Yes, we're all listening. When, for example: in the case of exceptions to the working time provision for particularly independent jobs, we actually listen to all the employees’ organisations – LO, YS, UNIO and the academics – who agree with us. We're actually really listening to them. In the case of people with disabilities, I insist that the most important thing for them is to get an opportunity to try out in the workplace. It's the most important thing. In the event of temporary employment, a threshold is lower for them to enter the labour market, but there is also a need for many other instruments to enable disabled people to remain in the labour market. Here we have a job to do all of them. If the Center Party is interested in this, I find it strange that they were not involved in pursuing a slightly more active feedback policy. In the budget we strengthened that particular entry, and it's a shame that the government parties did not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e544	I'm glad that we from the Centre Party can be part of a new majority that stops the introduction of a work environment law that would in several areas weaken the security and predictability developed in the world of work. I am pleased that we are once again getting a purpose paragraph that continues to focus the current legislation on worker protection. I am pleased that we are getting back into place provisions that state that temporary employment should be an exception and regular working conditions the general rule. I am pleased that we are putting in place again provisions that call for the normal working day by stopping substantial liberalisation of the overtime provisions. The minority of the Committee regrets in its vote on the Odelstinget that the Government has not found it necessary to carry out a broad consultation on the proposals we are now considering. It is difficult to see what such a consultation round would bring about in addition to what appeared before the examination of the same case six months ago. However, the Committee has carried out its consultation. I record that there is a clear perception from the employee organisations that the legislative changes that were adopted at the June session weakened employee interests, and that they therefore thank the new government for stopping the implementation of that law. After a time of free labour in an enlarged EEA area, we receive daily information on a discussion of working life where the working environment is challenged. Workers from Eastern Europe are welcomed as labour, but with a wage that is far from the Norwegian level, including where the Law on Public Works has been implemented, with housing conditions under any criticism, and with major deficiencies in protection and security measures. We are also faced with a wide-ranging debate on how to deal with new EU directives that could challenge Norwegian employment. The implementation of the objective of freer movement of services within the EU, and thus the EEA territory, may be a testament to whether the right of reservation we negotiated through the EEA Agreement has the meaning that our negotiators at the time said it would have. In this situation, I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget emphasises our work environment law as a protection law for employees. What we need today is the opposite of the minority's proposal to change the focus of the Working Environment Act, away from the employee and across to market needs. Temporary employment is among the main issues there is a great deal of disagreement about the parties. We have approx. 10 pst. by the labour force in temporary employment today. Is there therefore a need to facilitate this form of employment to be significantly increased in our working life? I register that there is a marked distinction in the perception of this between the employers’ organisations and the employee’s organisations. While it is important to facilitate a well-functioning working life, it is also important to ensure employment security for employees. I record that more people in this room are pushing immigrants, young people and people with disabilities in front of them in the fight for a working life based on temporary employment. I have not seen that these groups, according to their own interests, have been drivers of such a development, on the contrary. In the treatment we have today under the Working Environment Act, there are major questions, in principle, that need to be clarified. In the committee position, we have also raised a matter of more concrete importance for a limited part of the working life. An overall committee assumes that the ‘participation scheme’ practised by several housing and treatment collectives is not affected by the decisions now taken in the Working Environment Act. The 'Participation scheme', which means that employees have their housing in relation to the institution or live in the institution for longer periods, is a valuable form of operation in the field of child protection and in treatment institutions in the field of drug care, and it is important to protect them. The scheme is ensured by a regulation based on the part of the Working Environment Act that is not being amended today. I am pleased that the Committee nevertheless emphasises the importance of the continuation of the regulation, thereby creating predictability and security for the institutions and employees who focus on the continuation of this type of employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e566	In the program of the Centre Party we find the following program formulations in which I and the Right agree with the heart: «to review laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to municipal activities with a view to more framework management and less detailed management» [[...]] The Centre Party is now in favour of legislative changes involving more detailed management of the municipalities, against the advice of the municipalities, which small businesses experience as problematic and hindering start-ups, and which deprive each employee of the opportunity to find good, individually adapted agreements with their employer. Of course, it is nice that the representative Sundsbø is happy – he seemed very happy in the post – but I see it as a diversion because he and the Center party are now at full speed away from their own program. Has informal discussions between some trade union representatives and representatives of the Central Party now override the party programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e578	Martin Engeset has obviously not taken the time to read the parts of the programme that deal with working life and regulation of relations related to it. There he would find that what we are in today's work environment law is included – almost the sentence sentence. So we have reason to be satisfied with what we assume is today's decision. With regard to our relationship with the Landsorganisation, Engeset has probably noticed that I have repeatedly called here today for what kind of ears and eyes the other parties must have in relation to what other organisations have signaled. I think that's what we in the Center Party stand for. We like to listen to the organisations in the workplace. But we listen to everyone, and focus on it being listened to by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e585	The centre party opted for an active district policy. The left is in full agreement. There is a strong commitment to local business development and to the best possible living conditions. It is by ensuring local business development and creating jobs that we can really secure the future in Norway. We want a population that is distributed both in the towns and cities. I just have to note that the Centre Party now chooses to contribute to Norway having a change in occupational health and safety legislation, such as: The KS has stated that it is in a one-sided favour of the employee. KS has also stated that with these changes, municipalities must increasingly buy services instead of employing people. Does the representative Sundsbø believe that these changes contribute to an active district policy that ensures innovation and new jobs in rural areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e592	Firstly, changes in the Working Environment Act, it is said. What we are going to do today is to ensure that the current provisions that are being practised today are continued and that the changes that the Stortinget adopted in June are not introduced. So today's work environment law, as practised around the country, is being passed on. As I said, I'm glad. Then there was this thing about district policy. It is great that the Left will now help the Government to pursue a more active district policy. It needs this country. But it is not that we set employees' interests against an active district policy. It is not the case that an active district policy would weaken the general interests and rights of workers in the labour market. It's a mistake that we just have to ignore; we have to move on to building jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e599	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e603	The issue we are dealing with today makes the difference between the policies of the Labour Party-dominated Government and a policy aimed at creating a flexible, innovative and good working life for both employees and employers. Where the previous government had found a good balance between the different considerations, the Stoltenberg government is now proposing changes that will mean less flexibility, less new initiative and – paradoxically – less protection for a significant group of workers. The Government reverses the decision to increase the possibility of temporary employment. It reverses an important incentive to let more people try their jobs. A work environment law shall ensure those who are in work, but it shall also provide room for those who are outside and who wish to enter. Access to temporary employment provides for the possibility of getting a foot within. So where people who have problems establishing themselves in the labour market should be given greater opportunities, the government chooses to tighten up. It underscores both KS and Aetat. It is also clear that for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and for the seasonally-emphasised working life, the impact on temporary employment will be considerable. In particular, this will affect business in the districts. It's a fact that you need to know your pay in the long term in order to be able to hire permanently. Small enterprises in a start-up and development phase may be difficult to know about that ability. First, it has to be invested. The consequence may therefore be that no one is employed at all. The ability and ability of small enterprises to invest and grow will in many cases be linked to opportunities for a flexible workforce. Among other things, the KS states that it is striking that the Government does not want a work environment legislation that also takes into account the needs of enterprises for a certain degree of flexibility. One would think that it was worth listening to such statements. The Stoltenberg Government’s proposal maintains the distinction between private and public employers’ access to temporary employment. At the same time, the Government wants government employees to have employment protection provisions other than municipal and private employees. I will go as long as to call this highly unreasonable. The paradox is that when the Government makes anti-business and district choices, they at the same time sacrifice a significant group to stand without the protection of working time. The formerly referred to as ‘leading positions’ was exempt from the terms of employment. It shall now also apply to ‘specially independent posts’. The organisation Academics believes that as many as one million workers will be unprotected. It is close to believing that the government parties here choose to sacrifice large professional groups among highly educated people in order to meet the requirements of the LO. The left has a particularly strong commitment to institutions for the protection of young people who practise the co-livery system. That is why we are also pleased that the Committee is prepared to maintain this. We are concerned that child protection and care should be able to offer different types of treatment, as different people need different types of treatment. In order to ensure the future of these non-profit institutions, we are concerned that the Government ensures the legal basis for their operation by making today's temporary regulation permanent. With today’s decision, the Government confirms that they want a development for Norway that puts a brake on increased flexibility in the labour market. It confirms a policy that reduces the possibility of offensive investment in new small and medium-sized enterprises, not least in districts. This is done at the same time as a large group of academics are to be excluded from important provisions. So this is the much-mentioned red-green course, as practiced by a labor party-dominated government. In particular, for seasonal work and small businesses in the whole country, this is not a joyous day. Where the Bondevik government took important steps forward, the Stoltenberg government chooses to take the same steps backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e623	In the Left's argument to allow for further use of temporary employment, there is a line shared by the entire opposition. It appears that the view is that regulated working life hinders the growth of employment. We have a good protection. We have high contractual coverage, and we have good regulation of the labour markets. But we also have very high employment coverage. What's the problem in a lot of industries is the lack of skilled labour. You say you should hire so many more if they become temporary employees. Which branches is what the Left believes this will happen in? Do you think there are very many skilled workers who accept temporary employment, when there is actually a great need for permanent employees in these companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e628	Some of the challenges that Mr Henriksen is pointing out here are that the newly established companies that we will receive will demand a lot of expertise. If these businesses are to have a life in the future, as they know nothing about when they are newly established, they are dependent on predictability in relation to the temporary. Otherwise, they also wanted to chase a lot of people into a disaster. I have to say that it is the opposite kind of solidarity that you now show in many ways, when you have a door to those who are outside, because the law itself is in many ways a protection law for those who are within the working life. We also need a law that makes it possible to get into the workplace. It will enable the highly qualified graduates to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e633	It was part of the representative of Skkelstad's posts that I believe cannot be undisputed. The academic view that there is one million workers to be exempted from the overtime rules makes him an image of the government's and this majority's policies. It's directly wrong. I want to quote from what's in the setting: ‘in order to comply with the exceptions, it is not sufficient to control its own working time and/or to have a flexible working time. [[...]] The exemptions apply to workers who themselves prioritize their duties, who decide what to do, what to delegate to others, when to do the work and how to carry out the work. Working in a project is not sufficient.» It also states that it has been noted that the current practice of the exemption provisions may be contrary to the intention of the provisions, that the intention to reduce the use of overtime is firm, and that the legislation must ensure this both in terms of overtime volume limits and to limit the proportion. Does the Left not see that this is in the configuration?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e643	I am recording that Andersen's representative is more concerned with the low-wage and LO employees. That's good. But I also think it would have been interesting to have had with the highly educated and academics, and that the same rules had applied to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e648	If the representative of Skelstad had been busy listening to the academics: it's probably only at one point Skelstad does, while at all other points he ignores them completely. It's worth noting – I'm sure the academics do too. What I want to ask about is temporary employment. Research has shown that temporary employment refers to people who end up in a situation of lower wages and poorer social inclusion in the workplace. Then you want to significantly expand it. The representative of Skkelstad says that his ambition is to establish a flexible and more innovative working life. Then the question becomes: Is increased access to temporary employment the tool that is so innovative that it will give us this, and with the problems I mention here? Or is it that you completely ignore these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e655	The representative Sundsbø calls for tools in relation to an innovative working life. We'd like to have a longer debate on that than right now. The flexible working time system helps to bring forward the innovative and what we have the opportunity to create also in the districts, which I record that the representative Sundsbø and I agree. But it's the flexible arrangements that make those who are out of work, and those who have come from an education, also have the opportunity to get into work. That's often the first job this could be about. I would like to say that this will be a protection law also in relation to those who are outside, because we must have the opportunity to let those workers into the labour market as well. Then I believe that temporary flexibility contributes to creating growth, creating growth also for start-ups, and for skills businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e660	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e663	Let me first say that it has been very interesting to sit and follow along in a good debate on important questions. For me, it is important to stress that the Government will contribute to a working life with room for all. Strengthening the protection of workers, good regulation of working conditions and safe employment are important contributions to this objective. This government made proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act in line with the objective of an inclusive working life. Our proposal confirms that the Working Environment Act is and will be a protection law. The change we're proposing in the purpose paragraph makes this clear. A good protection law for employees is at least as important as before. The labour market is becoming tougher, the pace is increasing, and sometimes one can get the impression that businesses are more often than before putting short-term profitability considerations ahead of long-term and prevention. In such a situation it would be wrong to weaken workers' protection. Greater speed, pressure and short-term business needs to be updated and safeguarded, not a reduction. Of course, workers must be assured of being forced into unworthy employment. But a good work environment law will also cause businesses to do what is best for themselves in the longer term. This means that they have to take prevention seriously. Employers themselves, over time, will lose a great deal of effort on the part of workers, become less productive and increasingly need to change to social security. The strong liberalisation of access to temporary employment granted to the previous government will be eliminated if our proposal is given a majority today. One in ten is already temporarily employed today – that's enough. Permanent employment shall be the general rule. Permanent employment provides security so that life can be planned. In line with the Government Declaration, we have also made proposals for changes to the rules of the law on the right to continue in the position during a notice dispute, on overtime and on the average calculation of working time. Furthermore, we aim to return to a new proposition during the spring of 2006 on the regulation and entry into force of the alert/freedom to provide services in working conditions. Examples of topics that could also be discussed are the regulation of passive work and home watch and the right to vote in the event of transfer of activities. Furthermore, I would like to say something about the discussion related to working time for workers with a particularly independent job. First of all, we're going to go on with the actual right. What is now being proposed is nothing new. The tightening of the overtime framework proposed by the Government strengthens the protection of workers. The government did not find it appropriate in this exercise to propose both tightening up the working time framework and extending the scope of the working time rules, but considers it more appropriate to await the studies notified. It is claimed that advisers, consultants, engineers, lawyers, etc. will now be exempted from working time rules. This isn't right. It is necessary to consider specifically for each position whether it is to be considered to be particularly independent. And, above all, both the preparatory work on the law and the majority position of the committee clearly show that this provision should be understood more strictly than what is referred to in the media. It's uncertain how many fall outside. This uncertainty was also one of the reasons why a unanimous growth asked the government to launch an inquiry on the question. Once such a study has been carried out, we will have a better basis for assessing the effects of any change. With these proposals, the government has taken a long step towards implementing some of the most important points in our government statement. I am happy to say that we are now getting a modern protection permit for the workers in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e693	I will continue to put the search light on the relationship between the Workers' Party, SV and LO. As you know, the Labour Party and SV received a million in support of the election campaign. In addition, as is known, LO has a permanent place in the Central Government of the Workers Party. So here you're sitting on all the sides of the table. In the fight for temporary employment, I have the impression that the repayment of the million amounts has started. When you hear the councillor and perhaps not least the committee leader, Karin Andersen, talk about the weak in society and about the fight against poverty, a listener, because this is to a large extent a struggle between those who are outside the labour market and who are largely not organized – in other words those who are outside and weakest – and those who have work and are organized, preferably in LO, from whom they received the million aid. Is this the fight against poverty and for the weakest in society, or do you have a bit of a dull taste in your mouth?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e702	It is not that those who are out of work are not organized. Very many of them that we are concerned with involving in the work force, and that today feel closed out, are organized. Their main organisation in this way is the FFO, the Joint Organisation of the Disabled. There are very large groups that are currently engaged in an inclusive working life and to open up what they experience as an exclusion. I've been very busy listening to the advice they have to give. They provide clear advice – a clear advice: Do not do what the Progress Party wants – for all – to open up to more temporary employment. That will be what will lead us more permanently out of work than what we are today. Here we have listened both to the LO and to other employee organisations, but also to those who are excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e711	It is a fact that very few disputes about dismissal go to the last court. Most of the cases are settled long before that time, by the employer offering a final package. The size of the final packages will be clearly influenced by the law adopted today by the length of time that the employer will have to expect before the final court can deal with an appeal. That time is known much longer than what was the intention when the applicable law was introduced. I have three questions for the Council of State. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for an employer to pay out of a dispute, even in cases where a neutral right actually states that the employer has acted correctly? Does the Council of State consider this to be a barrier to or promote conflict in the labour market? Thirdly, if the Council of State agrees that this is a matter of principle and not a question of the size of the final packages, what will he do to reduce the appeal time in such disputes to what was the original intention when this paragraph was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e718	What has been the most important thing for the Government in this context is that we believe that it is to those degrees a part of what should be a general understanding of how the courts should operate in Norwegian society, namely that a judgment should not have full consequences until it is legally enforceable. I'd say it's all over the area by area. Take, for example: one who has committed a significant criminal act. Very often, this person will not be subject to detention until there is a final judgment. What the previous government put up here was that you could risk losing your job even if the judgment was not just. That is against me and, I think, against the great majority of the Norwegian people's sense of justice – therefore this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e725	The government opposes the clear simplification that would make job protection provisions the same for government officials as for municipal and private sector employees. Such harmonisation would also be an act of more equality and justice in the labour market. My questions to the Council of State are: Is there any rational reason in government employers' policy that job protection provisions should be different for government employees than for the rest of the world of work? Is the State a worse employer? Is there a higher level of job insecurity in the country than is usual in the labour market? Does government employees have lower wages than those in the municipal sector with the same educational background, experience and responsibility? Is there any reason to grant one group of workers special rights that others do not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e732	The Civil Service Act is under the constitutional responsibility of another State Council, but I will nevertheless choose to answer the following: The Minister of Renewal has repeatedly said that she is prepared to review and adapt the Civil Service Act on different points. She will start a work related to it, among others. look at the fact that the decisions taken by the Odelstinget today make practices different to those of the Working Environment Act and of the Civil Service Act in some areas. But it's going to happen in a completely different way and through a significantly better process than the previous government was able to add up to. It was a review of the Civil Service Act that was ongoing in conflict – and in war, almost – with the employees. We want a review of this law in a good process with the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e737	As the Council of State is well aware, Aetat believes that temporary employment is a useful way of entering the labour market also for groups such as women and men. Young first-time jobseekers and non-Western immigrants. I have a question for the Council of State: if a young, newly-trained jobseeker receives the choice between a temporary employment on regular terms in public or private activities and an action position and AMO course, what does the Council of State Aetat think would recommend to that jobseeker? And if the Council of State had had the opportunity, what would he recommend the applicant to choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e744	I think it was a rather eye-catching approach to this debate. It's clear that you could cancel all collective agreements, all the laws, and if the option was to go out of work or work for $5 per person. hour, what would you recommend? When we sit in this room and we're going to make a law for an inclusive working life into the future, I think we're going to have a rather different perspective than the representative of Skkelstad has defended from this pulpit today. If the level of ambition is to be at the level that Skjelstad seems to have, it's clear that we're going to come out with a law that's significantly weakened in relation to what we have. But that it should be the basis on which the Norwegian society, the Norwegian labour market, will build its standard in the future, I am fortunately pleased that it is not a majority of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e751	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e754	We know that today's business has become increasingly competitive, and there is more and more globalisation in business. That, of course, is good. However, it also means having a modern regulatory framework and a modern adaptation that will enable the business community in Norway to remain competitive in the future. We must have competitive companies, and we must have good employees. Then it is important that we have a work environment law that is adapted and modernised in such a way that we can achieve those objectives. Unfortunately, I feel that the majority position we are discussing today is a strong step back in relation to the decision taken by the Stortinget in June. Let me, for example. Take what goes on overtime. We know from surveys that very many of today's workers want more flexibility in their working situation. You want more flexibility to be able to realize the desire for better time. In fact, many people want to work more overtime in periods, in order to be able to adapt. Studies also show that many people want more leisure time rather than higher wages. That's why I think it's a pity that today's changes to the Working Environment Act restrict this and make it more difficult for the modern employee to organize better. Looking at studies from the KS, they show that health and care professionals prefer so-called wish-tourism schemes. In fact, many could expect to work on weekends, others prefer evening shifts, and others prefer to work only in the daytime. This is why it is important to have a work environment law that is adapted to the needs of individuals and to the wishes of individuals. I stress that KS, like the minority in this hall, has warned of the changes that the government is making, precisely on the basis of this. So for temporary employment: I think it is very regrettable that the government restricts access to temporary employment. I note that the business community itself believes that it will clearly damage employment in general and, in particular, affect the weakest groups of jobseekers. I also note that the majority parties in this Chamber disagree with that. Does that mean that the majority of businesses themselves are unable to assess the situation, are unable to see the consequences, see what is good and what is bad? I trust that business itself, which operates in the market, is the best way to capture this, is to see what type of employment and flexibility we need, and what will also benefit the employees. I also register when we look back at the treatment of Ot.prp. No 49 for 2004–2005, that Aetat agreed on the extension of access to temporary employment. It was precisely on the basis of the experience they themselves had as a broker of jobs, that they thought this was appropriate. It is therefore very disappointing and regrettable that the majority in this Chamber ignores the experience that Aetat has gained over many years. It's also interesting to note NHO's investigation, which also the representative Engeset from the Right was in on, where it found that 90 pst. by the enterprises preferred permanent employees, while 86 pst. believed that increased access to temporary employment was important. 75 pst. said they would have hired more people if access to temporary employment had been extended. This is also an example of a Fafo report, based on a study and an observation that has gone over two years. I think it's too easy not to focus on these studies, the experience you have, more than the government's adding up. I also find it disappointing that you do not get a response from the representative Karin Andersen when you ask what documentation she is looking for, when she says that temporary employment does not lead to more jobs and more new jobs. It's strange that business itself records the opposite. But it doesn't record Karin Andersen. It would have been interesting for Stortinget to get what documentation she is relying on. Finally, I think it is a significant point that one is now proposing a reintroduction of the existing law. It is also interesting to note that, in a 2001 judgment, the Supreme Court has clarified that the law is not to be applied to the word. I think it is both very unfortunate and incomprehensible that the Government will promote a legislative proposal that is not to be taken into account, thus creating many problems of interpretation. Is what the Government believes is a clear, good, forward-looking modern work environment law – i.e. a law that creates uncertainty, a law for more procedures in the judiciary and such things? I mean, it's not. That is why we would have needed a clean-up, a clear modernisation and a simplification, which would have led to better and more flexible arrangements in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e773	The representative Engeset said this was a sad day. I think this is a happy day. It's a good day for Norwegian work, it's a good day for Norwegian workers, and it's a good day for everyone going into work. It's actually also a good day for business. If the work environment law adopted in June had remained in place, there would have been a threat in relation to the tripartite cooperation between the authorities and social partners on which all Norwegian labour law and our entire contract work are based. Historically, the authorities have played a crucial role in balancing the situation in the labour market. It was quite serious when the Bondevik II government led the way to weaken worker protection. What's happening today is that the country's workers will again have the necessary trust in the law, and that's good for the whole community and the whole social development. Temporary jobs – again: I have to say that I am also wondering about the argument when it is produced as if this would temporarily provide many more jobs. It is the law of the day and the order of the day that will actually continue to apply. And it's not impossible to hire people temporarily in Norway, on the contrary. There are many temporary employees, in too many industries, as has been said earlier today. Norway is approx. 11 pst., i.e. approximately on the OECD average, in the case of temporary additives. The OECD has been mentioned and studies therefrom show that it is not the unemployed who fill the temporary posts. Of those temporarily employed throughout the OECD region in 2000, approximately 65 pst. have been in employment the previous year, probably in other temporary posts. ==References== 15 pst. had been in education. Only approx. 12 pst. of the temporary staff in the OECD area had been unemployed before receiving their temporary job. And so this is a country with much greater unemployment than Norway has. Furthermore, a significant proportion go from temporary job to unemployment. The majority of those who go into permanent employment are between 25 and 34 years old, have received higher education and have never been unemployed. There is no doubt that temporary employees have a lower salary, more irregular working hours, fewer benefits, poor training and less satisfaction with the job than permanent employees. They even have fewer children because of an economically uncertain future. So the picture is that temporary employment can be a stepping stone for those who get a job anyway, while a significant number of workers remain stuck in poor, temporary jobs or in the exchange between unemployment and temporary jobs. In particular, they are those with the least education and the worst starting point. Increased access to temporary employment is therefore not even for the benefit of those who are unemployed at a given time. On the other hand, it is doubtful for employers who can replace permanent employees with temporary workers without rights. It would at least have cleared the air if the opponents of this could be honest enough to say that this is also some of the reasons. Extended access to temporary employment will create even more unsafe conditions for jobseekers who are really insecure enough as it is. In other words, reduced job protection does not reduce the number of unemployed, but it can lead to other unemployed persons. Nor is there any basis for claiming that temporary employment facilitates access to the labour market for young people, immigrants and disabled people, rather on the contrary. Simpler access to temporary employment will, of course, lead to fewer permanent jobs. One might wonder why the bourgeois parties believe that increased access to temporary employment will give completely different results in Norway than it does in other countries. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining the existing Norwegian model of cooperation in the labour market. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progressive Party clearly want to abolish this model of cooperation by dramatically weakening the influence and positions of the trade union movement. We should be very happy that they didn't succeed, because it would have consequences for the country with which no one is served, not even they. One more thing, which has been mentioned in the debate: at least the Left and Christian People's Party is obviously very concerned about the state employees compared to other workers in the country. Within the framework of constitutional law, it is the State staff who represent the executive. This is precisely why officials and officials have been regulated in a different way from workers in the private and municipal sectors. They meet more stringent stability requirements, have special job protection rules, as has been said, and have completely different types of loyalty bands.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e814	Ensuring the rights of workers is and has always been one of the most important issues of the Workers' Party. Throughout history, the Workers' Party, together with the trade union movement, has worked to ensure that we have a safe and inclusive working life, where everyone should have the opportunity to be at work. What laws and regulations we have is crucial to the way in which working life looks, and to how the everyday life of each employee is. The Working Environment Act has been advocating thorough debate in recent years, and there are strong opinions on how to protect people's rights. The right-wing dominant Bondevik government considered that these rights are best safeguarded by increasing the use of temporary employment, a weakening of the protection against dismissal and the liberalisation of working time. Today's government and the majority of the Storting is of a different opinion. We believe that workers should have a stronger protection, not a weaker one. What kind of working life we through laws and regulations add up to is also about what kind of society we want to have. Do we want a society where people have good health and a safe life, a society that is diverse and equal? Or do we want a society that keeps out of work, a society with more stress, marked by uncertainty, and where is it difficult to combine work with family life? The minority wants to maintain the previous decision on working time, decisions involving longer working days and more use of overtime, which means that people should be able to have 13 hours of work without overtime and 78 hours of work week – which the Labour Inspectorate believes is too much and is also not health-friendly. Freedom and flexibility are words used by the minority in their justification for the liberalisation of working time. The majority believe that there is little freedom to impose even tougher standards of endurance when growing age becomes a problem, and people with child care will have difficulty satisfying the desire for longer working days. This will actually mean less freedom for a majority of the population. In today's modern society, there are tough demands in the labour market in terms of skills and the desire of employers to achieve good performance and efficiency. Overtime use is not uncommon in Norway. The majority are not against people working overtime either. But we believe we must have clear boundaries. That is why we want to get back the limits of overtime that were in force until 2003. We believe that and the other majority proposals do not prevent the flexibility the minority is talking about so much. People get a working day they can actually live with. That people should be able to enter into individual agreements on the use of overtime, we believe is wrong. It will weaken the ability of organisations to take care of the interests of their members, and it will also put a great deal of pressure on each employee. It is not easy to say no to an employer who wants and requires you to work more overtime. That's why we want to tighten up the rules. The labour movement has a proud history of caring for people in the workplace. With the new majority on the Biggest, this story is passed on. We don't want the rights that are fought and built up over a hundred years to be demolished. This is why today's majority is proud to present a position of strength, not weakening, workers' protection and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e838	The choice in the autumn was a choice of political direction. We see it in the choice between better schooling and care for the elderly or tax havens. We see it in the question of whether the state should engage to create jobs or leave development to the market. But perhaps we see it more clearly in the question of how the future working life should be. In many countries, there is a debate about how the labour market works. The right-hand side of Norway, represented by the Right and the Progressive Party, will mean that the labour market will function more like other markets, with the free purchase and sale of services, while the parties in the centre and on the left-hand side believe that authorities and trade unions must have instruments to safeguard the rights of workers. This effect can be illustrated by comparing the systems in Norway and the Nordic countries with those in the United States. In both Norway and the United States, low unemployment rates and large sections of the population are at work. Both countries have a high average wage level and a high average productivity. We find the difference behind the averages, in the distribution of the level of income between different groups. We react when the top managers of the largest companies in Norway make ten times as much as the average income. But the top executives of the largest corporations in the United States earn 200 times as much as the average income. The lowest wage in the United States, on the other hand, only earns about half of the level of the lowest wage in Norway with a statutory minimum wage, which corresponds to an annual salary of approximately DKK 90 000. The pay of the lowest wages in the United States is not big enough to prevent poverty. You can have a full job and still be poor. That's why the poverty problem is so much bigger in the United States. Poverty produces crime, so the crime problem is so much greater in the United States. Why am I pointing this out? Indeed, because the difference in employee rights is a crucial explanation of the differences in the two systems. Our protection against dismissal means that employees cannot be treated arbitrarily or unfairly by employers. Our overtime legislation has set limits to preventing unfair pressure from employers. But then the Progress Party and the Bondevik government have made it easier for employers to push employees to get them to work overtime. The overtime rules were amended. The party of progress and the Bondevik government weakened the protection against dismissal, weakening the possibility of permanent employment. It would have gradually led to an Americanization, a brutalization of Norwegian working life. In Norway, about 90 pst. by permanent staff. That doesn't mean you can't cancel. However, the employer must have a factual reason to resign. So what is the situation of a temporary employee? Yes, if you are afraid of not being able to extend your employment, you are, of course, weaker than the employer. It's easier to be exploited, you've got to put a cap in your hand. To a lesser extent, you will be offered training that is provided to regular employees, you will find it harder to earn a basis for sick pay, maternity leave and daily allowances, and you will, of course, have less financial security. You don't know what you're earning when your employment ends. Because you do not have a safe income, you do not get a loan – and then it is of course more difficult to buy a dwelling and establish yourself. I hear in this debate that the Right and Advance Party claim that this is actually done to get young people to work. It's deaf. There is no evidence of professional evidence to claim that the increase in the use of temporary employment will lead to more people coming to work. Here we find a lot of research, but there is no link between the use of temporary additions and increased employment. On the contrary, at times of unemployment, it will be easier to get rid of employees. Then I also hear that it is said that this is just a small decoration. It's also wrong. Increased use of temporary additions opens up a different working life in Norway. Opening up for increased use of temporary staff, businesses can reduce the number of permanent employees to a minimum and meet the need beyond temporary employment. It will still be more difficult to get fixed-term employment. The Labour Party will not have it in Norway, as the Stoltenberg government will not have it in Norway. That is why we say no to opening up temporary employment, and no to weakening the rights of workers by the Progress Party and the Right. The implementation of the Working Environment Act is one of the most important examples of the importance of having a new political majority in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e855	The president would point out to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen that characterizing other parties' policies as hesitation can be tempting for some, but you can't do it in this room. This is not a parliamentary expression. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e860	I will reflect on some temporary jobs that are not really jobs. Then I am not talking about women working in the public sector, but about women – mostly women – who work in the public sector. Only in the municipality of Kristiansand there are 1,187 employees in the municipality who work under 40 pst. position. What they do to be able to live and meet their obligations is to work extra guards. There is a large black hole in service production, both in the private and public sectors. What does that mean? Well, it leads to a major deterioration in quality. The whole debate we have had here today concerns only production and focus on the employer's ability to make money. It is not about the quality of production, either in the private or in the public sector. Follow-up, overview and control will be much more difficult to deal with when you have a large workforce that comes and goes. The individual's life situation is deteriorated in relation to the economy, health, social networks and other rights resulting from having permanent employment under the laws and regulations we have today. Quality reasons for this use of temporary staff are not taken into account, nor is it taken into account that a tour operator should be allowed to go up. No, there is a need for greater liberalisation both in the public and private sectors. It is in economic conditions it has been narrow and it is a one-sided focus on efficiency and economy. The government says redistribution, and we also say that in terms of employment for employees. The government's focus on this, I hope, will lead to changes in practice, so that the right to have a contract of employment that goes beyond the fixed rate of employment that employees have is also practised. It provides more predictability and provides higher quality both for recipients and for service providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e869	I fully agree with what the last speaker said, but I need to comment on something that has been said in the debate. It has been claimed that this majority and this government are not as concerned with the employment of disabled persons and their opportunities on the labour market as with the opposition. This shows that during the budget procedure in the autumn, measures have increased for the disabled more than the government has done. Yes, there is one reason why the opposition has had the opportunity, namely that it has been a government shift. They re-prioritized in such a way that there was some money left over for them too. They put their priorities that way, but they didn't do it in their own budget. I therefore think that there is some unreasonable argument being put forward. Then the representative Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party wants me to document claims in relation to temporary employment, and he refers to a Fafo report that shows that some temporary employees are getting a permanent position. Yes, they do. So it's under today's law and rules as they are today. Some do, but many of them become swinging door employees, go out and in from work, and they are the weakest. But most of those who get a job are those who have a high level of education, and who had a job anyway. The representative, Eriksson, then points to the wishful tour that is now, among other things. is used in the health sector, both in municipalities and in hospitals. Yes, that's right, many want it and have it. It is also fully possible within today's law, and it is today's law that we will continue. In today's legislation, temporary employment is possible and flexibility is possible, including wish tours. So it's a total misunderstanding when it sounds like the Progress Party thinks we're going to a different legal state than the one we have today. Finally, the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right say that we have to understand that employers are able to assess their own situation. Yeah, I'm sure they are. They are able to judge their interests and care for them. But from our point of view, we would say that, in fact, we believe that the organisations of disabled people are also able to assess their own situation and take care of it. In that conflict of interest, SV chooses to stand on the side of the disabled and the disabled and to ensure a working life that allows them to be inside as well, and not only get into a small turn of time and even into unemployment again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e882	The Bondevik II government has set historical record in Norwegian labour protection legislation. For the very first time, legislative changes have led to a weakening of employees' rights. Flexibility is the new word for increased working time and increased overtime. We also see it in the European Union. Flexification, as one calls it there, costs — several accidents and stress diseases. When the red-green majority puts our feet down, we are accused of walking backwards, being unsolidarized and turning the clock back. But listen to the following statement: Limitations in working time and overtime are «completely in conflict with the efforts of the Liberation of Personality [[...]] I'd like to comment on a couple of relationships. Firstly, to whom are the overtime provisions to apply? Man’s memory is short, but some may remember that Bondevik II in 2003, in the middle of the Labour Law Committee’s work, against the votes of the Labour Party, SVs and the Centre Party, changed overtime provisions negatively. It's now going to be reversed. In 2005, individuals in a particularly independent position were included in the rules, but no longer than they could be agreed upon by themselves. Media has claimed that the red-green majority will exempt up to one million workers from the overtime rules. That's not the case. «Specially independent position» has never been intended to be defined to the extent necessary. Is this practice, such as: The academics have taken up, there is a strong indication that the law is not being complied with. Nor is a statutory individual agreement enough. The majority therefore clarify that the definition of ‘specially independent position’ should be as strict as it has always been. But one question arises: if there are as many as one million employees, how many of them are actually in a position that does not meet the law’s requirements for ‘especially independent’? The Department is working on a survey. Next year, we will know more about what needs to be done – the amendment of the law or the tightening of practices, perhaps also a closer follow-up by the Labour Inspectorate. The majority will follow this matter carefully. Finally, a matter that has not been so much commented on. It does not concern many, but is all the more important for those concerned: the right to stand in the job during a dispute about termination. Under Bondevik II, the principles were reversed, from the demands of the employer and the burden of proof that the employee himself must ask the right to continue in the job until a dispute is settled. Such matters may take years. Without the right to work, a victory in court will be an empty victory. We're going to go back to what it should be. The voice of tradesmen was a significant contribution to the Red-Green Elections, because we had the best policy. With today's legislative act, important promises have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e899	I really should have asked for the floor for a manifest misunderstanding. It was the contribution of the representative, Karin Andersen, who made me take the floor. When she claims that the 1.2 billion used by the opposition in addition to its new budget presented in the Financial Committee are due to the change of government, this must be a misunderstanding. The 1.2 billion are the result of a reduction in sick leave, a reduction in unemployment and, consequently, new estimates of the expenditure of the population in these areas. It's not because of the government change! This is because the government that has left has pursued an economic policy that has again created progress and optimism in the country and thus a decline in unemployment, and it is because of the work done to reduce sick leave. Of that money, the previous government parties prioritised, among other things: measures for those who need additional assistance because they are out of the labour market. We prioritised more money for education, to give people the skills to get into the labour market. Today's government parties prioritised giving tax relief to those who are organized in, among other things. LO, to those who are in the labour market, who are basically the most privileged in this society. It is a political priority. That's what we see the difference between today's government and the government that's gone off.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e906	The debate today has been very much about temporary employment. That's good. It is an important topic in terms of changes to the Working Environment Act. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund used the term «full-time employees at Youngstorget». No, this is not about full-time employees at Youngstorget. I'm not worried about them at all. But it's about maids and cleaners in our hotels, it's about shopkeepers in our shopping malls, which, with today's legislation, are largely temporary employees. These are industries where today's legislation is a very tough job. At the same time, these are sectors which have the worst paid employees throughout our working life. And so those who lost the election want to release, with further opening for temporary employment and more use of overtime. No, if there was any way we were to go, it was to make sure that the groups I have now mentioned had better protection, not worse protection. I'm glad of the election results. I am pleased with the change in the regime we got, and I am not least happy with the changes we are making today in the Working Environment Act, and something later in the Civil Service Act. Workers shall have a safer working life and better protection, not more uncertainty and more uncertainty. The representative Robert Eriksson said that many employees want more flexibility. Yes, it is possible, in certain areas. But I still have the pleasure of meeting someone who is a permanent employee, who ties his fists and asks to be temporarily employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e917	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 121]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e933	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes, with up to 5 minutes allocated to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e942	This setting contains suggestions for several changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. The proposals were not consulted and the deadline for consultation was 1 April 2005. The case was not finalised in the previous flooding period and is therefore being treated here in Odelstinget today. The majority are in favour of having access to the authorities to refuse residence in cases where the applicant is likely to be subjected to abuse or other serious exploitation in the event of a family establishment. Minister of Justice Storberget has presented ten measures to prevent family violence. We are one way to follow up on this with today's suspension and decision. We see that privacy can be a challenge in such cases, but we believe that the choice is easy when it comes to protecting the weak groups here. In matters like this, they themselves have renounced privacy by being convicted of violence. Unfortunately, we see that some reference people abuse the power position they have in family start-ups. This is also happening in the context of visas. Therefore, it is timely to propose a clear basis for refusing a visit visa if there is a sufficient risk that the applicant or accompanying children will be subjected to abuse or abuse. At the same time, we must recognise that it is too difficult to carry out routine background checks. This is only done if there are particular reasons. Norway has ratified several conventions establishing the parties’ right to marry on its own initiative. At the same time, we have also committed ourselves to respecting privacy and family life. Here we have to find the right balance between these two principles. The Committee proposes a new mandatory system of interviews in the configuration. In short, it assumes that the person who married a resident in Norway will not be granted a residence permit, nor will he be allowed to enter Norway, until the spouse has returned to Norway and has been interviewed by the foreign authorities. The proposal has been assessed differently at the hearing bodies. Some people think the proposal does not go far enough, while others think it goes too far into the private sphere. However, the vast majority of the hearing bodies are satisfied with the proposal and want it to be tested. The first subparagraph of Section 2 of the Foreign Regulation lays down, as one of several basic conditions for a work permit for immigrants, that pay and working conditions must not be worse than under the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal to the place and profession in question. We support the proposal that non-compliance should lead to direct consequences for the employer’s ability to pick up new non-resident labour force. The issue is that employers should be able to refuse to pick up non-resident labour for a period of up to two years. We both hope and believe that this will help protect workers from employers who have committed serious or repeated violations of their obligations. At the same time, we regard this as one of several measures in the fight against social dumping. Chapter 7 contains proposals that respond to the criticism of ESA in relation to the existing legal provisions on the expulsion and expulsion of non-residents covered by the EEA Agreement or the EFTA Convention. The changes are assumed, according to the Department, to have little or no actual significance. Therefore, it is proposed that the changes be implemented already in the current law. This is acceptable. With this, I recommend that Odelstinget give its connection to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e963	The Progress Party mainly supports the amendment of the law. However, when we come to the part that goes on countering coercion, it is reasonably obvious that the majority is not willing to go far enough in combating something that is a major problem. Forced marriage is a completely unacceptable act – totally incompatible with our values, our outlook on life, and the fundamental rights that we believe and work for. But I think there's some unbalanced conceptual confusion here in relation to how you choose to divide this into: coercion, voluntary marriage, arranged marriage, etc. The essential thing here – and it is important – is that we distinguish between voluntary and involuntary marriages. Let me take some statistics from the Embassy in Pakistan, where we see that 57 pst. of all immigrants who come through marriage are related. A significant proportion of them are siblings. 68 pst. marriages are said to be something behind their parents. Only poor 3 pst. is love. This is something that has been stated by people who are marrying. Unfortunately, actual statistics show that practice is also continued in the second generation. This is a major challenge, and here, in fact, tools must be put in place to combat what is totally undesirable, totally unacceptable, in Norwegian society. This is a lot about integration – how we get into integration policy, and how we can avoid segregation. How we apply the measures today will be absolutely crucial. I regret that the other parties in the committee have not been willing to look at the proposals that the Progress Party has made. This applies to the 24-year-old age limit for spouses, which will significantly ensure that those entering marriages are mature enough to do so, are able to make their own choices independently of the pressures of their parents – a fundamental step if we are to be able to stop forced marriage – with respect to dependants, housing, language skills, etc., which are closely related to integration, and where there is not so much driven by unwanted cultural traditions from the country of origin. It is about connecting requirements, and there is also much about integration. But in the case of a case that we will come back to in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals, which will be dealt with here, we want to have a general ban on sibling childhood. Very many of the involuntary marriages are just part of this group. There will be an effective way to stop forced marriage. It actually also has a health side, of which we should not underestimate the importance of. There is a significant increased risk of malformations in children whose parents are siblings. I record and think it is a pity to see that the other parties are not at all willing to use an instrument that is absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary, if we are to be able to put an end to forced marriage. This is absolutely necessary grip, and I think it's a pity that the other parties are not willing to go into it. I bring up the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e982	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e985	I am pleased that all the proposals in the motion for a resolution have been approved by the Committee. The proposal for a new provision to protect against violent reference persons in Norway does not imply that the authorities should take a role as guardians of the establishment of life. However, a difficult moral situation arises when it appears likely that the applicant or his special coal child will be subjected to an abuse by a reference person in Norway who exploits the power position he has. The proposed provision will be an appropriate instrument for meeting this particular challenge. In order for the new provision to be effective, it is necessary that there be a provision for background checks, as proposed in the proposal, to which the Committee has joined. The Progress Party has proposed routine background checks for applicants from countries where forced marriage is widespread. I think this is unnecessary. Firstly, the risk of encountering a violent and exploitative spouse in Norway is not particularly related to the issue of forced marriage. In forced marriage situations, it is usually other than the parties themselves who practice coercion, and often the party who lives in Norway is even a victim in these situations. The need to protect against violent and cynical reference persons has been at least as focused on situations where ethnic Norwegian men pick up spouses from abroad with whom they have had little or no contact in advance. Secondly, it is not appropriate to lay down rules on background checks based on the nationality background of the reference person. This will reflect the discriminatory and stigmatizing view that, based on a person’s nationality background, it is more or less likely that he has committed a previous offence. The Party also considers that all information on the reference person should be communicated to the applicant, irrespective of whether they provide a basis for believing that the reference person may pose a threat to the applicant or his child. I have a hard time understanding this point of view. The authorities may not determine how much of their personal past the parties should reveal to each other, as long as this is not relevant in terms of protecting against abuse. Therefore, the authorities should not provide person-sensitive information that is not relevant to the case. The Committee has joined in the measures proposed against compulsory marriage. In this context, it is important that a clear basis be included in the Foreign Affairs Act to refuse a residence permit when someone has been pressured into marriage against his will. This gives both an important signal and a good legal basis for dealing with marriage press issues. Similarly, I hope that the proposed system of interviews will be effective. I would like to point out that the Government will continue to focus on the issue of coerciveness – even after the Odelstinge adopts the measures that are now under assessment. The government is currently working on a proposal for a new foreign law. The possibilities of finding other appropriate measures against forced marriage will be assessed in the context of legal work, e.g.: the previous speech was about the question of developing age limits. I intend to submit a proposal for a new foreign law in the autumn 2006 session. It will provide a good basis for considering more measures to combat, not least, coerciveness. I register that the Progress Party in the vote proposes that the Government should come back with a separate case of forced marriage in the autumn of 2006. This will happen in practice by, as I said, aiming to present a proposal for a new foreign law in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1016	It is interesting to record the care of the Council of State for the use of personal data of the reference person, if any. not used. I think it is more important to focus on what really is at the heart of the matter, namely how to combat forced marriage. I think to the extent that the Council of State is giving interesting signals here. I hope that those signals are real, and that in the assessments you make, you are also willing to look at measures that you have not been willing to look at in the past. I have a question for the Council of State in this context: Would it be possible to consider applying the type of restrictions, such as the 24-year age limit for spouses, the prohibition of siblings' child-bearing, access requirements, dependance, etc., in order to put an effective stop to forced marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1021	No, it is simply not a matter of concern that is out there and is proportionate to the assessment of disclosure of personal data, it is simply a principle that the information that is relevant should be disclosed. In other words, if the legal system is linked to combating violence if people come to Norway linked to a possible family establishment, they should be made aware of if such information is available. The aim of the law is not to provide the most general information possible to a spouse, but to prevent violence. To the other question is the answer: Of course, work on a new law on foreigners will consider issues related to age limits, access requirements and the type of topic that has been discussed and will be discussed in the context of a comprehensive review of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1028	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 124]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1046	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then we go to case No. 4 – we'll see what kind of surprises it brings. [[Food, see page 125]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1072	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1081	The party of progress has signaled that we are against this amendment of the law. This is because we believe that, in relation to integrating into Norwegian society, each immigrant has a fundamental duty to adapt to the Norwegian society both in terms of language – learning the Norwegian language – and in terms of knowledge, taking in knowledge of the society in which they will live, learning to relate to Norwegian society. We also have demands and leads that we want in relation to the fact that the person who picks up the people who come through family reunification has a basis in terms of housing and income and is able to care for it in a good way. What the Government is now proposing is, in reality, nothing more than a further transfer of responsibility from the individual, from the individual person, the individual immigrant, to the state. The state is the one who clearly has to take all responsibility for integration policy. It is condemned to fail. It is condemned not to work, because it is precisely the type of action that has been carried out over decades in this country, where integration policy has proved to be a failure. In fact, we need to focus more on the duty of individual immigrants to adapt to Norwegian society. Then it must also be said that the state is not necessarily the one to take this responsibility. Experience from abroad where integration policy has worked shows that. For example: The United States, where the special arrangements, the special rights, are a minimum. There we see that integration actually works. In countries where special arrangements exist, special rights, it is much longer to go before people who arrive in the country are able to adapt and become well integrated into society. So this again shows that the Government is liberalizing immigration and integration policy, that the Government has not taken the lesson that some of the parties had for a while been doing in relation to the fact that what has been led by integration policies in this country has not worked. So you're going to continue with the same recipe. And I'm sorry to say that, but I don't think it will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1088	This case is a legal follow-up to decisions taken during the budgetary procedure. S. No 5, where it was granted 100 million. kr for the reintroduction of the reunited introduction programme to persons who have been granted humanitarian residence. The majority of the Committee agrees that successful integration depends on people moving to a place of residence, getting work and having the opportunity to participate in society as soon as possible. In the majority’s view, the recommendation for a decision will motivate several municipalities to settle more lonely people who may be entitled to family reunification, and likely to lead to a faster settlement and, consequently, less expenditure on reception. This seems to most people to agree, except the Advance Party. We believe that this proposal is a step towards giving these people rights that apply to all citizens. And this is where the Progress Party bombs. Normal rights, as stated in the comments from the Progress Party in the setting, which apply to all residents, are, for example: 10-year primary and 3-year secondary education and the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme are therefore only the beginning of a process towards full integration into society. It is almost incredible that the Progress Party, which supposedly wants better integration, believes that this should only be a personal responsibility. It's not particularly gender friendly either, when we know that most people who come to family reunion because they're spouses or cohabitants of the main person are women with small children. Instead of taking responsibility for all the Nordics, you are pushing ahead with the fact that with their policies there will be fewer who will be reunited. But then I think you actually have to deal with the world the way it is. Today, family reunification is possible under certain conditions. That matter has been lost by the Progress Party, and would it not be possible if these too were offered?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1101	I just needed to comment a little bit on the post of the representative of the Progress Party here, and also in that context attach some good words to the previous government. That's not what we do most of the time, so it can be good to do it when there's a basis for it. What I think was one of the really important things that the Council of State Erna Solberg and the previous government suggested, and was adopted in the previous magnification period, were the introduction programs and the law related to the introduction programs. It's now gradually started. Demands are made — you have an obligation to participate and a right to participate — and you are now really putting into system Norwegian education and dissemination of knowledge about Norwegian society. That's why it becomes very strange when the Progress Party claims that this is an integration policy that we've been trying for a long, long time, and that we know is a failure. No, this is not an integration policy that we have been pursuing for a long, long time. This is an integration policy that has recently been adopted and implemented, i.e. in the previous enlargement period, where we are introducing a whole new system in relation to how people are welcomed in Norway. If we are prepared to accept people at all – we can discuss whether it is right or wrong, at least I am in favour of a policy that says that people who really need protection should be protected in Norway – I believe that in order to succeed in integration, it is essential that we provide language training. I think that's very well organized through the introduction program. Then we're going to evaluate it, adjust it, etc., but so far there's a lot of research that shows that there's pretty good results related to the introduction program. This is not a policy that has been tried for a long, long time; it is a policy that was established — adopted and implemented — during the previous enlargement period. We are now building on it, because one of the mistakes the previous government made was that it removed the scheme in practice for those who were family reunited with people who had lived on a humanitarian basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1110	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1113	I think the Council of State misunderstands something I'm saying about today's integration policy being flawed, and that this is much more of the same old. Because what we're talking about is what you've been doing all along: depreciating individual immigrants' responsibility to adapt to Norwegian society – you're doing it to a state task, where the state is the only one to guarantee this, and where there's too little emphasis on what individuals are doing. When we look at the different immigrant groups, we see that this is essentially about cultural barriers. To a large extent, there is a willingness to do something for yourself in order to be integrated into the Norwegian community. And then it's about making demands. My question to the Council of State thus becomes: Does the Council not see that special arrangements, preferably economic specialities, etc., can be a resting place for some immigrants and hinder rapid integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1120	Odelstingen now has a case for changes in the personality of the introduction programme. In this context, the representative of the Progress Party makes a statement saying that this type of integration policy has been tried for a long, long time and that it has failed. It's actually wrong. This type of integration policy has not been tried for a long, long time, and very much indicates that this type of integration policy may seem to produce very good results. I think it is important to stress that the introduction programme implies a right and a duty. You have obligations to participate, but it also gives you rights. If you jump off, you lose your rights. In that case, no specific financial arrangements will be available. If you participate, you get rights, but that's because of duties. It is a good policy, which this Council of States is going to come back to in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1129	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1134	I don't think it's necessary to spend as much as 3 minutes, because I haven't prepared any post. But I now notice that I am unable to sit quietly and listen to some statements made from this pulpit. I wonder what kind of picture the Progress Party has of the immigrant population in Norway. Does the Progress Party have a picture of the immigrants as a group that is more or less impotent, who do not want, who do not? For here again there are some concepts: the obligation to integrate, learn languages, adapt to Norwegian society. I was the former rapporteur in the municipality of Drammen, which is an immigrant town no. 2 in Norway, after Oslo, and we were among others. the model of the introduction system currently in place. When we started with it in the Drama, there were just so many barriers in Norwegian society to the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society. I can give a little example in the end, because when the Progress Party is talking about cultural barriers, maybe not the biggest barriers in the immigrant population itself, but in the Norwegian community. In the election campaign, I met many representatives of different nationalities and immigrant organisations. In the Sikh Temple in Lier, I met a trained building engineer, a professional group that Norway is screaming for. We have a lack of them, we're training too few, it's too few out in the market that the Progress Party is otherwise very concerned about, where the demand for engineers is great. What he told me was that he didn't get a job. His conclusion on the situation that he stagnated and stagnated in the Norwegian labour market, and stagnated in prejudices – for a building engineer from India is no worse engineer than an engineer from Norway – was: I suppose I have to set up my own business in order to be employed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1157	It's interesting to record that the Workers' Party is going in the same trap over and over again, when they're on every occasion busy talking about the group, busy talking about larger numbers of people instead of looking at the individual, instead of looking at the individual. Because that's exactly what's the point here. I haven't said anything in any way, as it's being said or suggested, that the group of immigrants is lazy or is like this or that. This is absolutely fundamental for immigrants, as it is for all other people: people are different! Some have a desire for action, others do not. Some people are on the verge of adapting to Norwegian society, others are not. When we study the statistics, we see that there is also a connection with what culture the person comes from, the country of origin, because there are great cultural differences initially, to varying degrees, depending on the background of the immigrant. It's not about talking about people as a group, it's about talking about individuals. And that's how we have to put up with the Norwegian integration policy as well. We have to make demands. It is only through the requirements that we can achieve successful integration into this country! It's not like the state councils here are trying to produce it, that the introduction system automatically produces results, even if you spend money on it. For once again, you are not willing to set the requirements that are necessary in relation to how good you actually are in Norwegian, and how capable you are to understand and understand how Norwegian society works. It's where this fails, and that's where you have to start taking some action, make demands for the individual immigrant – as an individual, as an individual. Unlike the Workers' Party, we do not see immigrants as a simple and transparent group. It's a very complex amount with individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 126]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1187	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes, divided by up to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1196	I will be presented with the majority position in the case of the Law of 17 June 2005 No. 103 on government officials and officials, etc. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party have always been aware that we want to reverse the changes in the Civil Service Act adopted by the Bondevik Government and the Progress Party in spring 2005. This case has been discussed in depth in the past, and the arguments are the same – and the fronts are the same. We record that the opposition is not very busy with employees' rights. The liberalisation of the labour environment law, the cut in unemployment benefits and previous attempts to weaken the sick pay system are some examples. This shows a political and ideological pattern that also prevails in the discussion of the new law on civil servants and officials. But luckily, the autumn elections showed us that the voters are concerned with job security and good working conditions for the workers. The current government parties will repeat the criticism that emerged the previous time the matter was being dealt with. We believe that there should have been a more comprehensive process than the government set up at that time. In our view, the lack of dialogue with employees' organisations was critical. The process of drafting a new law meant urgent work without a thorough investigation. The Bondevik government gave few arguments as to why such extensive changes were necessary, yes, there was at all a lack of decision-making basis. If we move on to the very content of the changes, we believe that the Bondevik Government's proposal for new civil servants' and civil servants' law has removed key elements of the administrative and civil servants' right. Fundamental rights and provisions were impaired. We are also still wondering about the allegations that the difference between the Labour Environment Act and the Civil Service Act led to little mobility between the public and private sectors and whether this is a problem. The need, competence and pay and employment conditions initially govern this. We fear, on the other hand, that a deterioration in the rights of employees can help to make it more difficult to recruit and retain good workers. Furthermore, we believe that the employment system at that time worked well. In the case of the recruitment of officials, an appointment should always have been made by a body in which the employees were represented. The changes adopted by the majority of the Grand Duchy in the previous period will greatly weaken the influence of employees. This makes the greatest difference in the design of the employer policy between the outgoing Bondevik government and the current Stoltenberg government. We want to protect workers' rights, not build them down. The right to a waiting wage was not unconditional in the old law, and we agree with the opposition that the waiting wage system should not be used to push people out of work. But we have many examples of that in the transformations and reorganizations of businesses, such as in Telenor, Posten and NSB, it has been important to have a waiting wage system and that this has actually brought workers back to work. The government's employer policy must be predictable and vigilant and an example of follow-up for other employers. In this context, there must be an objective of protecting the acquired rights and not weakening them, as the former government parties and the Progress Party agreed. Therefore, on the basis of this argument, we recommend that the setting be accepted as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1222	In the negotiated document between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV at Soria Moria, a red thread goes through the entire document: a new course is to be worked out. The new course we can see more places, and we in the Progress Party must admit that we are very concerned about the consequences of the new course, not least for business, with the following risks for jobs. We hear from the new government that they want to improve the framework for Norwegian business. On the other hand, the party of progress is afraid that several of the current performances will have a negative impact on business. The party of progress is deeply concerned when the new government is now making suggestions to repeal and reverse the employment and service laws. We are afraid that this will create difficulties for the state's ability to convert. The party of progress will claim that this will lead to an additional obstacle to the warning of transferring government tasks to the municipal level. It would also point out that the introduction of a separate system of protection for the state would, in our view, be an obstacle to the mobility of labour between state and private activities. After the Progress Party’s view, both the State and the private sector will lose out on this. The state loses as an employer, and the private business loses in such a way that they have difficulty recruiting skilled labour. The party of progress will also claim that the waiting pay system for state employees has contributed to the fact that older workers too often have had to give up the place of conversion and de-employment. It's a fact that the entire 90 pst. the waiting wage earners are over 50 years of age. The party of progress would suggest that in a situation where gradually more labour is needed, and where agreement on inclusive working life is to ensure that older workers can stand longer in work, the waiting pay system after the Progress Party's view is wrong medicine. The Progress Party therefore believes that the new government's proposal to repeal the Civil Service and Civil Service Act is a change of course in the wrong direction, as this would be an important contribution to the process of harmonising the working conditions for adding to private and public activities. The batch of progress is therefore due to be voiced against the submitted batch.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1235	The red lamp shines both over and over, but the president fits the speaking time so that everyone will have the speaking time they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1238	The red lamp shines with good reason in this case because this is a serious matter compared to the fact that one does something as alarming as proposing to continue a special job for employees in state enterprises at the expense of employees in municipal and private businesses. Therefore, there is reason to ask why a chooser does this. One has a contract work between the social partners. One has not least a law, among other things. through the Working Environment Act to ensure the rights of all workers. One has tools through the Aetat, and one has tools through the population's privacy, which all contribute to providing a basis and a basis for all workers in this country to feel secure if their jobs are exposed. What, then, is the government's view that those employed in the state should have a stronger protection than those employed in the community? What makes the Council of State think that a store clerk at Rema 1000 or, in order to take something even more nearby, a kindergarten employee in Florø does not need the same protection as an employee in her own department in Oslo? It is very difficult to see that there is any reason other than that the current government believes that the universal and general provisions on protection of workers in the municipal and private sectors of this country are too poor. If they're not good enough, one can argue that one should gradually improve these, and that one wants to start with the state staff, which was the basis when this law was passed, but it's after all a few generations ago. There are two schemes that are quite essential as one goes on here and that will be a significant problem. It is the waiting wage system, and there are recruitment procedures. If you look at the waiting wage system and its use in the last ten years, you will see that the number of waiting wage earners has increased from 300 to 3,400 in the period. 90 pst. of those who receive a waiting wage today are over 50 years of age. 73 pst. of those who have started on waiting pay in the last ten years have continued to have a waiting wage. 20 pst. have lost the right because they have become old-age pensioners or disability pensioners, and 12 pst. of those who have been paid waiting, have come to work. What does this tell us? Well, it clearly tells us the same thing that Aetat wrote to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in connection with the fact that the Bill of the Bondevik II Government was being consulted. They wrote in the hearing opinion: ‘We see an increase in the number of users, long periods of benefit, low transition to work, a high proportion of seniors, etc. This contrasts with the labour market policy objectives of maximising work.’ It is clear from the waiting pay system that if one is more than 50 years old, it is easier to push out in connection with conversion processes in state activities. This means that one who is over 50 years old is initially out of the labour market and then has the choice of having 66 pst. pay with the waiting pay scheme or change to a new job that you will experience as more uncertain. 73 pst. chooses to wait until they leave the disability or old age pension. This is discriminatory in relation to seniors in the workplace. The continuation of the waiting wage system is contrary to the objective of labour market policy, which is broadly anchored in Stortinget. This is contrary to the objective of the IA Agreement, which has a strong anchor in the Stortinget. This is contrary to the objectives expressed by a majority in the United Kingdom when one has asked the Government to promote its own report on senior policy in the labour market, precisely in order to increase the number of seniors to remain in the labour market. As far as recruitment procedures are concerned, one of these proposals is to weaken the ability of the state to employ the best people in its business. This means that the state, which initially has a challenge to meet the best employees, is once again lagging behind in relation to private activities. For a State Council with total responsibility for the state's human resources policy, it must be a paradox to accept such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1265	The harvest's election results allowed for a change in working environment law and civil servants' law. The Act on State officials and officials adopted in Odelstinget on 9 June of this year is now repealed. The old official law is raised from the dead by the help of the red and the power of the Youngstorget. We in the Christian People's Party regret this. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure good legal protection for employees both in the private and public sectors. There is no doubt that there is still a need for occupational health and safety legislation such as: ensures a physical and mental working environment and protects employees from incalculable dismissals. We believe that employees in the private and public sectors should have harmonised and equivalent working conditions. For us, it is an objective that there should be common rules for most job categories and that the Labour Environment Act should cover the maximum possible employment. However, this is not the result of the decision of the majority of the population to repeal the law on government officials and officials. It is important for me to point out that the law on government officials and officials was largely adopted as a result of the recommendations of the Labour Law Committee. When the law is repealed, there is cause for concern – for several reasons. We know that the rules of the Civil Service Act on waiting pay have to a significant extent been misused to expel older workers from the labour market. That this issue is not even mentioned in the proposition is alarming. In particular, it is alarming that this happens when one of the Councils has taken the aim of being a Minister of Inclusion and not an Foreign Minister. It is also not a good thing for a minister of renewal. There is every reason to ask what action will be taken by the Council of State to prevent the abuse of the waiting pay system in order to get rid of older workers in the future. Another issue of concern is that the Civil Service Act prevents the conversion of the public sector. In the years ahead, there will be a need for modernisation and efficiency improvements also in state-owned enterprises. Of course, in such processes attention should be given to employees, but the starting point for such processes must be what serves the people, not what is, in isolation, the most appropriate for government employees. In this regard, I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the role and impact of the Civil Service Act in order to reach the Government's desire to establish more state jobs outside Oslo. I would also like to point out that the Civil Service Act is an obstacle to the flow of competences between the public and private sectors. I think society as a whole is served by a larger circulation of employees across the sectors. As indicated in the vote, the Christian People's Party will vote against the Ot.prp proposal. No 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1286	The Soria Moria Declaration made it clear that the Government would reverse the changes in the service laws adopted in spring 2005. The extensive changes in the laws adopted by the previous enlargement were not sufficiently assessed or discussed in advance. I also want to refer to Innst. O. No 102 for 2004-2005, where the Committee's members from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party considered that the proposed new law on civil servants and civil servants was such that it should have been provided by an independent legislative selection, one of which could have looked at the different consequences. The Bondevik administration removed central parts of the administrative and civil servants' right without the necessary cooperation with the members of its organisations. This government will stress that good change processes in the state depend on good cooperation between all parties on both sides of the table. Major changes in laws and regulations must be thoroughly implemented, and of course they must be included in the work. I do not disagree that the current service staff law should be assessed for renewal. But we believe that it is a clear commitment that the work is done in cooperation with the employees' parties. This work is so important that it is important to have a thorough evaluation process, where specific impact assessments are given a central place. So I've mentioned to the main associations the idea of putting down a selection to look at the laws. I have received positive feedback on that. One reason we need to take a closer look at the laws is the procedures for adding them. Many operations are losing highly skilled searchers because the process is taking too much time today. We should do something about this, but not by adding to their right to co-determination. It's not that much time. Democracy should take time if it needs to, but there are other things with the additions that we have to go in and look at, rather than taking away the added dishes. In addition, we also need in the long term a thorough review of the official scheme. This case is outside the Labour Law Committee’s mandate. So the point is that we're going to do it in cooperation with the organizations. It has also been signaled that there may be reason to look at the waiting pay scheme again. This has been said both by this Council of State and by the Prime Minister. So the allowance should not be an early retirement. Ventilation is also not given without conditions, but as a right which is given to a provider who is given notice, e.g. because of conversion. The allowance is meant to be a salary that one gets while one waits for a new job. A waiter is required to sign up for Aetat as a real job seeker, and Aetat is responsible for following up on the job. When it comes to harmonising the law in the State and private sectors, such a decision must just be made in a holistic way by assessing the whole of the Staff Act in a context and not fragmented way, as was the case when the Labour Law Committee was given its mandate to include the rules of employment in the State. The Committee's members from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the Government will make it difficult for the government to convert by not letting the new Service Law apply from the New Year. A claim that retaining the current employment and service law will make the task of transferring government tasks to the municipal level difficult. I don't agree with that. Of course, we need good conversion processes in the state. In yesterday's debate on the municipal committee's management budget, we were in the administration reform that this government is going to be working on these four years. We're going to do that job. This law does not prevent us from getting it. Nor can I see that the previous government should have disagreed with what we are doing now, simply to sit down with the organizations and find out how to start work on going through the law that is leading. That was precisely why the parties withdrew from that work, because one carried it out about overnight without having to include the organisations. So those who wear their shoes, those who have to do a conversion out there, should not have anything to say about conversion processes. In this way, this government does not believe that we will get good conversion processes either in the state or in the municipality, or for that part of private enterprise. To the right of their addition that's in the middle of this everyday life, the best starting point is to get to things we want. I'm going to gather the parties over Christmas. We're going to sit down and figure out if we're going to put down a law selection, or if we're going to put down a selection composed of the parties, and then we're going to take the path from there in relation to the points I've just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1312	I heard what the council said about waiting pay. However, I keep track that it is the elderly who have to give up their room for conversion and depopulation. When we also register to complete 90 pst. This is worrying, for example, among those aged over 50 years of age who are waiting for a job. Our claim is that special protection schemes for government employees also constitute an obstacle to the mobility of labour between state and private activities. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to prevent the elderly from remaining in this situation as losers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1320	So I'm not saying that it's the waiting pay institute itself that makes it the older ones that have to go when it's downstaffing and conversion. It also happens in all other places where one has downgrading and conversion. It is not only in the state sector. One can only look around the Norwegian labour market! Where are the employers who are ready with open arms, saying, "Come here, you who are 58 years old, you who are 60 years old, who have been unemployed!" Here you will get work with me! It is a general problem in Norwegian employment that employers do not focus on seniors. It'll be e.g. not done well enough in the state sector. I have started to look at this as the main manager of government employers' policies. But it's never done well enough in the municipal or private sector either. To give older workers a real opportunity to stand in the workplace is about, point 1, to facilitate a working life so that people are able to endure, and point 2, that one in the process of redundancy and conversion looks at the unique skills and experience of older workers, and see if this is not exactly what is needed in the company's transition process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1325	I understand that the Council of State attaches great importance to the fact that the process in relation to the previous change was not in accordance with what she wanted. Of course, it's possible to discuss it. However, the challenge in the position and in the argument in this case is that the only argument that is put forward for amending the law is that the Soria Moria declaration that you have to change the law has been agreed on. We can discuss the process, but with regard to the principles of the matter, the question is: What does the Council of State think about the work to be done further? Is it the case that she supports a principle that requires municipal employees to have a lower level of protection than those employed in State activities? Is it the case that the challenges of conversion are less for a government employee than for a nursery worker in Florø, or is further work to be based on having a similar law for the municipality and the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1332	I have a very good sense for the Right that things are going to be the same here in the world. The problem with the Right is just the way they've done it. They've managed to cut for those who have better arrangements than others. In the previous period, they are cut in permitting legislation, in day-to-day arrangements, in re-routing arrangements, in rehabilitation schemes and in job protection, in waiting wages and in co-decision. It's the medicine of the Right instead of turning it to the opposite: maybe someone has good arrangements because they eat it. Those with less good arrangements should perhaps have the opportunity to negotiate upwards, not reduce downwards. When we start the process of employee organisations, the Council of State cannot pre-determine how it should be. Then there's no process. That would have been about the same mess that the Bondevik government was doing. They had decided in advance, and then they just did it this way. If you want a dialogue with your employees' organisations, you have a dialog. This means that one has not decided in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1341	It's quite surprising when one in his main post just brings forward the challenges that we also see, in both the waiting pay system and the recruitment procedures, and in a way admits that it's difficult, and so the answer is that one should go into a process where one should look at whether these schemes should cover everyone in the labour market. We're going to have to leave that for now. The Council of State also stated in its main statement that she felt that this would not lead to problems in terms of public conversion and pointed to the announced regional reform. Is it the case that the Council of State really believes that when a proposal to transfer employees in state activities to municipal activities, they will accept the transfer to a completely different law and to a completely different protection from that of today's civil servants? Does she not see that the amendment of the law you are making today will precisely mean that the resistance of trade unions to the announced reform will be significantly greater than necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1353	No, I don't. So I don't share the right belief that whip is the only possible thing. I believe that if people who are in the middle of a process of conversion are included and told what they think, they will respect much more that the process of conversion still has to go on because the government or government has taken a different decision and has not been able to fully meet the requirements for everyone added. But dialogue is important. It's important to use the time. That's what we're going to do. We're going to spend four years discussing a management reform. This means that if there are changes such that a state-owned entity is added to the municipality, as the representative Höie uses as an example, there has been a long process, and they have of course been involved in that process. It's well known. The addition is signed by saying what he thinks, and the organizations have been involved in the work all the way. It's a completely different way of thinking about conversion. I'm completely overconfident that if they add and their organisations are involved in the conversion process, the conversion process is much easier than using whips.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1360	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1365	There is a lot to say about the Bondevik administration's handling of this case, about the processing, where there was a lack of impact assessments, and about the requirement for a law committee that was rejected, which I believe made the Storting a poor decision-making base when it took its law decision. I'm just going to give an example of why a reversal of the law is important, and it's exactly in relation to co-determination by additions. The Bondevik II Government and the Progress Party have removed the college add-on body which ensures that addition cases in the State are well prepared. The interaction with employee representatives in the recruitment and assignment councils disappeared. Then one might ask why this add-on scheme is so important. And now I hope that the representative Bent Höie from the Right will come along. The fact that employees are represented in the add-on bodies is a certainty that additions in the state are not based on coincidences, friendships, knowledge and camaraderie. The Bondevik government also opened up the possibility for individuals to be empowered to employ workers in government positions. At the same time, they opened up an extension of the scheme not to publish vacancies. This would mean that the guarantee against politicised additions and corruption was no longer in the addition process, but would depend on the moral and integrity of the individual leader. It is important that state employees are objective and neutral, and that they are at all times the best qualified to be employed. In recent times, we've seen examples of individuals doing some jobs, and it's probably not as lucky, to say it that way. It is good that the collegiate add-on body in the state is now reintroduced. It should be very much appreciated by everyone in this room because many of the state employees are just the tools of the Storting and the Government, and it is important that their performance is subject to strict substantive requirements, objectivity requirements, qualification requirements and control. It is alarming that the Right compares shop clerks with state employees. Within the framework of constitutional law, it is the State staff who represent the executive. This is precisely why officials and officials have been regulated in a different way from workers in the private and municipal sectors. They are also subject to strict stability requirements, have special job protection rules, loyalty bands, etc. The specific requirements for the performance of the duties and the role of officials and officials include: provided to ensure independence, so that management appears predictable, stable and independent of government change – to the benefit of the population and elected bodies. The Stoltenberg government is doing the only right thing in this case: reverses the whole law in order at a later stage to take a holistic approach and follow the procedures that include. are included in the investigation manual.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1386	The installation of the last speaker meant that I need to ask that it be clarified what is the objective of the work the Council of State has announced that she will start. We have been reminded that the Prime Minister has said that there is reason to look at the waiting pay system. We've had a government council that has argued in a previous post that there are things about the recruitment procedure that there's reason to look at, to get it more similar to what's elsewhere. A State Council in an earlier case today, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said in his reply to the representative Woie Duesund that the Government would assess the waiting pay scheme. However, there must well be a basis for an answer to whether the objective of that assessment should be – as the rapporteur said today, as the last speaker today, on which the Council of State was involved in the change of line – a strong argument for today's arrangements, and not least a argument that this should perhaps be extended to others. Or if the objective of the procedure you are going to initiate is to have a system that changes the negative consequences that must be evident both in relation to the recruitment procedure and in relation to the waiting wage system and the experience you have had with them in recent years. Is the objective of the process of complete protection and expansion, or change and adaptation to the legislation of other workers in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1391	As I was in my post, I do not start negotiations with the main associations in the state at the Stortinget’s pulpit. I have invited the main associations to participate in a work where we look at the employment and service law. What to get out of it has not been determined by the State Council or the Government in advance. It's just work either in a law selection or in a party-set selection that has to tell. What the government is going to have as its starting point, of course, I'm not going to present here from the Great Britain's pulpit either. There would be a complete error in relation to such work when I have invited the parties to it. We have to keep quiet with an open mind. We need to review it, look at the different elements of it. We've taken the waiting pay scheme, we've taken the entry fees – to name two. It is clear that when we look at the official and service laws, we will look at all the elements in her. But we haven't decided in advance, as the Bondevik government had: what would come out at the other end, simply one-sided cuts in processed dishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1396	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 126]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1404	Then Odelstinget will vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1411	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1424	The President will begin by including proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 17 June 2005 No 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] the following shall be amended: the second paragraph of Section 2-2 shall be deleted.The present third paragraph shall become the second paragraph.Sections 14-16 to 14-20 shall be deleted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1573	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1595	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it. The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote in favour. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1621	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1743	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1809	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1819	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1826	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow closely the developments in the issue of coercion and to return to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2006 on a case-by-case basis.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1960	The President will draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1970	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e1980	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2055	Here too, the Progress Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2065	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2075	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2123	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2135	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2145	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2211	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2223	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the same parties who voted against the vote will also vote against the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2235	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16-lower.ana.ud1396e2246	There is no record.
