ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e48	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e69	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Advance Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e78	In view of the ever-increasing — and new — use of development agreements, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of Ot.prp proposes. No 22 for 2004-2005 to regulate the use of such agreements in the Planning and Building Act. Today, development agreements are not directly regulated by law. The most serious arguments for such regulation are the desire to prevent major cost reviews on the purchaser of housing and to ensure a necessary level of predictability for the builders and municipalities. All the parties to the Committee agree that there is a need to substantially tighten up the use of development agreements by local authorities, since it is mainly limited to measures under the designation of social infrastructure. Development agreements have been in use for many years, and are most relevant in large-scale relocating press areas with high land and housing prices. An extension contract usually means a contract concluded between a municipality and the landowner or builder, relating to the conditions and conditions relating to the development of a residential plot, and what the builder must undertake to do in connection with the permit for expansion. The most common content of a development agreement has so far been that the builder or landowner undertakes to renovate and/or finance the necessary technical infrastructure such as road, water and sewerage. The traditional use of development agreements, which have thus often been the result of the need for construction or landowners to provide roads, water and sewerage, bicycle and pedestrian paths, etc. , have been accepted and not disputed, and such agreements have been used for more than 30 years in some municipalities already. However, in recent years, the use of development agreements has taken a new direction, by increasing the number of people who have also had to undertake to provide or co-finance so-called social infrastructure such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals in some municipalities. It is therefore this new direction that the use of development agreements has taken in relation to the requirement that builders also provide social infrastructure, which has been directly involved in increased debate and which has pushed forward a need to assess the legal regulation of development agreements. The Committee points out that, in particular, press communities, with large movements and rapid growth in population, are often faced with a significant funding requirement due to the large-scale expansion of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, roads, water and sewerage networks, etc. as a result of rapid population growth. Such a rapid rate of expansion can create major financing challenges and contribute to a significant pressure on the local economy. Development agreements are therefore often used to relieve the self-financing needs of the press communities in connection with the development of either technical or social infrastructure which the municipality otherwise does not have direct legal support to require the implementation or financing of development projects or landowners. In the position is a unanimous committee of the opinion that the financing costs of municipalities related to social infrastructure should preferably be financed by the municipality's own revenues and not by the builder or landowners, and thus ultimately by the housing buyer. In this context, it is important to clarify that the builder or landowner will most often have to incur increased costs for the development of social infrastructure, such as: the construction of a new school, to the individual purchaser of the dwelling. This can cost a dwelling with e.g. 100000 kroner – but also more or less than this amount, of course. However, there is no absolute prohibition in the Ministry’s legislative proposals on the inclusion of social infrastructure in development agreements. Thus, the Ministry has not considered it appropriate to propose an absolute ban on social infrastructure in development agreements, and the Ministry has therefore designed the legislative proposal so that, under certain conditions, social infrastructure can also be required to be included in a development agreement. However, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre, disagree with the Ministry in this area, and these parties write the following in their comments on page 2 of the vote: ‘The majority will therefore assume that there is a clear distinction between social infrastructure and technical infrastructure in the regulatory framework for development agreements. The purpose of such a distinction is that what can be defined as social infrastructure shall not be eligible for funding under a development agreement.’;» Furthermore, this majority assumes that if doubts arise as to what might be considered as technical infrastructure and social infrastructure, this can be further clarified by regulation. Furthermore, the setting reads on page 4: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, support the Plan Law Committee’s proposal to limit the use of development agreements to measures that can only be defined as technical infrastructure. This will create a clear framework for the content of development agreements and contribute to the predictability of the builder and prevent large cost transfers to housing buyers.» In addition, it says: ‘A second majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, wish to remove the possibility for the builder and the municipality to conclude an agreement to allow the builder to forge or to make other contributions to social infrastructure.’ More clearly than this, it can hardly be said. The majority of the population state clearly that there will be an absolute ban on the need to provide or finance social infrastructure such as schools or kindergartens for municipalities through extension agreements. The background to the need of the majority of committees to clarify the desire for such a clear prohibition of social infrastructure in development agreements is that this majority considers the proposed legislative proposal submitted by the Ministry to be too unclear and that the Ministry's proposal allows too much discretion on the part of the municipality in terms of the need to require social infrastructure through a development agreement, in order to allow for development. Both the Plan Law Committee and the Building Law Committee have assessed the need for regulatory regulation of development agreements. The Plan Law Committee proposes in NOW 2003:14 to limit the use of development agreements to technical infrastructure only where the municipality has a direct legal right to impose conditions. The Building Law Committee also proposes significant restrictions on the use of development agreements in NOU 2003:24, but, unlike the Plan Law Committee, will not limit their use to types of measures. I would also like to mention that several of the hearing bodies have strongly conflicting views on what a development agreement should cover. On the part of the municipalities, for example: not a great deal of understanding of strict regulation, whereas from the developer’s side, the landowner’s side and the various stakeholders of the housing buyers, such as The Consumer Council, has been called for a very strict regulation of the law in this field. The conclusion is that a clear majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre want a clear distinction between social and technical infrastructure, and that a legal regulation is designed to clearly prohibit the inclusion of social infrastructure as part of local authorities' requirements for the content of development agreements. Finally, I have to say that the paradox of the matter is that the majority's desire to prohibit the possibility of agreeing social infrastructure in development agreements has not been directly derived from the legislative proposal as it now stands in the position. This is due to a somewhat strange maneuvering of SV, which I believe must be responsible for the fact that there does not seem to be a majority for any clear prohibition in the form of law against social infrastructure in development agreements. SV says one thing in their comments, but actually does the opposite when they support the government's legislative proposals, which open up social infrastructure in development agreements. This seems improperly strange. As rapporteur of the case, I would urge the SV to ensure, during the vote, that the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party to Section 64(b), the content of the Agreement, third to fifth paragraphs, possibly the third and fourth paragraphs, is adopted. Finally, I just have to ask for a few more seconds to correct a mistake in the setting on page 16, second column at the bottom. In the event of an incurrency, the word «not» is omitted in the text of § 64e of the Act. The correct wording is also set out in the proposal for Section 64(e) of the majority, which is promoted on pages 13 and 14 of the vote. Paragraph 64(e) is replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may provide additional rules on contractual requirements, types of measures that may be covered, including the non-contractual nature of specified measures and the manner in which the terms of the contract are to be implemented.’;» I would also like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e151	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e154	It is currently very unusual for development agreements where builders are required to pay for all or part of the social infrastructure. This applies even in key strokes and in press areas. So when the government proposes that social infrastructure should be included in a development agreement, it's something new. When the Workers' Party, together with the Advance Party and the Center Party, opposes kindergartens, schools, etc. to be able to enter into a development agreement, it does not mean that one reverses a development that has already taken place, but that one wants to put an end to an unfortunate development that is in its infancy. When we want to introduce legislation that puts an end to the obligation on builders to cover social infrastructure costs, it does not mean giving the builders a gift package or economic added value in relation to today's situation. No, that means that we want to legislate what is essentially today's practice. We must bear in mind that the regime we set up in this sector must last over time, in high economic conditions and in low economic conditions. The government would hardly have thought of proposing what it is doing now, in 1993, because then the housing would hardly have started again after five years of recession. But it is essentially the principle aspects of the case that the Workers' Party is opposed to the inclusion of social infrastructure in a development agreement. We believe it is important to maintain that some of the costs are actually intended to be covered by the tax we pay. Schools and kindergartens are a good example of this. Increased use of development agreements that include social infrastructure can also be seen as an expression that getting new residents does not pay off to municipalities. I believe that here we are facing a structural economic problem for the municipalities that should be solved in completely different ways than through development agreements. When Terje Søviknes is given the opportunity to draw up migrant accounts, others should refrain from compiling resident accounts. Almost all the hearing bodies considered that the reason for the more extensive use of development agreements is that municipalities are struggling with poor finances. The Labour Party believes that the challenges facing municipalities in the press areas can be solved in better ways than by shifting the bill for social infrastructure to the housing buyers. In the context of the treatment of the housing notification, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV proposed a grant for area development to encourage overall planning and compensation for investment costs. The Labour Party also proposed a grant scheme per year. housing for municipalities which build dwellings in addition to a certain minimum level. In addition, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre proposed to establish a loan arrangement through the Husbank where municipalities can obtain interest and tax deferrals on loans for the purchase of land. These are schemes that would enable municipalities to build dwellings as the number of inhabitants increases. What SV believes in this matter is quite unclear and difficult to read from the setting. If this gets clearer after the debate, just hope. I also hope that SV will follow up what is stated in the comments from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre, that social infrastructure should not be included in a development agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e171	The starting point for this case is the fact that some municipalities have a pressure to expand so much that they find it difficult to accept new residents. The reason for the high funding demands of rapid population growth is the expansion and operation of kindergartens, schools, nursing homes and residential and treatment centres, as well as infrastructure such as roads, water and sewerage. A tight local economy, together with the need for balance in budgets, has been an important part of the framework conditions, while many municipalities do not wish to increase the borrowing burden further as a result of large movements. This growth problem is primarily a phenomenon among press communities in the East, but is now a theme for more and more municipalities throughout the country. This is a lot of the backbone of the fact that development agreements have been increasingly used as a source of funding for the development of land. Developments so far have shown that development agreements are most relevant in high housing and land prices. The agreements here are an instrument that has been used to clarify relations between municipalities, builders and landowners that are not regulated by law or adopted municipal plans. There is the fear of a lack of balance in the contractual terms and conditions that has created much of the discussion in recent years. Many have considered that the agreements have been used as a means of financing municipal investment by the municipality otherwise would not have been allowed to require implementation or financing by the developer. Some unfortunate agreements may have occurred, but studies show that the extent of these conditions has so far been very low. In view of the growing scale of the form of the agreement, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has found it appropriate to regulate its use. By clarifying the law, we can help to make the limit between acceptable and unacceptable contract conditions clearer, so that construction costs become more predictable. The rationale for regulating the use of development contracts is to prevent a cost overhaul of housing buyers. This will ensure predictability for both builders and municipalities. My experience with extension agreements, as former rapporteur in the municipality of Tønsberg, has been very positive. It has created better cooperation between the municipality and its builders, from which all parties have benefited. Improvements in organisation and predictability have been made. For the community, this has ensured quality and speed of development. For the inhabitants, the result has been several lower-cost dwellings. On the part of municipalities, the main advantage of development agreements is that they contribute to ensuring that plans are implemented. Local plans alone provide no assurance of implementation. The striking thing about my local experience is that some of the parties – and I am thinking in particular of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left – which in the case we are dealing with today are very concerned about putting new restrictions on opportunities and local self-government, have been local drivers to include as many elements as possible in the development agreements, such as the one on which we are dealing. both schools, kindergartens and nursing homes, and they have not been so concerned that there should be a gunnery. In my view, the disadvantage of development agreements may be that the municipality is given at the same time an opportunity to take advantage of its otherwise normal and legitimate position as a planning authority. The municipality may press a builder to accept contractual terms that distort the balance of the contract, and it may, for example: contribute to jeopardising the viability of the project. Furthermore, it is unfortunate that the use of development contracts leads to accidental cost burdens, such as: by charging the purchasers of dwellings for costs which are, in principle, to be borne by tax revenue. There is also much of the explanation that both the municipalities and the construction industry are now welcoming the Government's proposal to regulate the use of development agreements. I think that the majority of the municipal committee in its comments is a little bit unclear about what they really want, as well as what the consequences will be. If we regulate this too tight and less flexible, it will only help to reduce housing. It becomes less interesting for municipalities to conclude such agreements. They will not be able to implement all municipal measures at the time when the builders want to expand, and both builders and housing buyers will have to wait until the municipality itself can prioritise that particular development. The municipality will adhere to the order-by-order regulations, limiting the possibility of providing housing in areas where the need for new dwellings is greatest and where the builders are ready to build by forging infrastructure. Once again, it will only result in even more expensive housing in the press areas. In addition, it is almost impossible to draw a hairy border between social and technical infrastructure. It will require a precise list of illegal measures, and we should preferably try to get away from them. I am among those who have great faith in local self-government, including in terms of development agreements. I would like to promote the proposals in the matter, proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e192	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e195	Two selections have looked at how to limit and regulate the use of development agreements. The conclusions are different, but both have concluded that there is a need for regulatory regulation, both in order to ensure the ability of third parties to influence and to ensure that the municipalities do not take advantage of their position to press out beyond what is reasonable. Here at Stortinget, the debate has largely focused on how to limit building builders from being forced to finance tasks that the public is responsible for, such as school construction and operation, health housing, etc. – in short, what goes under the slightly imprecise term ‘social infrastructure’. Until last year there was actually unanimity in the Storting about this, but then the Government jumped off. So until last year it was that social infrastructure should not be able to be agreed funded by the builder. It was the order that a unanimous growth went to the government, but then the government jumped off. I guess it was because they came back with this law that has been submitted to us here at Stortinget. So the law is, as I see it, a good step in the right direction, but at all events it is not clear enough in the intentions to stop co-financing social infrastructure. Here I just want to make a point. So under Erna Solberg's tax law policy, Kommune-Norge's debt has increased. The tax bill for the rich has been financed by the fact that people have had to pay extra dividends if they get sick, they have had to pay more money for school leave, and they have been reduced in unemployment benefits. The list is way too long. What is the matter is that the government wants a development where it accepts more tax-free and lower taxes, but where responsibility for financing public tasks and other things is more and more on the individual. This has recently also been the trend in housing. We are not going back many decades – just as Torbjørn Andersen was at the moment – until it was such that the organisation of technical infrastructure was also seen as a municipal responsibility. However, it has been accepted as part of the responsibility of the builder. But the social infrastructure has in a way been the place where the majority wanted to make the big difference. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the SV are opposed to the openings contained in the Government's bill that social infrastructure could be financed through development agreements on the part of the builder, but we have disagreed on what kind of model we should choose to get it to. One can choose the positive model, which is the Plan Law Committee's model, which says what it's allowed to enter into such a kind of development agreement, or one can choose the negative model, which the majority, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Center are agreed upon, and which is adopted here today, that is, the one that outlines what is not allowed to be financed by a development agreement. The first model is clearly the easiest to handle. It is clearly the most transparent and clear – I give it to the committee majority that consists of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Labour Party, right in – but it is also the most rigid. Both the National Confederation of Construction and the letter from the Council of State of 18 April 2005 show how this can have negative consequences. I would like to encourage the majority to take a closer look and try again at the answer to question No. 4 from SV on the negative impact of the proposal. What unites a majority today is that the legal text is kept open in line with what the government is proposing, but that by introducing stricter regulations than what the government has set up, we frame up what we think should not be legal. I want to read directly from what's in the setting on page 11 at the bottom of the first column, because that's what's at the heart: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, believe that landowners/builders should not be required to finance public owned or run social infrastructure, such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals, etc. The majority believe that the Government's proposal opens this up and that it must therefore also be made clear by regulations that no agreement can be reached on the contribution or foreclosure of this type of infrastructure. ‘... That is at the heart of this matter, and what it is in a way becomes a task for the Government to ensure that it is implemented. If they can't do it properly, it's quite obvious that we need to get this case back in a suitable way, so that we can get this through, because there's a huge majority who want to shut down demands for social infrastructure. If I can get another second at the end, I'll go on to say that this is an inaccessible setting. We in SV will take the primary responsibility for this, but there are also others here who can share some of that blame.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e215	Of course, I have to admit that this is not a simple matter. On the one hand, the Christian People's Party wants freedom of agreement and differentiated arrangements for how an expansion should take place. In addition, it is important that housing development is not hindered by missing plans or money in Kommune-Noreg. That things take time in the technical field, most of us know as well. On the other hand, it is difficult to accept a law that can impose large social costs, which is a municipal responsibility. The government has also tried to balance these considerations. Laws are not developed in an empty room. It has developed both healthy and unhealthy practices around Norway. Several have clear comments that social infrastructure should not be part of the development agreements. It must be pointed out. What I'm wondering is that the majority in the committee also don't see the benefits of developers being able to advance such infrastructure. It would be able to solve many projects to the delight of all parties. A multiple number here in the Chamber, the Government Party and SV, will adopt such an advance option, however somewhat limited. I'm glad. What bothers me in this matter, I have to admit, is possibly a lack of balance between the parties to the agreement. I have been in negotiations with municipalities both personally and on behalf of others, and this has not only been a positive experience. Anyone who has bought an empty space, created a project and started an application process, has interest and economy to defend. The municipality can often wait, resulting in additional costs and lack of efficiency of the contractor. The government is now giving strong leadership by pointing out that the builder is unable to incur unreasonably high costs. The fact that some entrepreneurs are required to invest in schools and hospitals for the entire municipality is, of course, unimaginable. The municipality's responsibility, therefore, cannot be transferred in its entirety to private builders and entrepreneurs and thus make Norwegian housing even more expensive or serviceable, so that not enough housing is built. Then I would like to make it clear that it is not the government party's opinion that this should happen. Of course, this must also apply to regulatory plans, which are not specifically mentioned in this debate, but are now a municipal responsibility, and which are increasingly being developed-funded projects, and it is unclear after today's legislation who is to bear financial responsibility. In my view, it is important that it is possible to speed up control plans, otherwise very much stops up. That a builder can't charge for its own expense to regulate large additional areas where the builder doesn't even have financial interests, I think it's important. Laws and regulations do not have to be such as to tempt municipalities to exploit entrepreneurs who are forced to get a solution. The appropriateness of measures, as they stand at present, in relation to the nature and extent of their development, is a narrowing of existing practices. I ask and have confidence that the Council of State in the regulation that needs to be drafted will ensure that this is also clarified. Entrepreneurs must, as a minimum, have the right to allocate costs to regulatory plans, such as those relating to roads, water and sewerage. – Then I’m actually a little excited about the final votes in this case, even though SV’s posts clarified a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e236	Local authorities have very different challenges. While some people are falconing plots to increase the population, the other people who don't know how to dispose of their land in the best possible way, or how to arrange plots for all those who want to move to the municipality. Then comes an extra challenge, of course, in relation to school, kindergarten, urban and branch functions. At the same time, over time there has been a pressing local economy and a demand for efficiency, which also means that there are several municipalities that have had to liquidate or at least reduce their own technical competence. One has then seen over time that municipalities in press areas, not only here in the Austland, but also in the Nord-Jären and in the Bergen area, and probably also other places, have developed a practice of development agreements with an ever-wide content – creative agreements and the most necessary agreements for the development of plots and housing, and where one has thus been able to negotiate new costs to builders and builders. When the Center Party is in favour of regulation today, it's because we think it's the most necessary. The whole committee is in agreement. At the same time, there is also a clear unit of reasoning that we are still going to have to make sure that there is consistency between tasks and resources in the municipal sector, and in order to have the stepping-up plan over several years that we think is necessary to correct the financial imbalances. We also thought it might be appropriate to re-examine the proposals that were voted on when we dealt with the housing notification, both as regards subsidies to the area of development, and as regards the loan arrangement through the House Bank for interest-rate and discount deferrals on land purchases for the municipalities. So to the law. What is the main question is: is the Plan Law Selection to be based on its proposal, a clear law that sets boundaries between technical infrastructure and social infrastructure, and with detailed regulations, or is the Building Law Selection to be based on its proposal? From our point of view, we are very pleased when this is so pervasive that there is a clear and broad plurality in the committee that puts the Planlov selection at the bottom of its proposal. We think it's the cleanest thing to stick to, both for the municipalities and for the developers. Last night, there was a right-sympathetic developer who asked me the question: What should one do with this legal regulation if a planlov selection is not based on? So around and unpresist he perceives what came from the Government. As far as the broad majority in the committee is concerned, I must say that I am all the more surprised that SV is now doing what they are doing, and thus joining the Right and Christian People's Party's proposal in the committee. SV is in the layers of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party on all the comments with the premises that have been made. Then it's reasonable inconsistent to vote in favour of an alternative bill. Let me conclude by saying that this is a part of the legal text that the whole committee is discussing, including the need for regulations. So far, I have recorded that there is a need for deepening in relation to the proposition when it relates to what is least the case with municipal decisions – the proposition is quite complete there, but it is perceived to be unclear – and likeins when it relates to the foundation for the participation of the groups and interests involved, in addition to the deepening that may be necessary to set boundaries between technical and social infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e255	The starting point for proposing a law on development agreements, i.e. to get a change into the law to regulate it, is the need to have clarity on what is a legal framework around what is currently fully contractually free. It is therefore not the case that the Government has proposed some sort of liberalisation or something new, it is the issue of regulating an area where there is today freedom of agreement, and we have seen some areas that we have seen as very problematic. The whole purpose of promoting it is among other things. to clarify the rights of both parties and to reduce the costs that can be passed on to the purchaser of the dwelling in relation to the type of infrastructure. I understand that it can be easy and easy to say that you are going to have a ban on social infrastructure, and I also thought that should be the main point of this. But there's a big difference between thinking it's going to be a main point, and making an absolute law decision against it, because you still have to remember that using a development agreement is an alternative to using the order determination in the Planning and Building Act. My main counter-representation against absolute laws of this type – which means that I have also changed my position during this time – is the fact that I want a high level of housing in Norway. I want it to be interesting for the municipalities to facilitate housing construction, and that they should not experience that there is such a cost distortion that it becomes like it has happened in some municipalities, that they have actually preferred to limit the housing construction. It is possible that the Workers' Party will have solutions to all of this through other income transfer systems, money and the local economy. I just want to remind you that there were some of the richest municipalities in the country that started with development agreements. It is a moment before the Workers' Party raises all the municipalities of the country to that level. Moreover, none of these proposals are repeated in their budgets. I am almost unable to take the housing effort to the Workers' Party seriously when you have gone out with such big words, and then cannot enter the alternative budgets and priorities of your own party in the future. In my opinion, the attitude of the Municipal Committee is confusing reading. We have tried to create neat conditions in terms of the content and use of development agreements. I understand that sometimes someone can ask the question, how are we going to understand it? Because there's a lot of juice in this. But it's because it's not possible to clearly distinguish between technical and social infrastructure. In addition, the main point is that technical infrastructure must also distinguish between what measures can initially be required for cost-sharing and where it is not possible to do so. There are also questions about how much it should be allowed to do at the technical level. In order to clean this up, and to provide a solution that takes into account both future cost-sharing and user-payment models, etc., we suggested that there should be no distinction between different types of measures, but that there should be restrictions on contract use. Agreements between public authorities and private individuals have otherwise been incorporated in many sectors and in the legal system, and providing such leadership as the Plan Law Committee proposed and now the Committee wishes will, in our view, lead to both a lack of interpretation and a lack of coherence in several areas. I am pleased that the committee majority wants to adopt the Government's legislative proposal, with some adjustments. To a certain extent, it may be interpreted as agreeing with the proposal, with the adjustments required by a regulation prohibiting contributions to some municipal measures. On the other hand, I would like to point out that it seems that the Committee would like the Ministry to introduce the restrictive proposal of the Plan Law Committee by regulation, without saying it in plain terms. So it's kind of confusing, and you're going to have to try to figure it out. I want to say something about the social consequences of this. In my view, the social consequences of a ban on the conclusion of agreements on the cost sharing of municipal measures necessary for the development of residential areas will lead to a reduction in housing construction. Municipalities will not be able to afford to implement all municipal measures themselves, and the builders and housing buyers must therefore wait until the municipality itself can give priority to these measures. The ban will also mean missing the benefits of quality improvement and cooperation in the rational use of agreements, as well as waiting for municipal budgets. Everyone who knows the construction industry and the business cycle knows how much time has to say to keep up the building pace. That's why it's not like we didn't want to figure out how to do this in 1993. I would assume that in 1993, some local politicians might have been somewhat more restrained in making demands, but in any case it would have been necessary to have this in 1993 as well. The problem now is that there is uncertainty about housing construction in the press areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e270	If a builder wants to build typical family homes in an area with poor coverage of kindergartens and schools, the municipality may, according to the Government's proposal, require housing builders to pay for kindergartens and schools. However, if the builder instead builds apartments adapted to good adult people without children, the municipality cannot require such an extension agreement. Into the one house that gets empty, it moves families of children. It requires the municipality to build schools and kindergartens. This is quite common in my municipality. Then the municipality is still responsible. I would like to ask the Council of State: how will the municipalities of growth solve such challenges with the development agreement now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e275	The representative Signe Eye has just justified the reasoning that according to this proposal, if you have development contracts, you will only build homes for well-informed adults who will not have children, because you will regulate the area so that it is not adapted to families with children – if her logic should keep to the way her local politicians think. Because now you don't even want to have the opportunity to shoot money into a kindergarten. Let me say a little bit about these difficulties. When it comes to demarcating social infrastructure owned and operated by the public, it becomes extremely difficult in relation to many different variants of ownership and operation. For example, what happens? if a OPS agreement is concluded and the municipality is to take over free of charge after a certain number of years, or if, for example, as part of the package, a private kindergarten is to be started by those who live there? Is it not to make demands, or is it to make demands? The problem does not go away, namely that municipalities will always have to choose by having to take into account the amount of expenditure on new investments they can afford to cover their budgets. Nor has the Workers' Party resolved in relation to the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e282	Governments say that the prohibition of social infrastructure in development agreements will create uncertainty about housing construction in press communities. We know that press municipalities are large municipalities, which often have good advice, and they often have a bourgeois majority. The Council of State also referred to the order determination, e.g. that kindergarten, school and nursing homes must be built first. Then is my challenge: why not let private build these schools? The local economy is not a relevant issue at all. Privates can build schools and run schools. Privates can build nursing homes and operate nursing homes. Privates can build kindergartens and run kindergartens. Then the problem that the Council of State is so worried about disappears. I would also like to have a little more detailed explanation of how, after all, the Council of State considers the desire of the majority of people to ban social infrastructure in development agreements, and how she will deal with this and come back with it in the form of regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e291	For me, private people like to care for the elderly and build kindergartens and schools, but I'm not so naive that I don't expect this to cost the municipalities that they have to bear. Buildings must, for example: is rented when it is a municipal responsibility to run school, and the maximum price of kindergartens gives a census in relation to this. There's not a full user payment here. So it's clear that the municipalities will take into account the question in relation to an extension. In particular, the large extensions aggregate in a way demands on social infrastructure and measures. That's why our arrangement primarily provides an opportunity to advance this for repayment. It is clear that it will also create political anticonceptions in the municipalities if we say that we build an area and that means that the municipality's money goes to a new school where rather than rehabilitating the school that our children attend. That's the kind of thing that happens. This is a difficult dilemma, which must always be taken into consideration. Here we tried to make the choices a little bit easier. We tried to reach a consensus where it was interesting for both the builders and the municipalities to get a good housing structure. Now I think that tilts the wrong path with what the majority has added up to. In particular, we'll see how we can solve the regulatory problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e296	The Council of State Solberg must resolve the problem because otherwise the suspension of the Planlov committee will be adopted. That's the consequence. So what Erna Solberg says is that if the proposal is adopted, the residential building will go down. In particular, she says that at least it does so with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the proposal of the Centre Party. But there's an alternative way. This is the way in which the second majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, stands, namely to ensure that a public land policy in which the public goes in and is a property owner, is pursued. But the prerequisite for doing that is that you have favourable loan arrangements, which have thus been downgraded here on the Grand Prix of the Advance Party and the Government Parties, and grants for area development, which are also downgraded by the Progress Party and the Government Parties. Erna Solberg says that because the municipalities can't afford to build schools, it won't be housing expansion. There is only one thing that helps: favourable lending schemes for schools and better local economy. So Erna Solberg is not interested in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e303	If there's one thing I've used to talk about in this room about the municipal economy, it's that I give too much to the press municipalities in relation to the district councils, and that the redistribution I've done in the income system has had such an impact that it's been wrong. It is true that if I start counting on some of the individual municipalities that we are talking about here, I have much more money than Heikki Holmås had given to the same municipalities. You're not willing to sit in Finnmark and say that because we now need to have more housing in those areas where there is already pressure, we will redo allocate more resources there, and more of the money will be spent there. He is not willing to make the choices about moving money to the press areas. So a little bit of a relationship could probably be expected there. We agree that we should limit the use of money on social infrastructure. We wanted us to still have a greater openness to advance, and that we should have a piece of legislation that was not static, but that we could find solutions within it. I realize that sometimes it can be politically difficult to communicate, because it seems so easy to have a flat ban on it. When it comes to regulations, of course, we're going to try to follow the majority, look at what opportunities we have. We're also going to have it at the hearing. Then I have to decide whether we have to go back to Stortinget and discuss the boundaries of this before we possibly let it take effect. I think it might be natural to do that, because the setting is a little bit unclear on some points.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e314	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is over, but the President proposes that we finish the debate on this matter before we finish the meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e319	For the sake of order: the debate on the municipal economy to which the Council of State referred mainly concerned the overall framework of the municipal sector. Let me, from the Center Party's side, make it very clear that we want to contribute to the organisation of housing in the press area, and we want to help the municipalities of growth have an economy that makes them take care of their tasks. But in fact, we also want to contribute to a law that specifies what development agreements should involve. I'm very sorry that we haven't managed to unite here. We're putting the Council of State in a difficult situation, because here's a broad majority that says something in the notes, and then there's another plurality that provides the legal text. I would like to ask her once more when it comes to page 11: Has she ever, as a councillor, been in such a situation that there is another plurality that tells what the regulations should contain, other than the plurality behind the proposal that is agreed in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e324	I have probably felt that there have been different majority behind the legislative proposals and leading on regulations during my time at Stortinget, both in terms of taxes and other issues. But I have never experienced that we have been in a situation where you really suggest that the regulation should limit what is not in the legal text. So it is assumed that the regulation should contain something other than that legal text initially permits. There's a significant restriction that lies here. That is why I have also said that I am looking at the possibilities. We have a strong wish that we should get started quickly, because there are a lot of people who are now sitting and waiting for this law. A lot of people sit strategically and wonder. I think there'll be a lot of chaos in the next few months: what do we do now, when the law has become like that? Now I think that the local authorities' interest in using this law is at all being significantly subdued, if we're going to add the leadership that's in the regulation. I think I'll have to take some time to think about it. We're going to try to do a job in relation to what the majority of people add to the regulations. If that leads to problems, of course we'll come back to Stortinget. If we feel that there is a basis for drawing a clearer framework here, we must somehow communicate with the Stortinget in order to have a dialogue with the understanding of the majority. I do not believe that this is a matter of spending myself with a large majority on. We initially agree on some of the direction, but we disagree a little bit about the technique and view of the consequences we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e329	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e335	Governments have expressed some views on how she understands the treatment of the Storting. But, of course, it is not at least essential how Storting itself understands its treatment. Then it is essential to deepen the elements that have been central to the debate and that were also central to the change of lines. What we can see is that a majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre, say that ‘a legislative regulation is being introduced which clearly prohibits the inclusion of social infrastructure as part of the local authorities' requirements for the content of a development agreement’. It's a completely unambiguously clear statement. Thus, at the same time as the Council of State referred to, the starting point is that the Right Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party have agreed that the agreement may also be "in order that the landowner or builder should provide or pay in full or in part" etc. It also states that the agreement ‘may in any case apply to the advance of municipal measures’. Then comes the third, that the Socialist Left Party, which is part of the majority, together with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, says that ‘there is no need to require that landowners/builders be required to finance public property or run social infrastructure, such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals etc.’, and that ‘there is therefore also a need to state by regulations that no provision can be made for the provision of this type of infrastructure’. The first point of interpretation will naturally be that there is a direct contradiction between what is adopted, with an opening to finance social infrastructure and for shooting, and the majority comment. In all respects, the decision must be interpreted in a restrictive way in relation to what the majority says, that social infrastructure such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals should not be eligible for funding, nor can regulations be introduced to promote it. In other words, the minimum that must be understood by Stortingen’s treatment is that it is not a legislative pre-work that provides the basis for funding social infrastructure for schools, kindergartens and hospitals, nor the promotion of it. In other words, there must be talk about the remaining part of social infrastructure. Then I assume that this is how the comments have to be understood. And then it's natural question to the representative Holmås: what is to understand as social infrastructure, beyond schools, kindergartens and hospitals etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e348	I fully agree with Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen that this is the challenge. The whole point of this legislative process has been that the Council of State has clearly said that we cannot make a perfectly clear distinction and say social infrastructure on the one hand and technical infrastructure on the other, because there are also a number of things in the middle. It's just to refer to the answer to question 4, which I also mentioned in my previous post, where it's clear. With a rigid definition according to the decision of the Planning Committee, to which the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party add, there will be a good deal of things of the type of common areas, among others. which will be excluded from the possibility of entering into this type of agreement. We believe that in SV is wrong. We believe that the things that are in the middle must be in place – this is the best I can give in response to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. Then I am also pleased that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen clarified to the Council of State exactly what is on page 11, because that is what the bulk of the population is meant to be, and what we are sending out a clear signal about. As this regulation is laid down, which is otherwise designed on the basis of legal assistance from the Ministry and from the Government, it is likely that we will have a more frequent update of the regulation than we would have had had if the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the proposal of the Centre Party had become the basis. Because it is clear that there could always be a need to change the threshold in order to ensure that things that will emerge, and which we believe are social infrastructure, are not covered by development agreements. That's the challenge, and that's what I said right from the start is the challenge: if you choose positive to say what you can have with it, it's very simple, but it gets square and rigid and little flexible. Instead of doing the same thing as the majority of the population today is choosing to say that we have these openings, with the tightening of the government's bill, but at the same time says in the regulation that the regulation should further delineate the things that we will at any time perceive to be 'publicly owned or run social infrastructure, such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals,' as it says, that is the space that the executive body, namely the government, will have to interpret this law and follow up from its side. Then we just have to, just as it's added up to of course, follow the development further, so that we constantly observe what's happening in this field. I feel that, as Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen also said, we give a clear mandate to the Government: go out and get this done! And if they don't get it, they'll get back, and then they'll know what the Storting decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e359	I don't want to contribute in any way to prolong the debate. But I'm very clear that there's one more area where a precision from SV's side is needed. It is easy so that on page 4 of the setting, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party say that they: ‘desires to remove the possibility for the builder and the municipality to conclude an agreement to allow the builder to forge or to make other contributions to social infrastructure’; So in the same section 64(b), which we have already discussed, the proposal of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party is that the agreement cannot ‘apply to the advance of municipal measures necessary for the implementation of plan decisions’, whereas SV is now on a proposal that reads as follows: ‘The agreement may in any case concern the advance of municipal measures necessary for the implementation of plan decisions.’; Then the question becomes: What type of advance is SV not allowed after the comment they are included in?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e374	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e377	I think it's funny that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa asks that question, because she herself shares the remark that I quoted from the pulpit instead. Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa asks: What type of gunning is the SV not going to be allowed? Then I read again: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, believe that landowners/builders cannot be required to finance public owned or run social infrastructure, such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals, etc.’.» If that's a good enough answer for Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, there's a reason to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower.ana.ud2282e387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The morning's meeting is now over, and Odelstinget will continue in a new meeting at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 527]]
