ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e37	Finn Martin Vallersnes, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate from the Telemark County, Magnhild Holmberg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e53	The representative, Ms Eriksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e56	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals on compulsory second foreign language in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e61	The representative Ulf Leirstein will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e64	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am delighted to propose a reduction in the tax on petrol and car diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e69	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e72	On behalf of the representatives Arne Sortevik, Magnhild Holmberg and myself, it is a very great pleasure to make proposals to cancel the debt of the bomb-financed transport project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e78	The proposal and proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e98	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen. The President will ask the representatives to use the Chair in front of the President's office, while the respondent will use the President's face to see when the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e109	The riots in France are clearly a consequence of a lack of integration policy. Night shift employees in France have recently written that the main factor here is neither housing, unemployment nor crime, but the fact that young people are unable to complete normal schooling. Here in Norway, we know that more and more young people with immigrant background are dropping out of school. Many will avoid the so-called search of their children, by sending them to school in Pakistan and other countries, and one third of all young people under the age of 18 now have a migrant background in Norway. What will the Prime Minister do, and what requirements will the Government impose on Norwegian education, on parents' responsibility for their children Norwegian when they start school? What requirements will the Government make, so that people with a migrant background in Norway actually follow Norwegian laws and regulations rather than their own culture? At all, will the Government take action actively to prevent the present conditions from coming to Norway? In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has stated that it will increase the number of asylum seekers to 1500 and also pursue a so-called more humane asylum policy. We can read in the paper today that the police now want reporting obligations for asylum seekers. This is also a problem that has entered the same street, precisely because when asylum seekers who are refused go underground, they do not have legitimate ways to obtain income, work and housing, thus normalising their everyday lives. There is a risk of developing a new sub-class that only feeds on crime. These are serious signs in time, which the Government must take seriously. It means increased focus on and more stringent integration requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e122	I believe that this is a very important question the representative Jensen raises. In the Soria Moria Declaration and in the documents we are about to promote for the Storting, the government has committed itself to strengthening integration policy. It is precisely because ensuring that our new countrymen, ethnic minorities, become part of the community and are not being outcast is important not only for all the people involved, but it can also help to reduce the risk of social conflicts, crime and other problems that result if integration policies fail. That's why we first went for Norwegian training. The Workers' Party has been in for many years. It's decided by the previous big thing, and of course we'll follow it up. Then we have been in favour of perhaps the most targeted action, namely strengthening labour market policy. High unemployment, a lack of participation in the labour market, is the main cause of a lack of integration. Training measures, assistance in filling applications and helping to get into work are among the most targeted things we can do to contribute to integration. We will also strengthen the provision of childcare facilities in order to contribute to Norwegian training, both through free short-stay accommodation and through improved coverage in general. Moreover, it is not correct that the Government has committed itself to increasing the number of asylum seekers, on the contrary. We want to help make it go down. But what we've been in favour of is increasing the number of quota refugees to 1,500, which is the level we've had in Norway for many years. We want more stringent policies on the deployment of those who do not have legal residence requirements here in the country. We want to comply with the 48-hour rule, and we want stronger measures to return asylum seekers who do not have the right to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e131	These are positive signs from the Prime Minister. But it is still the case that many of the asylum seekers who are refused their residence applications in Norway go underground simply because we do not have a system of automatic deportation when the refusal is a fact. So it means, with today's system, that living on an asylum reception is voluntary. There is clearly a need for strong sanctions, so that we do not risk the emergence of so-called new sub-classes that feed on crime, simply because we do not have legal means to raise income in Norway. It's going to be a serious problem if the government doesn't take this seriously and take measures to prevent Norwegian society from being covered. Police estimate that perhaps 20,000 asylum seekers who have been rejected over the years are illegally located in Norway somewhere. It's a problem the government has to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e136	Anyone illegally present in Norway should leave the country as soon as possible. It is clearly fixed, among others. in the Soria Moria Declaration. We want to follow up and launch rapid return of manifestly groundless asylum seekers, that this will happen in 48 hours. We want to strengthen the effort to send out of the country others who do not have the right to legal residence. We want to review the legislation to make this possible. We want to increase the use of resources to return asylum seekers who do not have the right to stay, for example. by negotiating return agreements with several countries. One of the problems is that the recipient countries do not want to accept those we want to return. Then we need to agree on that. We will follow that up in the near future. So while we are strict about rejecting those who do not have a right to stay, and sending them out, we want to strengthen the integration policy, so that those who are entitled to stay, learn Norwegian, enter the labour market, get a good reception and can contribute to the community, as we are all served with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e143	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e146	I hope that the Government will also continue to work on what the previous government is working on, namely a limited reporting obligation related to those who are unidentified and who are therefore difficult to return. That area is probably the only area where reporting obligations can be required today, and not on a general basis. I think it's going to be a little special if we're going to link asylum policy to what's going on in France. What's happening in France is that it's the generation that's born and grown up there and is French, but with a different background, that actually makes some kind of violent uprising. It tells us that it is primarily the descendants and parents' ability to follow up their children, on which it becomes important to focus. Then it's like every time I hear the Workers' Party's representatives talk about integration policy – I hope we don't make it a party policy – you're very concerned about the general arrangements. However, in some areas special measures need to be taken. Then my question is, is it that the government that has now come will also launch special measures for special groups, or will you just build on the general arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e153	We want to combine general measures and special measures. We believe in the broad schemes, such as a broad labour market policy, a good public common school for everyone, a good housing policy; all these are general measures that have the effect that they also help to integrate. If we keep low unemployment and get a lot of jobs, it also helps to facilitate integration policy. In addition to this, we need targeted action. For this reason, the Government, for the first time in the Soria Moria Declaration, has gone into the process of extending the introduction programme to more groups than the former government provided, so that more people will participate in Norwegian education and training in social literacy than the previous government provided. It is a specifically targeted measure. Secondly, we are in favour of introducing a free core time system in kindergartens in areas where there is a high proportion of children with a minority background. It is a very targeted measure to help children learn Norwegian in the past, so that they are more rusty when they start school. So we have to do both. This government is going to do significantly more in terms of integration than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e163	Åse Gunhild Voie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e166	Unemployment among immigrants in Norway is three times higher than in the rest of the population. A stranger’s name can be enough to throw applications alone. If some groups feel that they are not being seen and included, there may be concerns, as we have seen in France recently. The Christian People's Party believes that the IA Agreement should focus in particular on including people with a minority background in working life, and we believe that there is a need for an action plan for integration. We also believe that increased access to temporary employment is necessary, because it will lower the threshold into the labour market for many of those excluded. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the integration of immigrants into the labour market becomes an objective of the new IA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e175	We haven't started work on renegotiating a new agreement on inclusive working life, but I'm very positive that the integration of minorities should also be part of that work. Just how we follow up on the agreement, I have to be allowed to come back to, but the idea seems to me to be very good. I also agree that it is very important to do a lot to reduce unemployment among ethnic minorities. This is one of the reasons why this government, unlike the previous, is committed to focusing on labour market policy. There's a bridge back in work for everyone who's about to fall out of it. We feel that there is a high level of unemployment in these groups, although the unemployment rate is totally low. Some Norwegian training, help to fill in applications and some qualification are very important for ethnic minorities, so that they get to work. Labour market measures are the most important measures to achieve this. That's why we want to strengthen them – not build them down, as we've seen in recent years. It is an important contribution to integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e184	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e187	This debate gives us an opportunity to reflect, to think about what we can do better in Norway — and at the same time be proud. To say with an old socialist slogan that I'm sure the Prime Minister likes: be proud, but not satisfied. My starting point is that one of the most important factors in creating a real society, in order to give people a chance of integration, is education. In my opinion, maybe Oslo City, Oslo School, is one of the most important integration venues in this country, which is very rarely found. And then I go straight to the point. Doesn't the Prime Minister see that a mandatory foreign language would help to recognise the resources that minorities represent, and that in that way you reach out and say, "We give you your hand and you give us your hand, and we show that you belong to it?" Will the Prime Minister reconsider the Government's position on another foreign language, or at least respond to applications from all municipalities wishing to use such a different foreign language? The City Council of Oslo, for example, wants to do that, because they – just like me – are convinced that it will promote integration and create a more real society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e196	The answer to the question is no. This is because we believe that some children will benefit more from learning, for example. better English than learning both English and another foreign language. We need to strengthen foreign language training in school, because we're no longer going to have it so that it's optional and does not count for admission. But we believe that one should be able to choose either another foreign language or, for example, another foreign language. depression in English. For very many children, it will mean stronger language training and better prerequisites for dealing with international issues than with the language training we have today, and with the one proposed by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e201	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e204	The riots in France spring from ghettos. In Norway, we may also have a tendency to build up ghettos. In the period 1998–2003, 11,000 ethnic Northmen moved out of the Groruddalen. In the same period, almost 20,000 people with a migrant background moved into the same area. Among this immigrant population, there may be 60 pst within some groups. unemployment. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister share the concern of the Progress Party regarding the tendency to build ghettos also in Norway, with a sub-class of immigrant population, that it is growing, and that it tends to spread to other parts of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e211	Yes, we are concerned that it will evolve or intensify trends towards an ethnic sub-class. But let me first stress that there are very many ethnic minority backgrounds in Norway that do well, that create jobs, that receive education and that go very well. So it's important not to paint black. At the same time, we know that, for example: unemployment, low income and some social problems are more common in ethnic minorities than in the rest of the population, and we have to do something about that. That is why, through the Soria Moria Declaration, we have also presented a programme to significantly step up efforts for integration through labour market policies aimed specifically at ethnic minorities, by strengthening childcare provision, through free core time in urban areas where there are many with ethnic minority backgrounds, and by extending the introduction programmes that the Workers' Party has taken the initiative in its time, so that far more Norwegian and social education will be provided with our approach than with the arrangements of the outgoing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e216	We move on to the next main question – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e219	Let me first say that I want to be happy with the integration policy. It's actually one of the most important issues in finding good common solutions. But there are so many other important issues where it seems a little unclear what the government really means. For a long time, the Right Party and the Labour Party – at least the majority of the Workers' Party – have agreed on European policy. We have agreed on the need to have a good approach to the EU, even if we are outside – not least because we have left so much of our power in terms of rules and regulatory changes, through the EEA Agreement, through directive changes. The Soria Moria Declaration states that a more offensive European policy should be pursued, and I note that the Foreign Minister has also been out there saying that a more offensive European policy should be pursued. But it's a little bit difficult to find the nucleus of what it's going to be. What in the Soria Moria Declaration is the most concrete expression of a more offensive European policy, is among other things. the possibility of being opposed to a service directive. In addition, Minister of Environment Helen Bjørnøy has been out rattling with the veto related to the new Chemicals Directive. So far, then, is the expression of a more offensive European policy to use veto. The veto question has, among other things: The Prime Minister commented earlier. Last year he said – he was a big representative – that the veto issue was a sluggish instrument, and the former head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has said that before we might veto it, we must think that others can veto us. My conclusion to the question is: is it the veto right that is the new European policy, or is it another, more active European policy the Prime Minister thinks about in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e229	The government is to pursue a more active European policy, because it is to take care of Norwegian interests, and it is to contribute to a cooperation in Europe that is important to us whether we are a member of the EU or not. On the one hand, the active European policy is to be carried out through the EEA Agreement, and on the other through other agreements that link us to Europe, such as: The Schengen Agreement and other agreements we cooperate with the EU through. We want to make much more active use of our opportunities to influence, for example. such directives as the Services Directive or the interpretation of directives, the design of new directives as regards the possibility of introducing a differentiated employer's fee, or a reduced employer's fee, abroad in Norway. We also want to influence the design of the Chemicals Directive. So we say, and I think that is quite obviously right, that when there is a reservation access in the EEA Agreement, it would be totally wrong to exclude using it. There may be situations where it is right to use the reservation access, and that is why the Foreign Minister and I myself have underlined – and it is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration – that it can be used. At the same time, it has been historically so that the time when the use of the reservation access has been assessed, it has been assessed that the countermeasures, which are also provided for in the EEA Agreement, are more demanding and cost more than the gain by using the so-called veto right. It is not possible to assess before we take a decision on the specific issues, so we have to assess when we might find ourselves in situations where we are going to decide whether or not to use a reservation access. However, it is essential that we have an active European policy at many levels, both bilaterally towards different European capitals – both the Minister for Foreign Affairs, myself and several other Councils – and against the European Union and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e236	The Prime Minister shall be sure that the Right will help us to have an active European policy. But there is something about the fact that when the expression of a new direction in foreign policy is primarily to rattle with the veto table and to withdraw from cooperation and participation in international operations, it seems that the foreign policy of the new government is a line of confrontation rather than a line of cooperation. Then there will be a fundamental question, not least for a government that, with the support of a broad scale, has thought that Northern Region policy is one of the most important areas in which we have and should be committed: if, at the same time, we pursue a foreign policy that in many areas makes us friendless, without partners and without participants, what will we be able to achieve from friendship – if we only pursue a policy of confrontation, not just across the Atlantic, but also in parts of areas related to the EU countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e241	This government shall not pursue a policy of becoming friendless. On the contrary, we're going to have a policy to build friendship. We are already doing that well, and I myself feel close friendship with the prime ministers I have had the opportunity to meet. Whether it is the Danish, Swedish or British Prime Minister, the outgoing German Chancellor or others, I feel that we are building friendship. I'm sure they feel it themselves, and the Foreign Minister could tell from his excellent trip to Washington that he also built friendship with the US Secretary of State. So we have a policy for cooperation and friendship. We're not subtracting from international operations. We're changing the policy in that area, stepping up somewhere, stepping down somewhere else. This will be explained by the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence later today. We have an active foreign policy and an active European policy.We have many friends in the world, and we will have even more in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e248	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e251	There is no doubt that throughout the history of the EEA Agreement there has been a gap between the three governmental parties. Thus, the notified use of the right of reservation is a formulation which can be seen as a compromise. The Labour Party has never seen itself, either in government or in opposition, to use it as an instrument, and it is certainly a rather passive way of approaching our European policy. Wouldn't it have been better to take an offensive approach in relation to seeing the EEA agreement starting to go out on date? The EEA Agreement needs an upgrade, needs to be upgraded to meet the changes that have occurred in the EU, and the problems we are now seeing in relation to fish exports, etc. We have a lot of needs here. This is the area where we should have announced a new policy towards the EU, and not by putting ourselves on the back legs and using the right of reservation in a way that Norway has not done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e256	I think it has to be possible to understand that it is possible to do several things at the same time. It is both possible to be more active in relation to Norwegian fishing interests, whether it is in the WTO or vis-à-vis Europe – the salmon case again illustrates its importance – to be active in relation to Norwegian energy interests, to be active in relation to other issues where we have interests towards European countries and towards the EU, especially when questions arise, but at the same time to be aware that when there is a reservation access, it cannot be excluded that it can be put into service. In fact, it can also be an important tool in the negotiations with the EU to show that there is a reservation access, and then you get a solution that doesn't have to be used. To put it this way: Gro Harlem Brundtland has said that the veto right can be used, and then Jonas Gahr Støre and Jens Stoltenberg believe it too!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e263	Per Kristian Foss - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e266	There is nothing new in the Prime Minister's three minutes and now, every four minutes, about the implications of active European policy. All this has been done by changing governments with greater or lesser luck depending on how many friends you have met, or on the kind of threats that the Prime Minister has now suggested during the negotiations. The only new thing that has been said is that you have the right to reserve. Everyone knows it exists, but the new thing is that this government is actively pulling it forward and saying it should be usable. My question is then twofold: does the Prime Minister think that drawing out and using the right to reserve will increase our ability to influence the EU's decision-making processes, i.e. where the EU itself is in a process, and where we want to influence it? And point 2: What makes the Prime Minister now think that the gain of using the right of reservation can be greater than by not using it, as opposed to what he said to the Newspaper in September this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e273	I have always believed that the right of reservation can be exercised. But in the specific cases where I have considered whether it was appropriate to use it, for example. on the Gas Market Directive, which obviously had some of the provisions we initially thought were incorrect, or on other specific directives, the balancing of the gain by using the right of reservation against the countermeasures and the costs of using them has ended with the fact that we have chosen not to use the right of reservation. Of course, there may be situations in the future where a different conclusion is reached in the balance. It's a little hard to wonder in what cases that might be the case, before we actually see how serious the problems will be in relation to, for example. new directives against possible countermeasures. But e.g. the original proposal for a service directive, which severely weakened the rights of workers in Norway, would be a directive in which it was at least appropriate to consider the use of reservation rights. But now it seems that the directive is getting better, and then the problem will no longer be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e278	Jon Lilletun - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e281	As a participant in the EEA Agreement, the Christian People's Party has always been concerned that the right to make reservations can be applied. We have taken it so seriously that even while we were in government, we voted against the Patent Directive. I remember very well the discussions the times we've gone to use the right of reservation, and the argument that the representative Stoltenberg and other representatives from the Workers' Party used. One went very far beyond what Gro Harlem Brundtland had previously said in order for it to be used. A cancel it about. I thought it would be real for the Prime Minister today to say that because he has gone into a three-party government, a corrected course has something to do with that, and one is now getting more into what the Christian People's Party has been doing for a long time, that it may be a matter of time, for example. in relation to the Chemicals Directive. I thought the Prime Minister would insist on saying that he is using a somewhat different argument now because it is a tripartite government, as the Labour Party has done for all the years since we got the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e291	So it was the Workers' Party that was in the driver's seat when we negotiated the EEA Agreement, and an important requirement for us was to have a reservation access. When we then negotiated a reservation access, it is quite obvious that there is an access we might be using. And then, of course, we can discuss the probability that it'll be used. I feel that this is a little pointless, because it is only when we are faced with specific directives, concrete considerations, that we can decide whether it is right to use the reservation access. In addition, only the existence of a reservation permit makes us stronger in negotiations. I have been involved in some of these negotiations, and so it is that you can break, that you can refuse a directive or an interpretation, that you have a somewhat greater influence over finding solutions that all parties can live with. We have argued against using reservation access in specific cases. We will certainly continue to do that, because there will certainly be new issues in which we believe that the cost of booking access is greater than the gain. But the access and the principle of being able to use it has always been there, and so we have expressed that throughout all the years with Gro Harlem Brundtland as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e302	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e305	I'm quite impressed, I, about the Prime Minister's ability to be a Co-Minister of Cooperation for three cooperation parties that in this field have very different approaches and positions. And I must be allowed to wish the Prime Minister good luck, he will need it. It's just to look at today's meeting, where he wants his parliamentary basis both in the hall and in the lawn with signs on the outside of the hall. But back to the question of reservation rights, where I stand at the same position as the representative Lilletun does, and which I believe in practice will also be the same as the Prime Minister now stands for: strong defence of the EEA Agreement, but no EU membership in this period – and I am then of those who are happy about it. I will nevertheless challenge the Prime Minister for this already after such a short time in the government offices: making reservation rights or veto rights wrong to a kind of daily speech, which the state councils have begun to do, and not talking about the possibility of enthusiasm in EEA cooperation, because I think that will be decisive in the future – does the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e312	First, I would like to say that I noticed that Sponheim is – what to say – concerned about my parliamentary basis, that some of it is in the plenary and the rest is in here. But I would say that it is better to have a parliamentary basis than not to have it, as the previous government lived with it! So I would like to say that the government councils talk with enthusiasm about a more active European policy. Everyone understands that a more active European policy involves much more than the use of reservation rights. It involves a more active north-eastern policy, a more active policy towards the European capitals, and we are in the process of doing so. It is in itself good to see that even if you have a different view of Norwegian EU membership, we agree on that message. But once again, it is that part of Norwegian European policy, part of the EEA Agreement, is to have a reservation access. And not to exclude that it can be used is a follow-up to a long line in Norwegian foreign policy. The long lines are also stuck in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e321	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e324	We have long heard a lot about the excellence of majority governments, and today's spontaneous question time is no exception – now it is also an advantage to have a part of the majority in plenary. The real test for a majority government is how it treats the minority. I have noticed that the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration says that it will ‘combat all forms of discrimination, oppression, intolerance and racism’. It's a good goal, as the Christian People's Party fully shares. One important aspect of this is the inclusion of ethnic and religious minorities, not least young people with a minority background, who are in a vulnerable phase of life. However, the question is how the Government will live up to the vision in practice. The test of tolerance is whether you respect someone who thinks something quite different than yourself, whether you tolerate some parents making choices other than the majority when it comes to children's schooling, or whether you respect the family's desire to choose something other than kindergarten. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of leading politicians in the government parties speaking in ways that do not testify to the tolerance of the government statement. We had SV's leader in the election campaign, as defined tolerance as agreeing with SV at all times, and we have also heard the head of the Workers' Party, now Prime Minister, say about the cash support: «We cannot premise those we believe have chosen incorrectly.» In the election campaign we were presented with a list, in the newspaper, of so-called extreme schools. It lists well-established schools, such as: Tryggheim's secondary school at Jären, which receives such a stamp, and the SV's member of the education committee Lena Jensen follows up what Trond Giske said at the time, and talks about'sect schools' in the magazine on 29 October. There is reason to fear fresh schools, which represent alternatives to public schools. We are concerned about these signals from the Government, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how will the Government in practice show that one tolerates and respects the parents' right to make choices about children's growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e331	Firstly, I believe that there is a very important debate on behalf of the High Commissioner, and that it is important to facilitate freedom of choice and diversity. This government has, among other things: made it clear that one still wants to open up, facilitate, provide schools with an alternative educational or religious basis. It should still be optional if you want to have the children in kindergarten, but the main point is that there should be enough children's playgrounds so that everyone who wants them can have a children's garden space. I never got it corrected in the election campaign, but I never meant to say, and at least I have never deliberately said, that we can't premise those who don't take the choices we agree with, so this can only be said to be dead and invalid. But the crucial thing is the more basic debate that the representative raises, and that is that we must show tolerance also for intolerance. We have to show tolerance for attitudes and positions that we don't like. The problem is there's a limit. For example, in the name of tolerance, we cannot accept the intersection of young girls, in the name of tolerance, accept women's oppression, in the name of tolerance, accept forced marriage, even though it is justified by different ethnic, religious traditions and cultures. We're going to show tolerance, and tolerance is about accepting diversity, accepting attitudes, accepting behavior, accepting choices that you don't like yourself, but there's a limit there too, and those limits I think actually the Dagfinn High Course and I agree in many areas, especially with regard to part of what we've seen of women's oppression, the suppression of young girls in environments where you use religion as an excuse for that kind of behavior. So I'd like to take part in that debate. It puts the Norwegian community to some difficult tests. We're going to be a diverse society, we're going to be a tolerant society, but at the same time we're going to be inflexible on some fundamental human rights, on respect for equality and respect for Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e338	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now using an opportunity he has been given countless times in the election campaign to withdraw this statement that you cannot introduce them ‘which we believe is wrong’, as he said. I also fundamentally agree with the Prime Minister that human rights must be respected, and tolerance towards human rights violations is not tolerance. But that's not what we're talking about here. In Trond Giske's list, the problem is that some schools, among other things. The Gospel Center school in Halden is based on the fact that man was created by God, and therefore they are to be threatened with losing state aid. The Workers' Party's alternative budget for the current year went in to cut 500 million. kr to just those schools that the Prime Minister now says it should be entitled to have. The question is whether the Prime Minister can now guarantee that these schools do not need to feel threatened, either by the Trond Giske's list or by cuts that make these schools just become schools for those who have the most and who can afford to pay high school fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e343	It is very clear in the Soria Moria statement that we are still going to have a private school law that makes it possible for us to have schools with an alternative educational or religious basis, and you will also see in the state budget that comes tomorrow, that of course it has been added to that. Now I'm not going to say anything more about the state budget than we're going to have to discuss it tomorrow, but we're not going to implement a policy that is raging any foundation for the private schools that we think there should be room for in Norwegian society. In the case of the private school law itself, we will come back with a revision of it at a later stage, and then I also think you'll see that it means that man is created by God, is among the things that this government absolutely tolerates. In fact, there are many in the government who strongly believe the same thing, so there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e348	There will be three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e351	The Prime Minister is very good at using beautiful words and phrases when he speaks about tolerance and freedom of choice. However, it is the actions of this government that will determine whether the Government really believes that the inhabitants of Norway should have real freedom of choice. We're facing a society where the real freedom of choice is still just a theoretical claim. Students who choose to go to private school have to pay school money to go there. It is in very many contexts that those who opt for cash support instead of kindergarten experience economic discrimination, precisely because the cash support is limited within a few years' time. The same issue applies in the care of the elderly, where there is no right today to choose better quality. This means, as I have said before, that we are actually now operating with a kind of prideful freedom of choice, which means that it is the people who can afford it in our society, who can choose alternative solutions, choose better quality. I hope that's not the government's definition of tolerance and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e357	An old contradiction in the political debate has been the view of the community and the public sector versus freedom of choice. Social democracy has always served to ensure that strong, good Community solutions are not hindered, but, on the contrary, is a prerequisite for freedom of choice. No other institution has given more individuals more freedom of choice than the outsourced public sector. It's still like that. For example, the main obstacle to freedom of choice in the care of the elderly is: that those who want home help two hours a week only get one hour a week, that those who want a sick home place do not have a sick home place, and that those who want a nursery place do not have a nursery place. This is why the most important contribution to strengthening freedom of choice is to strengthen public well-being, jointly funded, so that you get home help as many hours a week as you want, and you get the kindergarten you want. That's why this government says no to tax relief and yes to upgrading Community solutions – because it gives the individual more freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e362	Step Skei Grande, - to the next follow-up question
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e365	It's nice to see where the Government thinks that the tolerance limit goes in the different areas, but what's interesting is, as I understand the Government, that the Government wants to go back to the old law of free school, where you have to have a pedagogical or religious alternative. What the new law opens up is the right of parents to maintain small cross-border schools in small community environments that would otherwise not have been maintained, to start up again small cross-border schools in areas where there is really no basis for starting school. Is it so that the Government wants to impose on these parents either a religious or another pedagogical option in order to be allowed to have that freedom to start a school for their children, or does the Government actually want to maintain the right parents have to start such a school without imposing a religious or any other educational alternative than what they stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e372	When we want to revise and amend the private school law – whether it is exactly back to the way it was before, or whether it is built on the same main principles, we get back to when we've passed the law – because it's one very important thing, and it's that we're afraid that opening up the privatisation of the school opens up an extensive expansion of private schools that are only direct competition to public schools, the social inequalities will increase, and the diversity and freedom of choice in public schools will be built up. Here we show, among other things: In Sweden, where private school entries have gone much further and come much further, and in private schools there is less ethnic diversity, less social diversity than in public schools, and there is a clearer and clearer social and ethnic segregation in school. We believe that this is unfortunate, not least because of the debate we had earlier today, about the need for integration, and not least because of the desire for social justice. That is why we want to continue a long line in Norwegian school policy, where there was indeed broad agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party on opening up to the educational and religious alternatives, but say no to privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e377	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e380	I would like to commend the Prime Minister for having corrected himself today when it is due to let them be premiered as well as different. On the other hand, when the answer to the representative Høybråten’s question about the Prime Minister’s removal of this list was concerned, he was injured to say that a person would support the private spheres that the new government intended to exist. It is freely quoted according to the memory - one must go to the record to find it exactly. I hope that you can do an additional correction here, that of course you should also give support to schools that teach alternately, but that's not necessarily what the Prime Minister or this government likes. So I'm going to follow up what Trine Skei Grande said about crossroads, because it's perfectly obvious that the people in a branch have taken advantage of the new promise to keep their crossroads, which is impossible to compete with the public school. Will the Prime Minister now confirm that those who have started and established crossroads can expect their children to move forward with the new law proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e387	First, I would like to thank Mr Lilletun for his question. So I want to say that in this case, when it comes to not opening, I mean myself that it's never been said, but it doesn't matter. The crucial thing is that at least there has never been any intention of expressing our views in the cash support debate. Point two: What I have tried to convey in several answers here is that we should allow schools that have an alternative religious and/or educational basis. It's per. definition of the alternative to public school. It could also be that these schools stand for values that not everyone in the government shares, but as far as I'm familiar with the government, it's at least diversely composed, with different values and different positions, and it's actually something that I think enriches the government, that people have different backgrounds of experience and different values. So we're going to have diversity, but we're not going to have privatisation, we're not going to have increased social inequality. That's why we have to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e394	Let's move on to the next main question. The President will ask those who have questions, to stand on the floor until the answer is given, as it is difficult enough to be Prime Minister if you do not want to speak to an empty speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e399	It's nice to hear about the diversity of the Government. In any case, I am sure that diversity will not be greater than that the Prime Minister will be able to hold everyone on the taboos and not have anyone in the lawn in front of the government offices at all times. My main question is about an area in which I am absolutely sure that we need to get collective solutions, and that concerns the demanding tasks of the Prime Minister leading the Government in the WTO negotiations. We have all followed up on what is now happening in Geneva, and how important it is for Norway to safeguard the breadth of its interests and at the same time contribute to the better organisation of the world society in this area. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has one great advantage, and it is that in this area he has an opposition that meant the same in position as it now believes in opposition. This means that he has his back free when he goes forward to take care of Norwegian interests. It is, in my opinion, a position that the Prime Minister must use to produce good results, and it also provides an opportunity to produce the full breadth of what is Norwegian interest. It has been so that the Norwegian WTO debate, which I have had the pleasure of standing in the middle of the last few years, has been more marked by being a kind of domestic debate on whether to take small or big steps in agricultural policy ahead than by getting what it really is about, how to better organise the world economy and world trade. I encourage the Prime Minister to use this opportunity to get this width out. It is my opinion that there is considerable room for action and capacity in Norwegian agricultural policy, far beyond what has emerged, to be able to carry major changes without having to face threats of closure and liquidation. Now we're at the hour of truth. In the last few days, the government has announced the possibility of saying no – it's there, that's the whole point. But the danger of saying it in a situation where it may not be possible is that Norway can sit with a dangerous black man in a ricksman's club. Does the Prime Minister see that danger, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e410	First, I would like to thank the President for asking the representatives to stand in place until I have finished holding the post. That being said, I want to say that when the representatives go away, I see the president and talk to him, and that's not a bad alternative. [[Laughter]] I would then like to say to both the representative and the President that the WTO negotiations are important to the Government, and we have underlined both in the Government Declaration and in the Soria Moria Declaration that we should take care of what we call the overall Norwegian interests. It is both about ensuring a living Norwegian agriculture, about securing Norwegian export interests, and especially about securing markets for fisheries and the Norwegian seafood industry. At the same time, I fully agree with the representative Sponheim that this is basically about creating rules of the game for international trade. For Norway, which has a very open economy, it is important, whether it is about combating Norwegian salmon in Europe or in the United States, or about avoiding measures against the Norwegian metal industry, about dumping and other things. We are served with clear, open rules for international trade. Now we follow up the Norwegian negotiating positions. We stress that Norway has special interests in agriculture. At the same time, I agree that either the agreement becomes that way or that way, Norwegian agriculture has a great potential in value creation, in food programmes, in processing and in finding niche products. That work has several governments worked on, and we want to go on with it. We must be prepared for conversions into Norwegian agriculture unemployed, and then it is important that we contribute to increased value creation in Norwegian agriculture. We do not know today if it will be agreed. However, although it would not be agreed, it is important that we continue to strengthen the competitiveness and value creation potential of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e423	I welcome that and agree with that answer. I also think it's important to have an ambition that it has to be an agreement. If Hong Kong represents a stopover, as the Foreign Minister has said, it must be a real stopover that at some point gets a final landing, because it needs the whole world community. I think it is important to say that the most important and most crucial thing – and we must be able to say so in a Norwegian parliament too – is that we have a solution that allows the poorest countries, not least African countries, to have better access to selling almost the only thing they can produce today. But then there's a danger that we'll get so busy and so incisive in Norway that we'll say that we're using up the cancers to rub on the bill to the extent that we leave the restaurant without having eaten. It'll be very bad. I will make a strong call to the Prime Minister now to use the last hour – the hour of truth, as it has been called – to bring the full breadth of Norwegian interests forward and be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The Prime Minister has a genuine opportunity to say something nice about fish without being accused of troubling agriculture. Because it is possible to take care of both interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e431	I agree with the representative of Sponheim that it is possible to take care of both interests. That is the starting point for the Norwegian negotiating positions. That's the starting point for the Soria Moria statement. At the same time, the greatest attention and the greatest problems are linked to agricultural products, because there are major changes to be made, at least in relation to the size of customs reductions. Many countries – not just Norway – have very strong interests and strong opinions about agricultural products, both developing countries that want to increase access and some countries that are thus holding back increased market access. We are now working all we can to reach a balanced agreement, an agreement that takes care of the overall Norwegian interests, taking into account that Norway is a special country in terms of agricultural production assumptions, but where we are also preparing for conversion into Norwegian agriculture anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e440	There will be four follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e443	We agree with the representative Lars Sponheim on the importance of finding out that WTO negotiations are far more important than Norwegian agriculture alone. If you follow in the Norwegian debate, you would think that the entire world trade stood and fell with Norwegian agriculture. The Government has a significant responsibility to inform the Norwegian public about the offensive interests that Norway should have in international negotiations as such. Norwegian agriculture has for a number of years been characterised by a lack of migration. That's why we've come into the situation we're in now, and it's gone up for the actors in agriculture that now the big changes are coming. And they'll come regardless of whether we get an agreement now. An agreement will come later. My question is: How will the Government now ensure that Norwegian agriculture receives a necessary conversion, so that we can secure Norwegian agriculture in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e452	Whether it has been or has not been a conversion into Norwegian agriculture is probably a little dependent on what you compare with. I think many people in Norwegian agriculture have experienced extensive changes. I remember that when I myself was in government with Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Øyågen, important parts of Norwegian agricultural policy were changed, and we have had a quite significant reduction in the number of annual works in Norwegian agriculture. So many people in agriculture feel that there have been major changes, even though they have not been close to being as big as the Progress Party must have wanted. The second is that the transitions should continue – that is the consensus, it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration – in the sense that we need to make Norwegian agriculture more competitive. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen started a programme of value creation as Minister of Agriculture. This government has had its programmes for increasing value creation and processing in the agricultural sector. It has to go on. We shall contribute to that. I believe that it is an advantage that the Center Party sits in government, because they have firsthand knowledge of the value creation of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e459	There can be no doubt that we are going to face very difficult elections in the days and weeks to come. It is therefore very gratifying that the Government is now following the line that the previous government did. It's not surprising, because we had the Workers' Party's support at the time. Now it is the government that has our support and is to be congratulated. That's why it's also good to see how the opposition we've had earlier this year towards this line, has been effectively parked over the last couple of weeks. That's very good. Now there is a danger that agriculture will take all the capacity in the negotiations. That means that the areas where we want to achieve something and have offensive interests, it's fish, it's services, it's rules, it can fall backwards, and we don't get the necessary progress in these areas so that we get a balanced result. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is it not time for initiatives to be taken from the Norwegian side, too, to bring these sectors more clearly into the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e466	Firstly, I agree with the representative Petersen that it is good that there is a broad consensus on the Norwegian negotiating positions. It is a strength in all international negotiations that there is broad political support and support for the construction of the country of origin Norway. Secondly, we have underlined and also worked on what is called offensive positions, i.e. our interests related to fishing, and not least services that include, among other things. the entire shipping sector, which is large, important industries for Norway. Just when and how we are going to take what initiatives, I believe it is important that we keep in close contact with the Storting about. We have had a presentation of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, and we are going to have as close and close contact with the Storting as possible in the remaining days and weeks, so that everything we do, including the offensive positions, is best anchored in the Storting, either in open meetings or in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e473	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e476	I have noticed with interest that the Central Party is now fully in line with what has always been a Norwegian attitude in the WTO negotiations. Negotiations are in a decisive phase, and the outcome may have major consequences for Norwegian farmers. The Christian People's Party will meet this offensively, and we will help secure future for Norwegian agriculture. It is a demanding, but absolutely necessary balance that WTO negotiations both give developing countries better conditions in world trade and at the same time ensure that we have the possibility of living agriculture throughout the country. We have found that the central party representative Lundtägen claimed that state aid should not be reduced and that agriculture should be compensated for krona. My question then is: can the Prime Minister's attitude to the WTO negotiations be summed up in the appointment of Lundtigen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e483	The government has explained its views in the Soria Moria Declaration. We have proposed to strengthen Norwegian agriculture through conversion, increased value creation and increased processing. We have not formulated ourselves as Mr Lundtigen has put it, but we are prepared that the changes that must come into agriculture must also be supported by a redeployment of agricultural aid. The whole point of the WTO agreement – if it becomes an agreement – is to reduce customs protection and, on the one hand, to make clear demands on the amount of internal support, or the amount of agricultural support, as it is called, and its composition. But within the terms of the agreement, we will be prepared to continue to support Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e488	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e491	The outgoing government had full support in Stortingen to its positions in WTO negotiations. Just as fully, the leader of the Central Party said shortly before the election that these positions represented a last dramatic greeting to Building Norway from the Left and Christian People's Party. The new government has followed up the positions of the previous government, and in addition it has opened up to go much further. Can the Prime Minister confirm that there is nothing in today's government's WTO positions that is less dramatic towards Building Norway than what the outgoing government's positions represented?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e499	I can only confirm the positions we have, and these are the positions we have explained to the Stortinget, which are positions that seek to take care of Norway's overall interests. It concerns both our interests in fisheries, the services sector in shipping and other offensive interests, and the positions we have in relation to agriculture, in terms of both customs and agricultural support, so-called internal support. That's our positions. They have broad support in Stortinget. Our challenge is to get the most out of them in the WTO negotiations, and we know that in the days to come, there will be very important and demanding decisions to make. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture have done a very solid job and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e504	Let's go to the last main question. To date, the President has treated all opposition parties in the same way, but this time will limit follow-up questions to one follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e509	The red-green parties went into the election campaign and held a high tab in relation to the municipal sector. There was more to health, more to school, more to care for the elderly – yes, the red-greens were even going to fill up the basins in all the municipalities around. The way this was going to happen was that the red-greens were going to spread a certain number of billions around 433 municipalities, regardless of the situation in the individual municipality, whether it was a municipality with billions of books, or whether it was a municipality that had a little less advice. The Prime Minister replied to a previous question today that the Government continues to have great faith in strengthening Community solutions by spreading even more billions in the municipal sector. My question is now: can the Prime Minister continue, per the current date, guarantee that the billions that may come to the municipal sector in the budget tomorrow will strengthen the care of the elderly and the school, and that the municipalities will fill up the basins that the red-greens were so busy in the election campaign? Will there now be a guarantee from the Prime Minister that the basins will be filled and that Community solutions will be strengthened, by the budget coming tomorrow, in all the 433 municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e516	I was asked similar questions in the election campaign, whether I would guarantee that we were in charge of the care of the elderly and the kindergartens and water in all the pools. I was asked that in the election campaign, and I said no. It would be strange if I were to say something else after the election. I say the same thing after the election that I said before the election. I'm doing that because what we're doing is making sure that the course, the direction, is going to be different. This is primarily because we do not spend billions of dollars on tax bills, but use them to strengthen Community solutions. This does not mean that we are going to solve all the problems, remove all the queues and fill up all the basins, but it means that the municipalities, which are responsible for the care of the elderly, who are responsible for the schools and for many municipal swimming pools, will have more opportunities and will get further along that path. What I'm sure is that when the municipalities get more income, they will spend it on the most demanding tasks. Most municipalities feel that the most demanding tasks are such as lack of care for the elderly, lack of care in schools, among other things. school buildings and school facilities as swimming pools. But we have not guaranteed in the election campaign that all the problems will be solved, nor will we subsequently guarantee that all the problems will be solved. We guarantee that the course will be different, that the direction will be different, but not that all problems will be solved. I would also like to stress that this is free income, because the needs will vary in different municipalities. Somewhere it may be right to spend money on care for the elderly, someplace else in school, some third place in the care of the drug, or some other way. The crucial thing is that we believe that you know best how to use the money locally. Then I would also like to stress that there may be municipalities where it is right to spend the money on reducing the deficit or debt. It will also strengthen local government’s economy and enable them to finance care and schooling over time. The basic political choice is money for the community or tax relief. There we are very clear, and then the money will be used differently in different places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e525	What I hear now is that the Prime Minister claims that there is going to be a new course, but this government is putting up exactly the same funding method as the outgoing government, the government that was before it, and all the governments we've had in the last 15-20 years – that the money is to be delivered uncritically through framework transfers and free revenues to the municipalities. I record that in Dagbladet today it says that the municipalities will at least get a certain number of billion kroner. It might be a leak, but it's expected that there might be $6 billion for the municipalities. At the same time, I record that in the VG on 7 November, Labour Party rapporteur Ole Haabeth says: «There will be no be any bet in the care of the elderly or in school». Furthermore, it is said from a number of other municipalities, both Bergen, Fredrikstad, Sandnes and Larvik, that they promise no money for school or care for the elderly. So the vast majority of municipalities will give a completely different priority to the new funds. Will the Prime Minister continue to hold to the promise that care for the elderly and the school should be given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e532	Parental care and school will be given priority because it is the main tasks of the municipalities. When the municipalities get more money, they'll spend it on their main tasks. I remember the list from November 7 that was mentioned. There were some municipalities that said that getting more money doesn't necessarily mean that we can do more, but we can't stop. It will vary from municipality to municipality. Sometimes the economic situation is so that the extra money makes them add up. In other places, they make extra money that at least they don't cut down. Both parts mean increased investment in relation to what is the case with the budget proposed by the previous government. I think that even if in some municipalities it will be that part of this money is spent on reducing deficits, it is actually also a contribution to making municipalities better able to finance care for the elderly and school in the future. Then the representative says that there is no change in course, because the funding system is the same. I think for the elderly it's not crucial what kind of funding system we have, but that there's money in the system, and we provide more money in the system, so that it gets better for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e543	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e546	After listening to the small exchange of words, I must say that I think there are more shades in the Prime Minister's view of local self-government than there is in the representative Sandberg's lack of faith in local self-government. But the same thing I can't say about the municipal minister, who in the World Times yesterday went out and threatened municipalities, among other things. the second largest municipality in the country, Bergen, which says that for their part the most appropriate thing will be to prioritize the repayment of debt rather than new bets. The welfare offer in the municipality is good. It could probably be better, but just paying off old debt is the most important thing there. Can the Prime Minister now confirm that he agrees more with the chairman of the Bergen City Council than with the municipal minister Åslaug Haga?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e553	The municipal minister and the entire government have stressed that this should be free income, and that is precisely because the needs of the different municipalities will vary. In some places there are shortages in school that are the most acute. In other places, there is a lack of care for the elderly, and in other places it may be right to use something to reduce the burden of debt, or a combination. I met the rapporteur in Asker the other day, and he explained to me that there will be some money to strengthen school, some money to strengthen care for the elderly and some money to reduce the debt, that is. not draining funds, but thus strengthening local authority's equity. I just want to stress that I think it'll be the picture in a lot of municipalities. I agree with the representative Foss that precisely because Norway is a diverse country and the needs are different, it is right that these are free revenues. And if someone's been busy with it, it's the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e558	Case No. 1, the oral question procedure, is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e570	Norwegian men and women in uniform have been working in the peace service for the UN, NATO and the world community for over 50 years. Like other countries, we are making an effort to ensure that other countries and peoples have peace, hope and development. The broad lines of this policy have been widely agreed here in the Grand Duchy. We can choose to view this as an international policy of solidarity and redistribution: we, who are the countries of opportunity – we who have the most – help to open up opportunities for those who have the least. There will be more to everyone if more people believe in the future. There will be development and hope when people and society experience that investing in people pays off. Norwegian military personnel enjoy great international respect. Our men and women are highly educated, well trained, well equipped and known for acting wisely in the field. Together with what we do with civil instruments, and in interaction with international organisations and our own non-governmental organisations, they are some of our most important foreign policy instruments. Let me nevertheless underline: military efforts will never in themselves be sufficient to resolve the kind of conflicts we see, among other things. in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is improvement in living conditions, improved humanitarian situation and prospects for work and development that determines whether people in Afghanistan and Iraq can have faith in their own future. The main task of military personnel is to facilitate civil action. In this way, military forces can contribute to long-term and stable solutions for building a functioning civil society. The impression of the conversations I have had since I took over as Minister for Foreign Affairs is that other countries are aware that Norway's total military and civil contributions to the world community are large and important. Our closest allies know that our efforts are greater than the population of Norway would expect. It is against this background, and on the basis of the Declaration of Accession of 19 October, that we have started to assess what civil and military contributions Norway will make available for various international operations next year. The government emphasises the utmost transparency on these issues. That's the background of my presentation here today. It would be natural to request a broader foreign policy presentation to the Stortinget on a later occasion. In today's review, I will therefore focus directly on the work to ensure a better focus on our disposition of civil and military contributions to international operations. However, it is part of this review to underline the importance of Norwegian military involvement in international operations being enshrined in the UN Charter and having a clear UN mandate. The Government, in its foreign policy, will further emphasise support for a world order based on the United Nations Charter's premise and the crucial premise that the use of military power should be enshrined in international law. Furthermore, it will be the Government's main line that we channel our international efforts through the UN and NATO. And finally, it is important to us that we, as a NATO ally and active UN member, keep our friends and allies closely informed about the background of Norwegian decisions, and that we set up our efforts in such a way as to complement as far as possible the efforts of allies and partners. The government has since taken over, spent time informing and consulting our allies and partners, including NATO and the UN Secretary-General. My summary of these talks is that Norwegian policy is well understood and well anchored, in the UN as well as in NATO and the central Member States. A goal for us has been to focus Norwegian efforts. If our contribution is to make sense, it cannot be spread in too many areas. We are faced with great needs for international efforts in many parts of the world. Therefore, we need to make priorities and balances. We have limited resources and need to concentrate our efforts. It will be clear from my statement that Afghanistan will be the main sphere of action of the Government. So today, I want to focus in particular on how Norway can best contribute to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan, but also Iraq. Let me summarise the main guidelines for our future civil and military contribution to Afghanistan and Iraq contained in the Government Declaration. Firstly, our military efforts in Afghanistan will take place through the NATO-led stabilisation force ISAF. As a consequence, at the next rotation, we will close our participation in the American-led ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation when the term of office of the Force expires in January 2006. Secondly, the mission of the Norwegian staff and training officers in Iraq will be terminated when their duties are completed in mid-December. Norway will take its share of responsibility for supporting the reconstruction of a democratic Iraq, with civil instruments. Thirdly, the Government is concerned that Norway should contribute more strongly to UN operations, especially in Africa. The government wants to restore Norway’s credibility as an important contributor to UN-led peace operations. We want to strengthen the UN's ability to conduct complex operations, because we know that in many cases the UN is well suited to do that job. Let me now go into more detail about Norway's future involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq. Afghanistan continues to face significant challenges. Although the parliamentary elections on 18 September represent an important step in the positive direction, we still see examples of local warlords countering central government. There are also signs that illegal terrorist cell branches are strengthening their position in parts of the country and in border areas. The number of killings and acts of violence is on the rise again. At the same time, we know that drug production has branches for prominent politicians and centrally placed military officers. This is a development that undermines the stability of the country, the political process and the potential for economic reconstruction. Widespread corruption, a weak functioning police force and a weak legal state make dealing with these problems difficult. It is important, in the Government's view, that a global international community assists the Afghan authorities in continuing their efforts to rebuild and stabilise Afghanistan. The next milestone in this work will be an international conference in London in January next year. Here, the further course for international efforts in Afghanistan will be staggered. The UN will play a key role with the EU, NATO and the G8 countries. From the Norwegian side, we will contribute to this work. We will continue our considerable efforts for economic and social development in Afghanistan. But development is not possible without security. Therefore, we will continue to contribute to security and stability in order to facilitate further economic and social development. NATO plays an important role in stabilising Afghanistan. ISAF was established in December 2001 at the request of the UN Security Council and the Afghan Government. NATO has been leading the force since August 2003 and has thus assumed a significant responsibility for the further stability of Afghanistan. This responsibility is shared by allies. This is a big problem. NATO Member State declared in June 2004 that the stabilisation of Afghanistan is the primary priority of the alliance. At the same time, allies have made it clear that this will be a long-term task in which allies and partner countries make an effort together. A total of 35 allies and partner countries participate in the stabilisation of Afghanistan through ISAF. Norway will take its share of responsibility in Afghanistan. We will do this by contributing to the ISAF strength and by contributing to the building of Afghan security and rule of law institutions. We're set to continue our military engagement at at least the same level as today. At the same time, we will be open to adjust the facility to our contributions in line with NATO's priorities. ISAF is now being expanded at provincial level to strengthen the authority of the Afghan central government outside Kabul. Regional stabilisation laws play a central role here. The Stabilisation Act also facilitates security sector reform and assists regional and local authorities in their reconstruction. Our contribution to ISAF today is about 400 people. I would like to remind you that this is a significant contribution. The main weights of these are concentrated in Kabul. In 2006, we will contribute to the conversion of ISAF by bringing together the majority of the Norwegian forces in North Afghanistan. We've already increased our involvement outside Kabul. We did this when, in September of this year, we took over the management of the regional stabilisation team, the so-called PRT, in north-west Afghanistan. As ISAF increases its size and presence in more unstable areas in western and southern Afghanistan, we also see an increasing need to ensure the security of its forces. Air support plays an important role in NATO's strength protection. This is the background to the request given to Norway by NATO to contribute three-four F-16 aeroplanes and the necessary resources to support such a contribution. Aeroplanes shall be in Afghanistan for three months in the spring of 2006. In its 2006 draft budget, the Bondevik Government submitted that Norway should meet the request. The new government is in favour of this request. As I mentioned earlier, the conclusion of the Norwegian contribution to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation will provide additional space to concentrate our efforts on the NATO-led ISAF force. In addition to our military involvement in Afghanistan, the Government is committed to Norway also continuing its broad and long-term civil commitment. Norway’s overall development assistance to Afghanistan is around 300 million this year. kr. It is geared towards three main areas: education, the establishment of public administration and the improvement of the living conditions of the population. In addition, support for humanitarian purposes is provided through Norwegian non-governmental organisations. The government emphasises that we distinguish the mandate of military contributions from the mandate of humanitarian organisations. Humanitarian aid shall aim at helping people in distress. It shall not distinguish between needy and not be included as a soft element in a military strategy to win certain parts of a population. Norway is also actively contributing to the development of the Afghan police and judicial sector. We will continue to pay great attention to this work. All experience suggests that the establishment of a local police and judicial system is essential for the long-term stability and political development of a country. At the same time, developments in Afghanistan are another example of how difficult it can be to achieve a comprehensive reform on the police and justice side. From the Norwegian side, we have therefore given special attention to strengthening the rule of law and the rule of law. Today, we are contributing up to ten people on the police side in Afghanistan. The main focus is on training in human rights, administration and management as well as police women. Integrating women into the police is particularly challenging given the traditional position of women in Afghan society. In addition, we contribute with Norwegian lawyers from the so-called power well that strengthens the work of the Afghan authorities in the fight against drugs. The Norwegian contribution is valued by the Afghan authorities and by our international partners. We want to continue and, if possible, strengthen our efforts to reform the police and justice sector in 2006. The situation in Iraq is still serious. The safety situation is unstable. Violent attacks targeting Iraqi authorities and foreign presence continue with unreserved force. These attacks primarily affect the civilian population and prevent ordinary people from starting a normal life. At the same time, we must be glad that the referendum on the new constitution went better than expected on 15 October. The vote was conducted in a good and tidy manner – by the Iraqis themselves, with good support from the UN. The timetable laid down in UN Security Council Resolution 1546 is thus still being respected. However, there is concern that many Sunni arabes did not support the Constitution. The lack of support is due to the fear that the federal state model now chosen will reduce their influence and restrict access to energy and water resources. It will now be important for the Sunni Arabs to see the merit of engaging in the further political process towards the elections to the new National Assembly in December. The consensus between the three groups of people that the Constitution could be revised by the new National Assembly may contribute to increased sunni-arabic interest in the elections. Norway supports the political process in Iraq, both through the UN and in other ways. The whole of the international community has a responsibility to ensure that the Iraqi people live in a safe country with a good governance, and where they themselves are involved in determining further development. At the same time, the difficult security situation in Iraq means that there will still be a need for substantial assistance from the outside world. The international community must address both security and reconstruction issues. Norway is ready to take part in this responsibility. We will therefore continue to contribute both to increased security and to the reconstruction of Iraq. But we want to change the device of the Norwegian contribution. It is worth remembering that Norway is the only NATO country that opposed the invasion of Iraq and still chose to contribute to the stabilisation. The Government’s decision means that the mission of the Norwegian Staff and Training Officers will be completed by mid-December. We emphasize that the mission ends in a clean and open manner and in agreement with our allies. The Government attaches great importance to continuing to contribute to building a security sector in Iraq based on democratic principles and respect for human rights. We also take our share of responsibility as a member of NATO. The Government will therefore continue to contribute to the Allied efforts for the training of Iraqi security forces. Eight allies — Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Luxembourg, Slovenia and Spain — do not contribute to training officers in Iraq but focus, as Norway will now do, on training related to the security sector outside the country. We will continue to facilitate training at the NATO training centre at Jåttå. In the case of Norwegian military personnel serving in the NATO command structure, there will be no changes. Such participation follows as a clear consequence of our NATO membership. As in Afghanistan, the Government attaches crucial importance to supporting the establishment of a democratic system based on the rule of law in Iraq. The UN must have a central role here. Only the United Nations, with the necessary weight and legitimacy, can coordinate international efforts. The government will therefore look at how we can more fully support the work of the United Nations in Iraq. We will also continue the training of Iraqi police officers. A competent civil police force based on recognised democratic principles is essential for Iraq's further development. The two courses we have conducted so far for Iraqi police officers in Norway have been well received. A third course takes place in a week. The participants are made familiar with the work of the police in a democratic society. As in Afghanistan, the main focus is on management and administration, human rights and women in the police. This training will continue in 2006. Norwegian support for training programmes in the region is something that will also be assessed in such a context. But we must not forget that the population has a number of civil needs that we should help to meet. It concerns humanitarian contributions, but also contributions that contribute to long-term stability. Access to clean water, satisfactory sanitary conditions, schooling for children and health services are at the top of the wish list for the smooth Iraq. The UN's ability to work in this field needs to be strengthened. Norway’s total assistance to Iraq for the period 2003-2006 amounts to 540 million. Norwegian Krone. A share of this assistance has been channelled through the Multilateral Multi-Annual Multi-Annual Multi-Annual Fund for the Reconstruction of Iraq, managed by the United Nations and the World Bank. At the same time, we will continue to provide humanitarian support, as we did before the elections in January, and channel assistance through the UN and Norwegian non-governmental organisations, such as Norwegian People's Aid, the Church's Emergency Aid, Red Barna, Red Cross and Tromsø Mineskadezentrum. In the longer term, we must contribute to Iraq's self-sufficiency. It is therefore important to rust up the Iraqi petroleum industry. Norway has special conditions in which to contribute. We will strengthen our cooperation with Iraqi authorities in the petroleum sector, focusing on the transfer of Norwegian experience and knowledge, technology and administrative competence. In Pakistan, three million people are at risk of dying of hunger and cold. From the Norwegian side, we have so far set up with 200 million. aid and encouraged other countries to comply with their commitments to help Pakistan. The earthquake has again raised the issue of how military organisations can best help to address humanitarian disasters. Even after the flood disaster in Asia, we saw some allies deploying military resources to relieve human distress. And now in Pakistan we see a huge need for planes and helicopters that can transport emergency aid to the victims of the disaster. From the Norwegian side, we will, as I was in possession, uphold the clear rule of civil-military cooperation, that humanitarian work should preferably be carried out by civilians and coordinated by the UN. But military actors can also make important contributions. In Pakistan, we have a situation where the NATO countries on the other side of the border, in Afghanistan, have large military resources that can be deployed. NATO also has significant capacity and competence to carry out and organise long-distance transport. In such a situation, we need to look at how NATO can support the UN-led aid. The UN has requested NATO to contribute air transport to the disaster area precisely because this is an area in which NATO has specific competence and experience. This request has been met by Norway and a number of allies. The government has granted 10 million. kr to such transport organised by NATO. This is part of our total assistance to Pakistan in connection with the earthquake. As my statement shows, the Government is committed to Norway continuing to support the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan and Iraq. I believe that there is a broad consensus on that objective in this room. We will take our share of responsibility by being an active contributor to international conflict resolution by remaining a strong supporter of the UN and by continuing to be a credible ally in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e694	Participation in military operations abroad is an integral and important part of Norwegian security and defence policy. Through our commitment, we contribute to peace and demonstrate solidarity with the international community. Our participation outside strengthens international security and thus Norwegian security. At the same time, it is important that Norway takes part in the international community’s obligations to carry out peace operations. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, the Government attaches great importance to the fact that Norwegian participation in military operations abroad has a clear UN mandate. It is a crucial condition for the use of military power that it should be anchored in international law. In 2006 we will maintain at least the same extent as today for Norwegian military participation outside. It is an important objective of the Government to increase our efforts in relation to the UN, also in the military. Today, Norway is contributing, together with less than 50 people, to UN-led operations. Our clear ambition is to increase this number. Work is already under way to identify the needs of the United Nations, and what we may be able to contribute in this way. We have started a dialogue with the UN on how Norway can contribute to strengthening the UN's work on peace operations. Among other things, we see: on the possibility of Nordic cooperation. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his statement, the Government will in a short time come back with a broader presentation which will also include increased Norwegian involvement in the UN. NATO's stabilisation operation in Afghanistan, ISAF, which has a clear UN mandate, remains our main field of action. The Norwegian contribution to ISAF will now be concentrated in North Afghanistan. A regional command will be established in the north in the spring of 2006 where Germany has a leadership responsibility. Under German leadership, we will also work closely with forces from Finland, Iceland, Sweden and the Netherlands. From the Norwegian side we will contribute with a quick-release strength of approx. 180 persons, a sanitary element, a transport control element, supply and logistics personnel to the forward supply base of Mazar-e Sharif and various centrally located staff stations. At the same time, we will continue to participate with a smaller number of staff officers at the ISAF headquarters in Kabul. Norway took over the management of the Provincial Reconstruction Team, known as PRT, which is the regional stabilisation team in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan, on 1 September of this year, where Finland and Iceland also participate. The PRT concept is central to ISAF and has proved to be an effective instrument to support local authorities and thereby extend the authority of the central authority in the provinces. The PRT concept consists of a military and a civil part. Defence contributes to the military section, which aims to contribute to a positive development in the security sector in the provinces. It is the civil part that provides assistance and development. The PRT in Meymaneh has a number of military units patrolling the entire province. In this way, ISAF becomes aware of safety challenges and developments in different areas, including information that may be relevant for any assistance projects. This activity makes the presence of both the Afghan central government and the international community visible in the provinces. The civil part of the stabilisation team in Meymaneh consists of an aid policy adviser and a police adviser. This gives us a very good starting point for identifying aid-related needs in the area to which it should be appropriate to channel resources from Norway. At the same time, it is important to show independence in the relationship between the activities of military forces and humanitarian aid organisations. The government will send three-four F-16 aircraft to Afghanistan for a three-month period in spring 2006. The aeroplanes will be included in a Dutch managed department. This is a response to NATO’s request for increased need for air support as a result of ISAF’s expansion to more and more provinces. The purpose is to ensure that ISAF forces access to fighter aircraft capable of demonstrating presence and, if necessary, providing support from the air if critical ground situations arise. In some situations, ISAF is dependent on flight support to ensure the safety of its personnel. Until last winter, ISAF did not dispose of its own fighter aircraft. Until then, it was dependent on support from the American-led ‘Enduring Freedom’, OEF. The extension of ISAF to more and more provinces increases the security requirements of the forces. This applies in particular to southward enlargement. Aeroplanes under the ISAF command could be asked to assist ground personnel from the OEF in emergency situations. This may be the case in very special cases where personnel from the OEF are under attack or otherwise in a crisis situation. This scheme is based on a general agreement of 2003 on mutual assistance between ISAF and the OEC. Practices are established when there is more than one military operation in an area, that they regulate the relationship between them in an agreement. The commander-in-command of the two operations will be able to request assistance from each other. Any support from ISAF to the OEF will be based on the ISAF exposure rules. It is underlined that aeroplanes under the ISAF command shall have no offensive role in relation to operations under the OEF. As a result of the OEF having most of the resources, the ISAF has so far used most of the above-mentioned agreement. By providing ISAF with an independent F-16 capacity, the need for OEF support will be reduced. The Norwegian contribution will form part of the F-16 cooperation between several European countries. Aeroplanes will be assigned to ISAF and stationed in Kabul by command. A Norwegian Liaison Officer will be seconded to the ISAF Headquarters to care for Norwegian interests in connection with the participation of F-16 in the operation. From the Norwegian side, we will constantly ensure that the operation is carried out in accordance with the mandate of ISAF and the Norwegian obligations under international law. NATO’s ability to contribute to flight support is essential to ensure the safety of ground personnel and thereby the capacity of ISAF to perform its mission. The situation in Afghanistan is characterised by demanding safety challenges, difficult topographical and climatic conditions and a lack of infrastructure. It is very important that the forces sent to Afghanistan are well trained and equipped to carry out their tasks under the difficult conditions of the country. In NATO, a revision of the operational plan is now being undertaken to implement the extension of NATO’s involvement to the provinces of the south and east of the country. Today ISAF is established in the north and west. The alliance faces further challenges, inter alia: to resistance activity from rebel movements and from various criminal groups to ethnic contradictions and to drug production. As ISAF expands southwards and eastwards, the security situation will be more difficult and the NATO force will be able to face threats from the Taliban and residual elements from Al Qaida. There is a significant increase in the number of NATO forces in ISAF. We must therefore expect increased demands on nations to release forces. Experience has shown that it is difficult to meet ISAF's needs for forces. The south and eastward enlargement of ISAF should not be confused with the ongoing debate in NATO on a possible future merger of ISAF and OEF. The Norwegian exposure to the OEC ends during January 2006, in accordance with the statement by Soria Moria. As mentioned, we will concentrate our future efforts in Afghanistan on ISAF. The withdrawal of Norwegian staff from the multinational stabilisation force in Iraq has already begun and will end by mid-December. Furthermore, in line with the Government Declaration, the Norwegian involvement in the NATO training mission in Iraq will be phased out. Staff will be pulled out in connection with the next rotation cycle in NATO, which takes place in December. As a result, all directly sent Norwegian officers will have left Iraq by mid-December. As stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, no national restrictions will be imposed on Norwegian officers serving in NATO's command structure with regard to possible missions in Iraq. It is important, both for NATO's credibility and operational capability, that NATO can freely dispose of its personnel in its own military staff to perform its tasks. Training of Iraqi officers on Jåttå under the direction of NATO is continued. The additional costs of the abovementioned national contribution are covered in the framework of the funds allocated to the 2006 Defence Budget. 1792 Norwegian forces abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e738	The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e754	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by Finn Martin Vallersnes. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and Martin Engeset, respectively, to the Minister for Food and Trade, are moved and answered in response to question 4. Question 21, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister of Justice, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e773	It's going to be a transition to the close things, but I'm assuming that the Minister of State has no objection. ‘Under the Soria Moria Declaration, the City and Country Chapter will state: ‘The Government will implement measures for areas of major cities facing specific challenges, such as the Groruddalen in Oslo.’ Will the Government promote a separate case dealing with bets in the Groruddalen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e782	Government will pursue offensive policies for our cities to develop the advantages, qualities and opportunities of cities. Some areas have specific environmental and social challenges, and the Government will implement measures to improve the situation in such areas. The Groruddalen is an area of great variety and many qualities, but the area also has a number of challenges. Parts of the valley have been burdened with environmental problems such as pollution, little organisation for soft road users and a lot of traffic. The Grorud valley is multicultural, which is a resource, but which may also require a separate political approach. Some areas have also experienced negative living conditions, and this can be further reinforced by unilateral housing, lack of meeting places, cultural and service provision. I still have to make it clear that this applies in close proximity to all parts of the valley. It is also important to point out that other areas too have challenges, and that the Grorud Valley is not in a particular class with greater challenges than other areas in all fields. The government will further explore how to invest in the Grorud Valley and other areas with specific challenges. We wish, among other things: to continue the experience of the Oslo Action Programme for the Middle East and the good cooperation as one that has had with the Municipality of Oslo. The government will present a separate capital message. We will come back with a detailed description of how this case should be followed up in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e789	Thank you for your answer! I agree with the Council of State that not all areas of the Groruddalen have specific challenges. There are also many good residential areas in Groruddalen. However, as the Council of State was also concerned, parts of the valley have specific challenges. So the Council of State within the inner East bet, which is now moving towards its conclusion, was a ten-year cooperation between the state and the municipality. Can I understand the Council of State that she sees that there will be a follow-up to ten-year cooperation, but now with emphasis on the Groruddalen, possibly other areas in Oslo City that are facing similar challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e798	The understanding that Mr Syversen has has is quite correct. We are now approaching the end of the Oslo inner East Action Programme – a programme that we see as very successful. I'm not saying that there won't be any challenges in that part of the city in the future, but we see it as natural that we are now drawing on the experiences we've had in the inner east of Oslo, and on the action programme for the inner east of Oslo, and trying to apply some of the experience and knowledge we have, including on the Groruddalen. There's not necessarily any automatic transmission here, but we have some experience that we think is applicable in a certain sense. That's why we want to take initiatives towards the Municipality of Oslo, so that we can get into the good dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo about the Groruddalen, which I experience has been having over these years in the Middle East of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e805	Thank you for your answer! Then I understand the answer this way, and I just want to confirm that the details of how this bet is to be made will be presented in a separate capital message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e812	That is a correct understanding. We may want to get back to Stortinget with something before that, but I am determined that the capital message will come as soon as possible. At least we will have the opportunity to discuss this in the Capital Message. There has already been a good deal of thinking about how to approach the challenges in the Grorud Valley. It has, among other things, the Minister for Transport has been involved. So there is already some thought work there. We will build on it, but expand with a more comprehensive program than that, among other things. The Minister for Transport saw itself, which was very focused on the field of transport policy. So we go into a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo and hope to get a wide program, and we come back to Stortinget late in the Capital Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e823	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘At the request of the parliamentary leaders of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, the conclusion of the Agreement on the evaluation of the present county council was cancelled just before the Government change. Will the State Council re-examine this work and carry out the planned evaluation of the county?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e832	Today's county is under pressure, and the debate on a future regional level has been going on for a very long time. A number of investigations have been carried out over the last few years in which the theme has been administrative structure and the division of responsibilities and tasks between levels of government. I can mention the Task Distribution Committee, the Power Selection, the District Commission and not least the work that has been done within the framework of the KS, and the investigations that are there. All these samples have been in agreement in their conclusion, namely that we need a strongly elected middle level in the public administration system. The government is therefore of the opinion that we have sufficient basis to decide that there should be three elected levels in Norway, and in the Soria Moria Declaration we clearly defined that the Government wants there to be three levels of government. The government therefore believes that it is wasted with resources to carry out a broad and research-based evaluation of today’s county. Instead, it is high time to take action and take the decisions necessary to implement regional reform. In the future, there will probably be a heated debate on, among other things. future regional breakdown. This can neither prevent nor prevent politicians from taking responsibility for the rapid adoption of decisions on the issue of future regions. In other words, the government will give priority to rapid but sound progress in regional reform. In connection with the forthcoming regional reform notification work, I will assess whether it may be relevant in some individual areas to acquire additional knowledge, and I do not exclude that there may be a need we experience lying there. So I don't want to rule out that some of the specific issues that were also outlined in the established competition basis for the evaluation of today's county council can be further elucidated by external investigations. However, we do not see the need for a broad evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e843	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am well aware of what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on three levels of government. I still think it's amazing, and I ask myself questions about some of the things that are being expressed on the part of the municipal minister. So we're not going to be able to take the debate on two or three levels. Firstly, government parties with open eyes choose to refrain from gaining more accurate knowledge of how today's county council is doing its tasks, because that is what the mandate was, to look at how the three levels today are doing their tasks. Secondly, I find it strange that the municipal minister says stop and thinks that you have enough knowledge. But one of them came up with tenders for more qualified witnesses, among other things. on the legitimacy of the county municipality. Thirdly, it is clear from the mandate that the three levels should be taken into account. Is it the case that the Minister of State chooses to close his eyes of fear of any negative results of an evaluation? Could it be possible that an open discussion about something as important as the number of levels of government is not dared?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e858	The President is asking both questions and answers, especially questions, to follow the clock on the right of the speaker's chair. When the time is 00:00, the time for speaking is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e861	The question of how many levels of government we are going to have in Norway has been discussed for a very long time. There is no doubt that there is disagreement between the parties as to whether we should have two or three levels of government. In the case of the three parties that are now in government, we are not in doubt about what it is wise to have of levels of government. We believe that we should have three levels of government. We believe that this is very well documented in all the investigation work that has been carried out in recent years. The Task Distribution Committee, the Power Selection, the District Commission, the KS – all of this underpins the wisdom of having three levels of administration, and therefore we take it as a starting point. I don't think we're going to get anything anymore in these discussions. Now is the time for action, and we want to turn this action into a practical policy, based on three levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e870	All at the beginning of the previous ageing period, it was clear that an evaluation of the county municipality was to be carried out. The process that has been carried out so far has a clear basis in a majority on the Stortinget. In addition, many companies have devoted considerable resources to the preparation of this evaluation. Is not the Minister of State afraid of undermining both the confidence in democracy and respect for the work of others, when one chooses to ignore both decisions and the start of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e877	The government will build on knowledge what may be the final outcome in terms of governance, including at regional level, and we believe that we already have a good level of knowledge today to believe that it is wise to have three levels of government. Then I have said that I do not rule out that we can look at some aspects of the activities of the county councils, but the broad review that one was suggested in this investigation work, we do not think it is a basis for that. Rather, we believe that launching the wide-ranging investigation work will be a waste of public resources. If there's something we don't want, it's that we're going to waste public money on something that's basically unnecessary, and that's partly already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e884	We're going to go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e891	This question, from the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e894	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Recently, the media have made allegations of unfortunate practices relating to the issue of emergency passports and that police officers have passed them on to criminal environments. Can the Council of State explain the extent of the issue of emergency passports and the development of practices in recent years, and what action will be taken by the Council of State to ensure that such passports do not come into the hands of criminals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e903	Let me first say that I cannot comment further on the underlying issue to which the question refers, as investigation is now ongoing. With regard to the scope of emergency passports, approximately 40000 emergency passports are issued per. years. The introduction of machine processable passports from 2004 with longer production time than before has led to an increase in passengers meeting late in the passport office compared to the production time. This has increased the issue of emergency passports. Emergency passports are still issued by hand on an unfilled form, so-called passport. The verification that the emergency passport is not issued to the wrong person or that the forms are not held by the unauthorised person is held by the passport authorities, i.e. police stations of the country and Norwegian foreign stations. In some cases, emergency passports are also issued by Norwegian honorary consul or another Nordic country foreign station where Norway is not represented. All of these authorities have a stock of passport forms. Checks are currently carried out on completed passport forms and are ensured against, among other things. thieving. The verification of the delivery of the emergency passport to the right person is the administrative control of the issuing authorities, i.e.: police stations or foreign stations. The current issue of ordinary passports involves a comprehensive process involving more persons than before. This involves a greater degree of control and procedures in the production process will prevent passports from being issued to the wrong person. Any introduction of an emergency passport with machine-readable text and biometry could underpin a safer management of emergency passports. Emergency passports with machine-readable text and biometrics are already in production in Sweden. The Ministry of Justice will ensure that, in the future, there will also be sound procedures for the storage and issue of emergency passports. The Ministry of Justice will contact the Police Directorate to identify the need for a review of the control procedures for the storage of unfilled forms and for the issue of emergency passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e923	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and understand the reservations. Without anticipating any of the things we've seen coming to the surface, whether it's creative waterworks, pardons or now passports, it's probably been a recognition among several that Norway is not a virgin kardemma-land, to say it like that. Without prejudice to the fact that the issue today is outside the remit of the Council of State and that this specific matter is under investigation, I will ask a question, in the light of what the Council of State dealt with in relation to what has been introduced in Sweden. Some lawyers have said in the media that it was unthinkable that these emergency passports were distributed by the police officer in question. Can the Council of State assure the Government that it will introduce the kind of system that exists in Sweden, and is not unthinkable – something that has been stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, which almost does not mention organized crime in one word? Can the Council of State assure the Government that it will return to Stortinget as soon as possible with feedback on how this work is being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e932	First of all, I have to distance myself from the indications here from the representative Dahl that the government is not concerned with organized crime. Is that something we're concerned about, and increasingly, it's just how we're going to be able to fight it. I want to repeat what I have said about contacting the Police Directorate to ensure that the procedures per. Today is as good as it is at all possible to get. When it comes to the question of whether we should go in the direction of the same system that you have in Sweden, I can confirm that we want to make an assessment of whether it is wise to go in the direction that the Swedish have taken – so use machine-readable text and biometry also in the case of emergency passports. We will look at the Swedish experiences. [[The President clubs.]] There was time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e941	Just a short follow-up question: can the state council say something about the time perspective on it, it's quite interesting for many of these days to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e946	I can't say anything exactly about it. It is a fact that the Swedish scheme was introduced from 1 November, and if we are to be able to look at the experience from Sweden, it must take some time. But we recognize, as I think the representative understands from what I've said, that this is a problem, and that there are things here that need to go into more carefully. But what I can also say, not least with my own experience from foreign stations, is that it would be unthinkable to equip all Norwegian foreign stations with equipment for such production, because it would require the deployment of heavy and costly infrastructure. Then we must at least have had a thorough review in advance of how we can be sure that we will also make good use of the resources, if we are to think in the Swedish direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e953	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e960	This question, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e963	On behalf of the representative Siri A. Meling, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘A 19-year-old mother of three was sentenced to death for ‘imoral acts’ in Iran last year. The young woman is mentally retarded, was forced into prostitution as a child and was subjected to a series of serious abuses. Both Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen were involved in the case, and strong international pressure led to the judgment being converted to 99 whippings and imprisonment. How will the Government react to this judgment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e972	It is totally unacceptable that Leyla Mafi has been sentenced to whipping. In addition, it is very serious that a woman who has been forced into prostitution and who has been subjected to abuse from the time she was a child is sentenced to prison. This is contrary to international law. Norway, as the representative mentioned, has protested on several occasions against Iran’s use of brutal and inhumane criminal methods, and the Government will continue to address this with the Iranian authorities. I myself want to use the occasion for this when it bids. We work closely with like-minded countries on human rights issues in Iran. Unfortunately, developments are going in the wrong direction, including: several minors have been sentenced to death. And of course, this is completely unacceptable, and we're going to say that. Iran has acceded to the UN Children's Convention. Despite this, the Iranian authorities claim that the Islamic law is above the conventions to which it has acceded. We're also taking this very far away from, and we're using the opportunities we have to make that view known directly to Iran and to the international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e979	As in all possible other contexts, there is a stronger one when one is with others, and in particular with those with which one has a common basis of value. In these kinds of cases, Norway has on other occasions joined forces with the EU. The question is: will one continue to do so, and is there other international forums or partners that you can work with to strengthen this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e984	It's a clear Norwegian line to use the opportunities we have in international forums to do a common cause with others. On such foreign policy issues, it is quite common for us to subscribe to EU opinions and resolutions. And if that gives us the opportunity, I'll see it as natural that we join such an opinion, in addition to what we mark on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e989	On the basis of this specific case, it may be of interest to have an assessment by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the extent to which human rights violations will be tolerated by Norway before there are further consequences for other bilateral relations with the country concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e994	In the case of Iran, conditions are many. I can also mention that the Iranian authorities believe that the criminal detainee for girls is 9 years old, and that for boys it is 15 years old, while the UN Children's Convention points to it being much higher. They are obliged to have persons under the age of 18 considered as children. With regard to our dialogue with countries, and the way to influence them, I believe there is an ongoing balancing process in which the Norwegian line has been to believe that when we intervene in other countries and cooperate in several areas, it gives influence to address violations of human rights. The channels we have for Iran, we have to use them that way. But it is also clear that countries where human rights are systematically and in the most serious way are not countries with which it is natural to develop very close links. We also need to select more arenas to influence development, and that also applies to Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1005	This and the previous question have strong synergies. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: ‘Since 1979, the Government of Iran has deprived the Bahais of access to higher education, as part of a broader strategy of persecution. The Bahais are the largest religious minority in Iran and are subjected to extensive religious discrimination. The Bahais have been promised access to universities and colleges if they only profess to be Muslims. Will the Government respond to this group being deprived of the right to freedom of religion and higher education, and what reactions will be relevant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1014	As I said in the previous answer, Norway follows closely the development of the human rights situation in Iran. This also means that we have focused on how the situation of the Bahaians has evolved in the country, and former governments have done so. Norway has repeatedly protested against the treatment of the Bahaia against the Iranian authorities, among others. Iran's ambassador was called in to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in August this year. Then the situation of the Bahaia was particularly highlighted. It's a kind of reaction pattern that I support, and we'll also be able to use it. We are particularly aware that the Bahaians are deprived of the right to higher education in Iran. The Iranian authorities have long demanded, as the representative said, that the Bahaians declare themselves Muslims to have access to public and private universities. For reasons of conscience, they will not accept this, and the requirement is also a serious breach of their right to freedom of religion. Norway is also co-rapporteur for a resolution on the human rights situation in Iran to be presented at the UN General Assembly of the Year. This resolution sets out a specific focus on the situation of the Bahaians and expresses concern that they are deprived of the right to higher education. Furthermore, I can mention that Norway has been a co-rapporteur for all the resolutions promoted in the General Assembly on the human rights situation in Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1023	I thank you for the answer, and also thank you for the fact that the Foreign Minister is now signaling a continuation of the former government's follow-up to the poor human rights situation that exists in Iran and elsewhere in the world. The opposition is here in a common struggle with the Government for democracy and for human rights throughout the world, and I am very pleased with that continuation. I would also like to add that in his answer to the previous question, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a very correct reference to the fact that religious laws should not exceed international declarations. And the Declaration of Human Rights says that the right to education is universal. Is there any particular reaction to Iran as a country that has agreed to sign the Declaration of Human Rights, but at the same time does it not respect it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1030	Firstly, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark says, it is a strength that we have broad agreement on these principles in Norway and in this Chamber. It also provides a strength for the Government to maintain a justified profile on the human rights side. In the case of special reactions, it's not that we have sanctions that directly interfere with Iranian society. But the channels that I have mentioned, that as a country we react diplomatically, that we take it up in the UN agencies, and that we use the multilateral opportunities that had to afford us to highlight those views, is a line Norway has followed and will continue to follow. I think that's the best tool we have to push in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1037	In the last presidential election campaign in Iran, there were several moderate candidates who were refused to stand still, or had problems silently, and it was also a so-called hardliner who finally won the election. Is it the Foreign Minister's view that, after the last presidential election, there is now a stronger religious persecution and an even stronger repression of democracy in Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1044	What is clear after the last presidential election is that the situation in Iran is inconclusive. From the highest religious point of view, there has been an intervention in the distribution of power between the top religious class and the president. The situation is therefore unclear. What is absolutely certain is that this does not serve the situation of human rights and the development of democratic diversity in Iranian society. My answer is therefore that the situation gives cause for concern. And as demonstrated by my previous answer today, and by the response to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, there are examples of the negative nature of the human rights situation, the loss of influence by the democratic institutions, and the weakening and going in the wrong direction of a democratic system of governance taking place within Iranian culture. That gives cause for deep concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1051	We then answer questions 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1058	‘The Board of Diploma Is recommended at its meeting on 13 October to shut down production and 55 local jobs in Rakkestad. The Government Party's Declaration of Accession gives rise to an active state commitment, in cooperation with industry and workers. Government parties also showed a high level of commitment to the preservation of Union workplaces in Skien. What will the State Council now do to maintain the jobs of Diploma Is in Rakkestad, or what conversion package may be put in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1065	I am aware that Tine's wholly-owned subsidiary Diploma-Is has worked to structure the business in Norway to contribute to future profitable ice cream production. In this connection, there also appears to be prospects for the plant in Rakkestad in Eastfold to be shut down. The matter is being discussed in the company. As far as I am aware, the Management Board of the Diploma Is aims at finalising its position on this issue on 25 November this year. I have so far no indications of anything other than that the Diploma Is has carried out a neat and proper process in this matter. The Diploma Is is responsible for carrying out business assessments that contribute to continued profitable ice cream production. Any closure in Rakkestad seems to require an increase in the number of employees at Gålleråsen outside Oslo and in Brevik in Porsgön municipality. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to shift the production of ice cream out of Norway. At this stage, it is difficult to have any clear opinion as to whether any closure of Rakkestad ice cream production would involve the need for a specific public exposure and in the case of the case in question. In my view, it is important that first get a good overview of the regional and social consequences of any closure of Rakkestad ice cream production. When such an overview is available, I see it as natural that local and regional authorities along with, among other things, the labour authorities and the instrument assesses the need for possible measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1077	I thank you for your answer. There has been a tidy process on the part of Diploma-Is. It is also obvious that the Diploma Is has a separate responsibility for assessing and making business decisions relating to the activities of the Rakkestad department. But I'm surprised that the Council of State answers in a little general terms, because there was no lack of involvement in the Council of State's party earlier this autumn in similar matters. We have a lot of things we can draw up, where the state has actually gone into action when corner stone companies have been threatened with closure or have been shut down. I therefore ask for a little more specificity. If the board of directors of Diploma Is were to take the final decision to close the department in Rakkestad, could the Council of State indicate anything about the size of the conversion package that might be involved when the overview that the Council of State wants to have on the table first exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1086	It is difficult for me to advance the Board's final decision on ice cream production in Rakkestad. However, it is quite clear that the Government, together with regional and local authorities, will look at possible measures to address local community disadvantages if the enterprise is to be reduced against assumption. These are measures that may need to be brought back once a final decision has been taken and an overview of the consequences of that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1091	I thank you again for the answer. It has become known today that Diploma-Is might consider shutting down the warehouse in Rakkestad. This means that there are 40 other jobs that may be lost. As the Council of State is aware, Diploma Is has offered some of the employees who lose their place in Rakkestad to move on to the group – perhaps up to eight to Oslo and six to Brevik. But this is not an optimal solution. Firstly, it leads to more centralisation of jobs to Oslo, and it also leads to increased commuting. But I am pleased that the Council of State suggests, both in the main response and in additional responses, that there will be cooperation between local and regional authorities on changes in the labour market in the Rakkestad area. But I want and hope that there will be an active state commitment, as stated in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1102	I can confirm that it will be an active state involvement. I also agree with the representative that there is no optimal solution for a business to be shut down, either for the community or for the employees. It is quite clear that local, regional and central authorities will focus on and have an involvement in relation to the consequences of any closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1111	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The traditional industrial enterprise M. Peterson & Søn AS’ – which has gradually changed its name to Peterson Linerboard AS – ‘in Moss with its 330 employees is in danger of being closed due to, among other things, very strict environmental requirements and high electricity charges. Furthermore, the existing railway line creates significant problems for the company. Upon accession, the Minister of Industry stated that he had his political toolbox full of tools he wanted to use. What will the Council of State do specifically to safeguard the important industrial enterprise in Moss?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1120	The government will pursue an active industrial policy in which the state is involved in partnership with industry and employees. Norway shall be a good country to engage in business. In the case of M. Peterson & Søn AS in Moss, they have an emission permit which means that the company must have biological sewage treatment plants installed by 30 October 2007. The requirement is justified on the basis of the recipient conditions in Mossesundet. The holding has applied for a five-year grace period for the SFT. The company justifies the application, inter alia: with its economic hardship. The cost of installing biological sewage treatment plants is estimated by the company to be 155 million. kr. This amount is much higher than previously assumed – then calculated to be 85 million. kr. The company will save 20 million. kr by being able to establish sewage treatment plants where the line passes through the factory area, and the company would therefore like to expect a reversion of the line. For a case such as this, the SFT is initially obliged to give the public the opportunity to express their views before a decision is taken. The minimum period for consultation shall be four weeks. If, for reasons of the environment, the need to resolve an acute problem or serious social interest is urgent in granting authorisation, the period may be reduced. The SFT will now send the application to the hearing and has informed that they intend to be able to take a decision in the case just over the new year. The decision may be appealed against to the Ministry of the Environment. In the case of the railway track to which the representative Engeset refers, the Sandbukta-Moss railway project is important for urban and industrial development in the municipality of Moss. Realisation of the project will lead the Eastfold Railway in the tunnel through Moss and will free up areas on today's rail tracks, such as: passes through M. Peterson & Son AS’ business area. A comprehensive statement has been made on the status of this project in the Ministry of Transport of the Ministry of Transport. No 1 for 2005-2006, on pages 159-161. The government will actively follow up on this project, for example. in dialogue with the Municipality of Ostfold and the municipality of Moss, in the light of the wording of the Soria Moria declaration on increased railway activity. As far as the high-intensity and woodworking industries are concerned, these face specific challenges, including: as a result of the fact that the power agreements with State power, under government-determined conditions, are largely due to expire in the years to come. The government will work to find schemes that ensure industry while complying with current EEA legislation. The wood processing industry is initially paying the current minimum electricity charge, which is currently 0.45 øre per. kWh. However, the ESA guidelines provide for exemptions from this minimum rate if enterprises implement environmental measures equivalent to the effect of the tax rate. The NVE has established an application procedure for wood processing plants in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1137	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that Peterson in Moss is at least as important an industrial enterprise for Moss and Eastfold as the Union is, and was, for Skien and Telemark. In relation to the commitment shown, not least in the election campaign, from the party of the Council of State, and what was then said and described as a very active industrial policy, I have to say that the answer from the Minister of Industry was not very close to being as concrete as I might have expected. However, I note with satisfaction that he signals that the government will actively follow up the railway track, the so-called option 2B, under Moss. I would like to follow up with an additional question: when can we get the Government's answer to what is concrete in the wording 'actively follow up' this railway track solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1146	Finally, the representative will not get the specific content of the matter at this stage. As I said, this is mentioned in St. Prp. No 1, and we'll have to get back to the more specific content. In addition, this is a matter for the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. I'm sure we'll come back to the specific content gradually. Otherwise, I agree with the representative that the company is important to Moss municipality, and it would be interesting for me to follow up the development of the company in the future. Then the representative refers to the activity around the Union in the pre-election period. I am very pleased that the previous government and the previous Minister of Industry showed a clear commitment, along with the parties that today make up the majority of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1155	I would like to stress that I respect the fact that the various Councils are responsible for each of their portfolios, and I understand that the Minister of Economic Affairs is a little restrained in the face of other councillors – I fully understand that. But since in his reply to me, he was so specific about two elements that obviously come under the responsibility of other government councils, I feel that it is in some way reasonable to follow up on the supplementary question as well. Finally, on the basis of the answer given by the Minister of Industry: With regard to this application submitted by the company in relation to the postponement of the cleaning plant, the point is that this is urgent. What I am concerned about is that the company will receive a quick and positive response to its application. How quickly can you expect such an answer to be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1162	I referred to the deadlines that SFT is required to comply with in this type of case. I have not received any signals from the company or the municipality of Moss that the matter has gone out unnecessarily. I may have to come back to that. With regard to the follow-up to the measures relating to the railway part of the question, this will also be followed up in close cooperation with Østfold County and Moss Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1169	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1177	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: «At the same time as we want to bet on a large military presence in our northern regions, it is now an order for the Army to replace its tanks with Mercedes-jeeps in the armored battalion at Setermoen in Troms. Does the Council of State support such a major change, and what will the Council of State do if she does not agree with such a radical change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1186	As stated in the Declaration of Accession of the Stoltenberg II Government, the northern regions will be Norway’s main strategic area in the years to come. This involves increased operational activities in the Defence of the North and includes both maritime, air and land forces. In this respect, I refer you to the Government's proposal in the supplementary proposal for the 2006 state budget, which will be presented tomorrow. In the case of the Army, Stortinget agreed to the structure proposed in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 on the further modernisation of defence. I refer in this connection to Innst. S. No 234 for 2003–2004. The purpose of the conversion is to strengthen the operational capability of the defence. The change involves a qualitative improvement in the structure by making the forces of the Army more usable and accessible. In the case of materials, the same proposition also signalled a goal of making Army departments easier and more flexible. These objectives are set. As part of the efforts to achieve the above-mentioned objectives and to reduce costs within a tight financial framework, the Inspector-General of the Army, as a temporary solution, plans to test Mercedes field vehicles at the Armour Battalion at Setermoen in Troms in 2006. The vehicles will be put into service as an addition to existing armoured vehicles. The latter includes, inter alia: storm armored carriages. In the case of tanks other than Leopard 1, in line with the 2005-2008 long-term plan, is no longer part of the main equipment in Brigade Nord. The vehicles have therefore been removed from service, but are still stored in North Norway. The trial at Setermoen will provide the Defense with important experience as part of the basis for the further development of the Army. I will return to Stortinget with well-worked, comprehensive recommendations on the future structure of defence, including the Army, at the latest in connection with the presentation of the next long-term defence plan. I would like to stress that the Government will continue the main features of the transition that started under the Stoltenberg I government, and which is broadly anchored here in Stortinget. The continuation will be assessed against the objective of a high level of defence presence in the north. It is the Government's ambition that a significant part of a modernized and forward-looking army is located in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1205	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State says that the northern regions should be our strategic focus in the years to come. That's where we agree. But when it comes to the way you bet up there, maybe we can disagree. Personally, I think going from armoured wagons to military jeeper is going a little too far. This is a type of jeep that one almost finds on every other farm, and another person has such a car. I really don't know if it will be anything particularly deterrent to drive around in anything like this. It says to keep 10 storm armored wagons, but the Leopard tanks should be removed. It's not long since we bought these Leopard tanks. It's been less than a year since we got the last, and many of them are not yet converted. Doesn't the Council of State think this will signal that we're just trying to downgrade the defense in the northern regions, instead of betting on what the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1214	As I said in my answer, the government wants to have a high presence of the Defence in the north, and that the northern areas are the most important bet area for us. In the case of these tested field wagons, the same type of field wagons are used by our forces in Afghanistan. It is also this type of vehicle that has been assessed to be the most flexible and operational for the threat picture we see today. If there were to be threats to Norway, it would most likely be terrorist attacks. If this were to happen against e.g. infrastructure, it will be important to have vehicles that are flexible, operational and fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1221	I thank the Council once again for the answer. In particular, when it comes to light armoured vehicles, light jeeps and that these are wanted in international operations, I really hope that we will not empty North Norway for equipment if there is to be a need for that kind of equipment elsewhere in the world. I believe and firmly believe that the equipment we have in North Norway is going to be in North Norway just to secure what we have up there. And that's a lot. In addition, we're talking about keeping the materials and strengthening our neighborhoods in the north, but at the same time we're saying that the garrison in Porsangs might have to be laid down, Hegelia will be laid down, and Shield might have to be laid down. And then what is it? So I think it's a dangerous direction we're moving in now, that what's in North Norway is going to be gathered in one place, and also that the equipment we're going to have is going to be easy equipment, and not deterrent at all. And then we can ask questions about whether this is because of economics or whether it's for military reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1230	As I said, there must still be significant material in North Norway, including the material that the representative, Mr. Bredvold, is asking for. What is done in this matter is a clear follow-up of St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004. This is an experiment, and then we'll come back and look at the experience with these vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1239	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘There are major local protests regarding the landfill of large quantities of contaminated mass in the Gulf of Dramstad, Drammensfjorden. The Progress Party has called for an alternative deposit. What initiative has the Council of State planned to take in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1248	The government attaches great importance to the clean-up of old contaminants, and will, among other things, present an action plan to ensure stepping up efforts to clean up contaminated seabeds in fjords and ports. Contaminations from past emissions have resulted in large quantities of contaminated seabed along the coast. In some places, these masses need to be taken up, for example: to increase the depth of navigation or to increase the risk of dispersal of swirling. This presents challenges, including: related to the landfill of large quantities of contaminated masses. The use of well-covered deep-water or shallow-water landfills may be suitable for handling such masses. The specific matter raised by the representative Knudsen concerns the deposit of approx. 70000 m3 with contaminated bottom masses in a deep water area in the Gulf of Drammensfjorden. The masses shall be taken up to increase the depth of the voyage into a dry dock in Fredrikstad. State pollution control has authorised the landfilling of the masses about 100 metres deep in the Gulf of Drama City. The landfill is empty for oxygen and therefore almost empty for plant and animal life. The masses deposited here shall be covered with a meter-thick layer of clean masses, which will act as a lid and prevent further leaching or removal of contamination. The area has already been used in two winter seasons for the landfill of significantly larger masses from another dredging project in the Svelvik stream. The monitoring programme for this deposit shows that there is little dispersal of particles, during the deposit itself and in time afterwards. The necessary permits for the deposit were granted under the previous government. The final decision is taken by the State pollution control body, which has considered that landfilling can take place without a significant risk of pollution spreading and the deadline for over-testing in accordance with the rules of the Administration Act has expired. The State pollution control body may normally consider a case in case of new elements relevant to the case. I would like to ask the State pollution authorities to review the case again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1266	This was a partially positive response. It's a fact that the public has used a lot of resources to clean the Drammen watercourse, and then it seems to me pointlessly that you have to keep dumping contaminated masses in the area, whether it's actually such that you've dumped something there before. The area in question is also widely used for recreational activities, for bathing, boating, etc., and therefore, in my view, it is important to look at the alternative to landfilling on land. I understand from the Council of State that she will enter into a concrete dialogue with the State pollution regulator to look at this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1273	The representative Knudsen has understood me quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1278	In the local debate there has been disagreement as to how polluting the masses present in Fredrikstad and intended to be moved to the Gulf of Dramstad are. Test results have been obtained from the State pollution authorities, from the company and from Bellona, which have been partly directly contradictory. Other results from the action group have also been claimed. In the political and social debate on such issues, it is important to have confidence in the tests taken by the State pollution control body. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we have properly quality assurance tests in the future, so that we can have a consensus on the actual situation in the social debate when local political and central political authorities are going to decide on matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1283	I have full confidence that the State pollution authorities have competence and carry out good quality sampling. That is why I fully trust that the tests carried out by the State pollution authorities are of good quality, and I will build on that in the decision that I will take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1292	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘A property of 146000 decks on Hardangervidda is for sale. A number of organisations, like the Left, have asked the Government to try to deal with the property, among others. to ensure public access to hunting and fishing. The Ministry of the Environment at State Secretary Henriette Westhrin said on 28 October to TV 2 that this was not the case. On 2 November, the State Secretary said to TV 2 that the department would look at the matter again. Can the Council of State clarify the Government’s view and whether the State will attempt to purchase this valuable property?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1301	The government is committed to ensuring this and future generations' access to good natural experiences. All-person rights are a support bar for the exercise of an active open-air life and ensure that out-lands – whether privately owned or in public ownership – are accessible to the public. The property Vestre Vollene, which is entirely within Hardangervidda National Park, is now privately owned. Under the law of the open-air law, the public has access to free movement, rest, counting and harvesting of berries on the property. The potential of the landowner for commercial exploitation of the property is limited by the national park's protection provisions, which ensure official control of possible plans for expansion or other natural interference. The right to hunting and fishing is initially an exclusive right of basic ownership. Public access to hunting and fishing will therefore depend on the fact that landowners want to give access to the public and that the price is affordable for most people. Today it is the case that the public has reasonable access to hunting and fishing on all state grounds and in all public opinion. In addition, large areas have been made available to the public through cooperation between private landowners and local authorities and/or local hunting and fishing associations. In my opinion, there is no solution to the general state’s intervention as a landowner to ensure fair access to hunting and fishing in larger outland areas. However, if the occasion and conditions are appropriate, the State should be able to purchase through either the Ministry of the Environment or the State Forest SF in exceptional cases. I am aware that Vinje Municipality is in dialogue with the seller about the property Vestre Vollene. I see it as very positive, and I await the outcome of this dialogue. If the owners were to be willing to sell to the public at an acceptable price, the government would of course seriously consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1320	I would like to thank you for the answer, which was not as elucidating as I had hoped. In the case of a Building Deity property, the government showed – almost before it joined – that it was capable of action. Here, what has happened has been characterized by gnawing. A few days later, the Council of State said that it was not appropriate to buy this property. There is now a danger that this sewer may result in the government not being able to deal with this property. My question is, what is the reason why one will not enable Statskog or Norsk Utmark to buy this property, which is of such a large and unique value, and which so many organizations representing users recommend becoming state owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1329	It is important to highlight the public’s rights to land. It is natural for us, as I also said in my answer, that we assess purchases in dialogue with Vinje municipality. We follow the process carefully. We will consider any purchase, either with Vinje municipality or on our own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1334	So what has previously been said that it's not relevant for the state to buy this property, isn't the policy at this point? That's the one question. So to question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox Heidi Sørensen, SV's environmental policy representative in Stortinget, has said that this is an important principle for SV. Is that for the Government as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1341	I want to stress what I have said in my answer, that in general there is no solution for the state to enter as the landowner to ensure fair access to hunting and fishing. But in certain specific cases it may be relevant. We will continue to assess whether it is relevant for us to make a purchase, either in cooperation with Vinje Municipality or via the Ministry of Environmental Protection or, where appropriate, Statskog.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1350	I have the following questions for the country's Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The NVE shall have per year: On 1 January 2005, the total technical and economic expandable hydropower potential in Norway was calculated at 205 TWh, within specific investment costs limits. This calculation represents a significant upscaling of the hydropower potential compared to the summary of 1 January 2004. The calculation from NVE shows a residual expandable potential of around 42 TWh. Around 25 TWh lies within the framework of small-scale power plants. What will the Council of State propose in concrete terms in order to achieve increased deployment of small-scale power plants in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1359	From the nature point of view, we in Norway are very well equipped to produce renewable energy. Of course, this applies to hydropower, which stands for 99 pst. of our electricity production today, and this applies in addition to wind, waves, tides, bioenergy, etc. I want to facilitate the use of these possibilities, but it has to be done in an environmentally sound way. Although renewable energy has many pluses in an environmental bill, the development of renewable energy production also leads to negative environmental impacts and user conflicts. Environmental impacts and user conflicts vary considerably between the different technologies and projects. The challenge is to facilitate the realisation of projects that are mutually beneficial to society. Through the established concession system and the overall economic environment, we already have a good starting point. On the basis of the Soria Moria declaration, I will work to further develop the overall instrument, where necessary, in order to realise the development of a significant potential for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1375	It was an answer that, in my view, was not quite suitable for creating the great optimism in this field. The Council of State mentions the Soria Moria Declaration. In the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the Government's platform, it is – as far as I understand it – that small-scale power plants seem to be exempt from this possible future scheme of a green certification system. There are very many people who have applied to realize small-scale power plants around the country and beach, and they are now very wondering about this. Many of these projects are in a difficult situation. Does the Council have a good explanation as to why, where appropriate, small-scale power plants should be exempted from a future electricity certification system in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1384	Small-scale power plants also represent a significant potential. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that the potential of small power plants, mini-power plants and micro-power plants is to be realised in order to strengthen the production of renewable energy. The government has now taken up a job of drawing up a green certificate, and there is still a good deal of work, for which I believe the representative understands, considering that it is barely one month since the government joined. At a later stage, we will present the green certificate scheme to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1391	I understand that the Council of State won't answer my specific question, but I might ask in a slightly different way. In terms of stimulating an increase in production capacity within hydropower, just green certificates and an electricity certification system are an instrument that all batches agree on. But in my view, it would also make sense to make this system technology neutral. I would also challenge the Council of State that this system of green certificates should include all new hydropower generation, and not be limited to, for example. micro power plants and 1 MW. What's the Council's comment on that? If we are to get some speed on this and get more capacity and production in Norway, I think it must, as in Sweden, include all new production capacity in terms of hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1400	My comment about this is that of course I take with me all reasonable input into relation to the device of a future green certificate regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1409	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘During the Statnett Winter Conference on 1 November, Statnett warned that the power situation in central Norway is becoming precarious. This despite a great unsolved power potential in the region. I mention: the development of Weftsna, mini-power plants in Gaula's lateral watercourses, gas power on Forests and the Tjeldbergodden and the development of wind power along the coast. Statnett believes that the critical level will be reached by 2010. What will the Council of State do to avoid introducing force rationing in Central Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1418	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that Norway should have a safer and better energy supply. A secure power supply consists of a combination of good power transmission capability and sufficient generation. The government will invest in new environmentally friendly energy forms, hydropower upgrades and environmentally friendly use of natural gas to increase energy supply. As the representative says, Mid-Norway is an area where it is particularly necessary to focus on the opportunities for increased energy access, and it will also be done by the Government. In the case of transmission, it is the State network as a transmission system operator that ensures an efficient and secure transmission system for power with sufficient capacity throughout the country. State networks shall invest in transmission networks in accordance with socio-economic principles in order to ensure security of supply. Statnett, as the representative mentions, has a special focus on the situation in Middle Norway. Consumption in the region will increase in the coming years, including: as a result of Hydro’s expansion of the aluminiumworks on the Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension. State networks are now making several major network investments in the area specifically linked to these projects. Middle Norway is also experiencing general growth in consumption for general supply. Statnet analyses several main variants of new grid reinforcements to ensure security of supply in central Norway. According to Statnett, the analyses show that the benefits of strengthening are considerable. Furthermore, the analyses show that there will be significant network savings related to the establishment of new production in the area. These are measures that will help improve security of supply in central Norway in the longer term. Overall, I believe that we have a framework that would ensure satisfactory security of supply in the future, even in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1433	I thank you for your answer. I find that the Council of State is very concerned with web development, which is of course important. But I think I have to be allowed to draw attention to the fact that the current line does not produce electricity, which Statnett's own director also points out. We know that we have a national undercover of 9 TWh in a normal year and 22 TWh in a dry year. We need to have new production in place. The alternative, I fear, may be that we will see a closure of the industry that has grown up in mid-Norway, from Møre in the south to the North Sea. The Councils of State are also in the process of rebuilding the region in their response today. Now I'm wondering, what kind of expansion is the Council of State thinking about? And when could it be in place? By 2010, which is clearly a critical year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1444	It is difficult to answer when new capacity will be in place. As we know, it was almost six years ago – I think – given concession for the construction of several gas power plants. When we only see today the beginning of the first gas power plant, this is not due to the lack of permission to build gas power plants, but precisely to the fact that the commercial operators to expand have not seen any profitability in doing so. That's one of the challenges we're facing. The government's ambition is to facilitate the use of renewable energy, in the form of wind, where we have many exciting projects on the table that together can provide a significant potential in terms of increased production, in the form of bioenergy, where we have a great potential, in the form of wave power and not least in the form of small power plants, mini-power plants and upgrading of existing power plants. These are among the tasks that the Government has now undertaken, which will increase security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1451	There may be many reasons why gas power stations have not been built on Forests and Tents. One of them is the infrastructure that is needed to transport the gas, something that one must be willing to contribute to the financing of, which the Government has also signaled that it wants to contribute to. It might have been interesting if the Council of State could give a signal about the amount of that contribution. Another thing that we have discussed today is the WTO and the loss of income for Norwegian farmers. A new source of income for the farmers is the possibility of allowing the development of micro and mini-power plants in the sheltered watercourses in central Norway, and so far in northern Norway. I can mention in particular the Wefsna, which will be protected, where you have a good deal of side watercourses. Similarly, there are some side watercourses in Gaula that are suitable for micro- and mini-power development. Is there anything the Council of State will look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1458	In general, the development of mini- and micro-power plants will have a major focus, mainly through the work of facilitating green certificates, which is the first task that the Government will undertake. There is one matter in which several departments and several departments are involved with regard to where permission is to be granted to extend this type of power plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1467	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that the gas power plant at Kårstø will also have full scale CO2 removal plants by 2009. The additional costs have been stated by the Council of State in a written reply to the undersigned and in the media that the builders must contribute financially. It is from Naturkraft AS that additional costs for cleaning and compression are 1.5 billion. kr. In addition, the costs of any storage, distribution system and injection will be added. The proportion of costs of 1.5 billion. Is it the government's view that natural force should cover?'
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1479	As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government’s policy in the field of gas power is based on the fact that given concessions are on the ground and that the production of gas power is to be part of the international quota system which ensures that the total emissions do not increase. The government’s objective is to lead Norway in the environmentally friendly use of gas. Using economic instruments and investing in new technologies, the Government will implement CO2 removal solutions and create a value chain for CO2. If it becomes appropriate to apply the gas power station concessions granted to Forest and Kollsnes, the Government will also contribute to CO2 removal by them. The Government will cooperate with gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to their implementation as soon as possible. The objective is to achieve the capture of CO2 from the gas power plant at Kårstø by 2009. The government will also be responsible for creating a value chain for the transport and injection of CO2. The State shall also contribute financially to achieving this. The Government will set in motion as soon as possible the follow-up to the objectives set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. Let me add that this will be a high priority area for this Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1510	I thank you for your answer. The problem is that with this unexplained relationship, the government is helping to create a significant uncertainty because it is not clear what is going to be the cost distribution between the state and the natural force AS — they are as well known to be building. Natural force AS has stated clearly that costs cannot be incurred beyond what is in the calculation of the power plant itself, with the addition of 5 pst. of the allowance price, or approx. Twenty million. kr per. years. We know that the cost of establishing clean-up, capture and compression amounts to NOK 1.5 billion. The present value of 20 million. kr is approx. 280 million. kr paid, if applicable, by Natural Force as a lump sum. That means NOK 1.2 to 1.3 billion for the state. How do the Councils view this concrete picture of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1517	There's a lot of complicated issues that need to be clarified before you have a regime that can handle this in a sensible way. I think one of the great possibilities is related to just increased oil extraction on the base, which in the next round will contribute to a positive management of CO2 and thus provide a CO2 chain that can give something back on the other end, thus creating a positive financial contribution in terms of better resource use as well. That means that there is a complicated work we are doing, where all elements, all costs, must be included in the calculations to be made as a basis for the decisions to be taken by the Government. I am asking for an understanding that this is both a great job and a work that we have so far started on, and that we will need some more time to give precise signals about cost allocation. Then, too, the allocation of costs between commercial operators and the state will always have the mark of negotiation and thus be difficult to signal at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1532	It is true, as the Council of State says, that in addition, costs and cooperation are incurred in relation to storage, distribution, piping and injection in a cleared field, and the most likely area is Gullfaks. Here, however, the problem is that the one million tonnes of CO2 that Kårstø could possibly produce is only 20 pst. of what needs to be injected each year. In addition, as the Council of State says, this must be clarified with the oil companies and be in place by 2009. The cost of this part of the measure is much greater than the NOK 1.5 billion we have previously talked about, and this is very unclear between the parties. My last question to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of State guarantee that the progress of the Kårstø power plant will not be delayed – with consequences for the power situation, employment and activity in this region – because of these many unexplained conditions that the Government contributes to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1542	The responsibility for the propulsion and construction of gas power plants on Kårstø is that of the developer, not the Government. The government has said that the existing concessions are pending. The government does not intend to put any obstacles in the way of builders who are already implementing that project. I assume that the builder himself takes care of it in a reasonable and reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1551	I want to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘There are currently a number of wind power projects in the country and there are often significant local conflicts with regard to environmental interests. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will ‘increase the development of environmentally friendly wind power and, through the concession system, ensure good regional and national coordination of wind power development’. Does this mean that the Council of State will now prepare an overall plan for wind power generation, as has been done for hydropower?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1560	I do not intend to draw up an overall plan for wind power, as has been done for hydropower. The majority rejected this in 2004, and I find no reason to change this now. The number of possible wind power development sites along our coast is very large. If an overall plan for wind power development were to have any value, thorough wind measurements had to be made in the terrain over very large areas of the country. Such wind mapping requires the setting of a very large number of coastal wind measurement masts over a longer period of time. The costs of such wind measurements are significant. In addition to ensuring wind data for a very large number of potential locations, capacity and costs of transmission from installations had to be calculated and infrastructure assessments such as: roads and berths. Only when this work was carried out could one begin to assess the impact on the environment and other important societal considerations. There would also be a significant danger that such an overall plan would be expediently out of date. Wind power technology is in strong development, affecting costs and production potential. Wind power development projects are currently subject to thorough assessments. All notified wind power projects undergo extensive treatment under the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act. In the case of wind power projects, impact assessment requirements initially involve stakeholder organisations and relevant authorities and all important aspects of the development plans are highlighted. The normal processing time for wind power projects, from prior notification to final decision by the concession authorities, is currently between two and three years. In addition to the comprehensive treatment resulting from the established concession process, a system for thematic conflict assessments of wind power projects has been developed this year. Selected sectoral authorities are making a more detailed classification of the level of conflicts for each project. Furthermore, work has now begun on the establishment of guidelines for the planning and localisation of wind power plants. The thematic conflict assessments and the forthcoming guidelines will strengthen the regional and national coordination of wind power development, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1579	I thank you for your answer. Some of the same problems that one points to for wind power are also experienced for hydropower. There are a lot of cymbals around the country that could have been developed, but still one has worked to create an overall plan for hydropower. Some of this issue illustrates Statnett's last week at the Harvest Conference, where the Council of State was present, stressing the need for billions of investment in the central network if there is as much wind as one can assume from plans in North Norway. It is also stated in the force report of their 01.05. If you get a significant increase in wind power in North Norway, you will have to risk an investment of up to NOK 6 billion. This must be seen in relation to, for example, one. had built out gas power plants where you need the power. This underlines the need for authorities to look at power development as a whole, as was supported by the Socialist Left Party last year. Now they're in government. Should not the Council of State then consider whether the positions of the SV should also apply to the Government in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1590	All the development of force leads to conflicts in different areas, and in particular to the need to take many different types of considerations into account. It is also the case that the deployment of new generation capacity will often trigger the need for network reinforcement in order to bring power to consumers. It is also the case in relation to the extensive development of wind power that we face challenges on the website. Then wind power is a renewable energy source that needs to be exploited and that the Government intends to exploit within an environmentally sound framework. Of course, there will be assessments and careful impact assessments of this, which I have already stated in my first answer, in relation to the individual projects that come. But it's not like there's been a total plan for hydropower for every class in this country that can be expanded to a micropower plant. The overall plan has had different considerations than the type of considerations asked by the representative Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1601	As far as the need for more force is concerned, the Council of State was also involved in its contribution to the State Harvest Conference. The situation of the force balance is worrying. It also underlined the Council of State. Statnett pointed out that it could actually be critical in 2010 if we don't get to do anything special in Middle Norway. At the same time, we know that the potential for the construction of small-scale NVE power plants is estimated to be approx. Twenty-five TWh. Upgrading of power plants and major hydropower projects has a potential of up to 18 TWh. This usually has a lower development cost than wind power. The previous government numerically fixed a measure of the wind power of 3 TWh by 2010. It has triggered project proposals of NOK 15 billion in wind power. What are the objectives of this Government for wind power, and an estimate of how much money is it willing to spend to achieve the goal it has set?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1612	In particular, it is the individual actors who decide what makes sense to develop from a commercial point of view. There is reason to believe that upgrading existing hydropower plants and the development of small-scale power stations, which have a more reasonable cost than the development of wind power, will only be realised if purely commercial considerations are taken into account. We have recently seen that electricity prices have increased a lot. We know we have sub-coverage. It also appears, therefore, that the commercial interest in increasing production capacity is now greater than it has been in the past. I assume that – and I will assume that it also applies to the actors within wind power – and that we will therefore see a greater degree of upgrading of existing hydropower. It would be beneficial to make use of the potential that lies there in terms of modernisation and renewal in those areas where it is environmentally sound to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1623	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «According to the Finanzavisen on 3 November, the World Bank and Deutsche Bank saw a multiple increase in the price of CO2 quotas. It will drive Norwegian and European electricity prices in the weather and weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian industry compared to countries not included in the quota system. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Norwegian energy-intensive industry is not forced to move outside the quota system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1635	I am convinced that the representative and I agree that the industry is of great importance to us as a nation. We are undoubtedly well placed to develop industry both through the natural resources that exist and through the high level of competence that we have in the population and in industry. In view of this, it is therefore the government’s clear ambition to facilitate the development and contribution of Norwegian industry to employment in the future. As regards the future framework conditions for industry, the Government's objectives are described in the Soria Moria Declaration. As I said, we want to develop further and at the same time contribute to the development of new industrial activities. Both through central and local instruments, we will do this, thus ensuring a reasonable and long-term environment for industry to develop. I have, of course, also noticed the concern the industry has for increasing power prices, including. with reference to the increased price of CO2 allowances. This is not a strange problem. It is a European problem that the representative also points to. The government will work to find schemes that ensure industry and that also comply with current EEA legislation. At the same time, the Government will also work for a more comprehensive and ambitious international climate agreement to follow the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1649	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that the conditions should be established for Norwegian industry and that they should have good framework conditions in relation to countries with which they compete, both in Europe and in other parts of the world. In this regard, I would like to remind the Council of State of Enoxen of the commitment that was in the Union case in the election campaign. Then there was no way in which these government parties that have now formed a government would do. They complained that the previous government had an empty toolbox in that way. I will challenge the Council of State on the following: What will the Government now do to facilitate the conditions for the Union and some other industrial enterprises, where they criticized the previous Government? Can the Council of State show some of the tools that the Government has?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1662	I can promise the representative that the government will have the same high commitment in the future to ensure Norwegian business and Norwegian industry development opportunities and a future in Norway, among others. by helping us to also have a future regime of power to ensure that this type of industry has predictability and long-termity in its energy supply, which is essential precisely to maintain this type of industry. Then it is important to point out – and I hope that the Progress Party realizes that the time has now come to follow that line – that it is also dependent on working for more comprehensive international climate agreements that ensure that we avoid exactly what the representative of Korsberg pointed out, that industry is moving to countries that do not have such agreements. It is necessary from a climate point of view that all countries are covered by climate agreements, and in this respect I would just like to point out the forecasts presented by the IEA in relation to increased energy consumption and increased greenhouse gas emissions over the next 20 years, which are some of the major climate policy challenges we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1669	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a little concrete. I would remind the Council of a wish from the paper industry when we negotiated the ratification of the Kyoto agreement, that they wanted to go into the quota system and not have a levy today. It is clear to the Council of State here and now whether they will have the opportunity to comply with their wishes in this way. Otherwise, I have also registered that the Council of State is in favour of a gas pipeline to Grenland and Østfold. Here I would like to welcome the Council of State since the Progress Party has promoted this as a proposal in the previous period, i.e. in the spring. I understand that the Council of State is not going to respond specifically to how much is in the budget, so the question is: is there so much inside the budget that you can expect to start building this pipeline physically?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1678	There is no doubt that the Progress Party too can have good proposals. The realization of a gas pipeline to Grenland is a project that has had significant digestion in this room from several long-term batches, including from the Progress Party. Gassco is working on figuring out the possibilities for this tube. They shall submit a report within the New Year to my department. But what is already clear is that the commercial interest in participating in a pipeline to Grenland with branches into Oslo and also to West Sweden is of such a magnitude that it seems that this could be a very interesting project that should have great opportunities to be realized. I think we should all be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1685	Questions 13 and 14 have been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1692	I note that this is the first question for a newly appointed Minister of Transport, so let me begin by congratulating and wish you good luck in an important office. So to the question: ‘Among several important transportation projects in Hordaland, the Jondal Tunnel is the least State aid. It's set at 30 million. kr for this remaining large county road project, which has a short time for construction start, short construction time, low risk and investment total of approximately. 500 million. kr. Other and larger Hordaland projects are all presented to the Stortinget through its own propositions. What will the Council of State do to ensure rapid progress and rapid construction of the Jondal tunnel project in Hordaland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1701	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Sortevik, for the closure. That's always a good thing. I can assure the representative of Sortevik that the work on launching the Jondal tunnel project is in full swing. External quality assurance under the control of the State is both right and important in addition to the quality assurance under the direction of the State Road Administration, Region West. The work on preparing this is all going on. I have indicated that the matter could be brought before Stortinget as early as advice in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1710	I thank you for your answer. I am glad that it now seems to be a movement in the matter again. As far as I know, a toll claim was finally sent from the State Road Administration, the West Region, early in July, after processing in the department for further treatment and approval in Stortinget. So it's been four months to get the case on for political treatment in the department. The last message from the outgoing Council of State was that the matter had not come from the Office for further political treatment in the Department. Is this good etching? Should we have so late to deal with important issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1717	Careful handling of cases is important. For those who are fans and are very concerned about getting this project realized, it is not least important that we have a good basis to build a decision on. Such work will necessarily take some time. As I said in my first answer, it is decided that we should have an external quality assurance, but I suggest that it should be done as quickly and effectively as possible. I have seen full pressure on the matter. As I said, I expect the matter to be presented as early as possible in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1724	I thank you again for the answer and share the expectation that we will now have the matter dealt with in late autumn 2005. Equally full, the system and arrangements for the mandatory external quality assurance of projects in the order of more than 500 million. kr mainly for State investment projects. The project that is the subject of the call is a rural road project, one of the few remaining major rural road projects where the state's share is very small and where it is the county municipality that bears the great risk together with municipalities, private operators and businesses in the region that also makes use of funds. Is it then right to use the compulsory scheme for a project that is not actually a State project?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1731	There will always be a discussion theme if you want to use the external quality assurance of a project which is in this case a state-of-the-art project. Now, however, the state has some resources in the project. It is important to get a good project that can be implemented in a solid way, that we are sure of the number on which we build our decisions. So we have decided that it must be an external quality assurance. As I said, please note that it will not delay the project more than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1740	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Many commuters in Akershus want to use the departures of AS Gardermobanen to get faster and easier to and from work in Oslo. The NSB's departures are very full in rush time, while the Gardermoban has free capacity. In order to use available capacity within the train network in Akershus, AS Gardermobanen must offer commuters the possibility of transition/addition with a regular monthly card. The county council in Akershus has several times unanimously adopted this. Will the Council of State explore such an opportunity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1749	I'm noticing that the NSB Gardermobanen AS is liquidated, and that the company is now called Flytoget AS. The management and ownership of the company are now with the Minister of Industry, and the owner issues relating to the Flytrain must be further addressed to him. I have therefore submitted the question to the Minister for Industry. The question about whether the Fly train can include normal commuters has been raised several times and is well-delivered. The Minister of Economic Affairs therefore sees no reason to explain this in more detail. I'm joining this. I would also like to show that it is the board of directors of the company's responsibility to address the question if you find it economically viable. The purpose of the train is to ensure a high number of collective travellers to and from the aerodrome. If the company is required to include commuters, this could lead to a poorer offer, which could reduce the high collective portion of the airport. The flight today has a market share of 33 pst. by all travellers to and from Oslo Airport. Today it takes 51 minutes from Asker to Oslo Airport and 19 minutes from Oslo S. The business page of the Flytrain is to have the best transport to and from the airport, with emphasis on safety, punctuality and service. The customer is well-accompanied with the Fly train, and the brand value is far too high. A changed business model in which the Fly train is required to operate regular passenger services on the route with the same train sets will lead to poorer train provision for those travelling to and from the aerodrome, including: longer journey time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1760	The background to me asking this question to the Minister for Transport is that it concerns the total closure of public transport in Norway's densely populated area. I am sorry that I was wrong about the name. It is clear that, as is now the situation with regard to the departures of the NSB, the irritation is very high among commuters and daily users, who are the most faithful users of the collective service. I would like to remind you that the State has extinguished more than NOK 7 billion of the airline's debt. This means that the state must exploit the large investment made in public transport in this area to meet the needs of users. Will the Council of State make contact with local authorities in order to maximise the closure of public transport in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1769	It is very important for this government and for the Council of State responsible for public transport to have good cooperation with local authorities. Therefore, in my further work, I would like to stress that I should have good contact and dialogue with those who have a local responsibility to facilitate this. I would also like to add that the issue of passenger traffic on the air train has been settled before. Aplan Viak and Ernst & Young carried out extensive analyses of the problem of this issue in 2000–2001 and 2004. I can get back to those results if you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1776	Investment in rail is very expensive. Then it is important to make the best use of them. Will the State Council review the total railway offer in this area, so as to maximise the use of capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1781	The priorities that I set out for my work on developing a good rail service in Norway are in the national transport plan, and my aim is to keep to those priorities in the best possible way, so that citizens can get the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1790	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The switchover and competition on the road side means that we will save 850 million annually. kr to more and better roads. Contest launching of the Gjøvik Railway, where a subsidiary of the NSB won the tender with more than 30 pst. better offer for over 10 pst. lower price, shows a high potential also on the railway. The NSB is itself a competitor and considers that competition has improved the company and given passengers a better offer. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to stop modernisation and competition on the railways?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1799	The government wants to modernise the railway system. NSB AS shall provide more attractive services to travellers, and this shall be done through an increasingly efficient production. Further competition is not the best means of modernising the railways. There are major synergies and network benefits associated with a comprehensive and integrated operation and the production of passenger transport services by train. By subdivide the aggregate production of NSB AS into a traffic package, which will then be exposed to competition, there is a risk of losing the network and synergistic benefits, e.g. advantages associated with having a large professional environment around rolling stock. This will affect the country that buys and the travellers who use the train services. In order to achieve the central transport policy objectives of the Government, including: aim at developing the NSB as a company and modernising and strengthening the railway system, instead of competing, I will use the direct purchase agreements between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on passenger services as an essential tool. Through this, I propose to ensure a still strong modernisation without having the negative consequences associated with the launch of competition. An important starting point is, of course, that we require NSB AS to provide attractive transport services through the most rational and efficient operation possible. The Ministry of Transport’s four-year framework direct purchase agreement from the NSB expires in 2006. The work on negotiating a new agreement, which will be longer than today's, is already under way. I would like to have a new direct purchase agreement with the NSB that provides travellers with an even better offer than they have today. The Ministry of Transport will be aware of the quality and extent of the transport supply and the capacity of the NSB to improve productivity. I want to discuss a form of agreement that makes a larger part of the purchase volume more incentive-based and target-driven, that there is a expectation that efficiency will be better, and that it will be more open to customization to customers’ wishes. In the context of the contract design, the Ministry will build on the premises of other government agencies operating in direct purchasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1808	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I refer to something she said about negative consequences. The research I've done shows that both customers, those who run this and those who work there are very satisfied, so I'd like to ask you to know more fully what negative consequences the council refers to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1815	Postponement of competition means that a pusher demands for efficiency. There is no doubt that in some areas this could lead to a danger to security. It has been shown in other countries. Rumors like one from other countries show that a few places reverse the attempts to privatize – we should call it – that have been done, precisely because one sees that there are negative consequences that one did not see when a set started an extensive privatisation and competitive postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1820	I thank again the Council of State for the answer, and I have heard the Council of State talk about this with certainty several times. My question is: does not the Council of State trust other than the public when it comes to ensuring security?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1825	Governments have great confidence that private companies too will take care of security requirements, but in competition, private companies will be forced to lower prices in order to secure supply. I don't say that they always do, but reports from other countries show that it can be a security issue when it comes to reducing the price, it gets in a competition to get an offer where there are many who fight for the same offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1835	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘9. November is the anniversary of the crystal night of the Nazis against the Jews. What initiatives will the Council of State take to monitor Norwegian students’ knowledge of the Holocaust and to ensure the continuation of this important historical knowledge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1844	I am very concerned that Norwegian students should know about the Nazis' abuse and persecution of the Jews. As Minister of Knowledge, I see it as a key task to equip students with knowledge of the fight against racism, discrimination and Nazism. Knowledge of history is important to prevent genocide and racism being repeated in the system. All Norwegian students shall have knowledge of Jewish extermination and the general abuse of the Nazis. The school works on the theme of human rights, democracy and combating discrimination and racism in many ways and within many disciplines. Knowledge-rich students who think critically and show social commitment and care are a good starting point. The work against racism and discrimination is integrated into the comprehensive and long-term work done by the school to ensure a good and inclusive working environment. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to increase students’ specific knowledge of Holocaust. Different educational arrangements, network resources, teaching resources and a collection of school experiences have been developed that work well with this. I can mention that every year the school marks the anniversary of the Holocaust on January 27th. It is used for knowledge dissemination and awareness-raising. The Benjamin Prize is awarded this day. The prize is in memory of Benjamin Hermansen and is awarded to a school that has distinguished itself in the work against racism. The price has become a fine mark of the Holocaust Day, drawing the lines between past and present, and engaging the students. The Directorate-General for Education has a book called the ‘Road of Holocaust’ in preparation. The book is a collaboration with White buses and Active Peace Travels, and contains short facts about the Holocaust as well as poems made after approx. 30 school-class trips to concentration camps. This book is soon to be completed, and it will be sent out to all secondary schools. The fact part will also be posted online. There are many institutions and organisations working towards the school in this area, such as the Red Cross, the Falstad Centre, the Archive Foundation, etc. The Education Directorate facilitates the coordination of these efforts. The Directorate and the organisations are now working on the establishment of regional peace centres, so that students throughout the country are given the opportunity to visit. Schools work well with these organisations, and I want to encourage even closer cooperation. It is important that all good forces cooperate to make targeted and effective efforts. I would like to highlight in particular the Centres for the Study of the Holocaust and the position of life synorities in Norway, called the Holocaust Centre, and their work. Work is mainly funded by the Ministry of Education and Research. The Centre shall work for increased reflection and insight into themes such as Holocaust and other genocides, wars and human rights issues, and minority issues. The Centre opens its doors to the audience on 23 August 2006 and has its own teaching department. Different visits will be provided for school classes, the development of an online knowledge base and different teacher courses. I have asked the Education Directorate to carry out a review of the studies available on the attitudes of Norwegian students towards Nazism and racism, as well as international studies in this area. This material will provide the basis for an assessment of the need to re-evaluate the knowledge status of Norwegian students. However, we do not have the basis to believe that the denial of Jewish extermination by young people is increasing, and we have the support of the Holocaust Centre in this assessment. However, the important thing for me today is the steps we are taking to improve the knowledge of students and teachers. I can assure the representative Dørum and everyone else that this work has the highest priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1863	The background to the question has a sad side, namely that the Anti-racist Centres, White Buses and the Holocaust Centre have to think about. The good side is that the council responds both with commitment and with strong will to do something. I think that's very important. I would like to underline the measures referred to by the Council of State. I'll ask him to consider very carefully, even though he'll now get someone to review what kind of knowledge we have, actually to make an up-to-date study. I think, unfortunately, he may be right that the knowledge base is not better. But I think we need the alarm that's in such a review, not for the Council of State and I to rival about it, but for us to be able to mobilize the best in our society together, because here it's like every generation has to fight to fight the evil -- over and over again. So I'm going to ask the Council of State to strongly consider, even though he's doing a knowledge review, actually to look at this with a new knowledge study just in the light of the fact that we're going to mobilize for a new generation and a new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1870	Let me start a little unusual and thank Dørum for the question, because I appreciate the fact that this matter is raised again in public. The involvement of the doorway around this is price-worthy, and we share exactly the same basic attitude, that it is necessary at any time and especially on this day that the public be made aware of the atrocities that occurred on the crystal night back in 1938. I think it's a good opportunity to say from the Minister of Knowledge and from our government that we should do what we can, and what is in our power, that new generations of young people should of course know about these monsters, and that as a nation we have a duty to learn new generations about this in order to prevent the kind of totalitarian thinking that Nazism represents. Of course, I'm going to go through the material that the Education Directorate will present to the Department, and if there's any least we can do to strengthen knowledge of this in Norwegian school, Dørum will be assured that we will. As I know today, there is no basis for saying that the knowledge of Norwegian youth has diminished. But if it suggests that that might be the situation, we'll do what we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1877	It is such that we meet this matter with common seriousness, and that is unfortunately necessary. Even tonight, for the sixth time, I'm going to attend the seventh event in Inner Eastfold, where the Russian at two secondary schools in Mysen and Askim, just because the Nynazis marched in Inner Eastfold a few years ago, every year on the crystal night day has gathered about. 400–500 school students to use the situation, to develop the story, to learn from it, to measure it against the present and to say that there are some attitudes we don't want to take forward. Even I see this as a very affordable and positive action that is taking place among young people. It's become a little tradition, and it's also become a little tradition that I participate. It's my handshake to a new generation to do that. I just mention this measure as an example for the Minister of Knowledge, and would like to thank him for his proper and proper answers. But I would say that I think it might be pedagogical to get a new investigation, simply because it gives us an opportunity to re-enforce all the measures that he described in a very proper and thorough way in his response to me. I think, unfortunately, that attitudes are not inherited. They have to be won over and over again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1886	The last thing I want to say, of course, is that I agree with the heart. It is not that the fight against totalitarian thinking is won once and for all. You have to fight every day wherever you meet it. In a democracy, this is the very foundation. It applies both in this hall and outside this hall. The most important thing I see as the knowledge through school, through parents, through teams and associations, and I think it's an affordable measure that the representative Dørum here refers to. It's very positive. The fact that he, by being a wholesaler, draws and participates in this is positive. It's an attitude-creating work that, of course, is infinitely valuable. The important thing for me is that this knowledge is in school, that the school takes it seriously, and that you spend time on it. We have many markers, which I have already mentioned in my answer. If more knowledge is needed in school, I see it as central to me as a minister of knowledge. So, of course, if it turns out that knowledge is too poor among young people in general, and that's what the directorate is going to do for us now, show us, of course, we're going to do something. But I have to say that the most important thing at the end is not a study of knowledge. Ultimately, the most important thing will be the knowledge of Nazism and racism and the abuses that occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1901	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. ‘The Government has notified that the maximum price in the nursery is to be reduced to NOK 2 250 per year. from 1 January 2006. Will the Government maintain today’s possibility of taking parental payments in excess of the maximum price if the quality of the nursery is otherwise affected, even after 1 January 2006? ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1910	In the Soria Moria statement, the government says that we should introduce a new maximum limit of $2,250 per year. month from 1 January 2006 and NOK 1 750 per month. the month at the latest by the end of 2007. This will mean a significant reduction in parental pay and a clear improvement in relation to the draft government budget proposed by the Bondevik II Government, which proposes an increase of the maximum limit of DKK2 830 per year. months. With regard to the issue of criteria for exemption from the maximum level, the Government will provisionally continue its current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1917	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the Christian People's Party, we are engaged in both expanding enough space for everyone, getting a lower price and getting a good quality in terms of pedagogical competence and adult density. How will the Council of State and the Government continue to ensure that the quality is not hit when it comes to expanding even faster and bringing the price down even more? Isn't quality the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1922	Of course, I agree with the questioner that quality in kindergarten is important. This is why we will not, of course, take any measures that may impair quality – on the contrary. The Soria Moria Declaration highlights the pedagogical basis of kindergarten very clearly. That's why we have also chosen to transfer the kindergarten administratively to my department, where it belongs naturally, as a voluntary start to a long educational course. We know that it is possible to build out places further and reduce the price, while maintaining the quality. The story that we have behind us, where SV and also other parties here in the Stortinget in the opposition were given a major pediatric bet, partly against the will of the Government, shows that this is possible. The quality of kindergartens has not deteriorated, even though it has been the biggest investment in kindergartens ever in Norwegian history over the last three years. I am very proud to have contributed, and I am also proud that the government that was then set up, the Bondevik II government, followed up the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1931	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that today he says that he will continue the derogation that allows kindergartens to take a higher parental payment in very special cases and in consultation with the parents in the nursery. It is important that strict criteria are met in order to provide for this possibility. But can we be sure that in the future there will be an understanding in the Government that during transition periods kindergartens may have higher expenses, higher costs, and that they can then have a guarantee from the Government that it will be understood when a further builds the max. price system?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1936	The derogation provided for in the law is that in exceptional cases one may exempt from the maximum price. The reason why it should be in very special cases is, of course, that a general access to this would make the maximum price not real. We are prepared to continue this until further notice, but there will be an ongoing assessment in the ministry of it. Today, this must be anchored in the parent group, and if one disagrees with this, it must be appealed to the county council. We believe that the procedure is satisfactory, and we cannot say today that there is any reason to change the provision. But it is clear that a government that has kindergartens as high on the agenda as we have must always assess the law under which kindergartens are placed. What I can assure the representative of Tørresdal is that the commitment that I, not least the Minister of Education, have for kindergartens should be continued during a revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1947	‘I refer to the Government’s political platform, Chapter 17, Immigration and Integration. It is proposed to establish waiting receptions for those who have received a final rejection, but have not yet returned. What is the difference between the waiting reception, as proposed here, and the already proposed exit centre in Lier?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1954	The concept of waiting reception was used by SV's representatives Heikki Holmås, Geir-Ketil Hansen and Karin Andersen when, in October last year, they promoted a private proposal to establish a waiting reception for people with final rejection of the asylum application, but who have not left the country. All three current governmental parties supported this proposal. After first saying that it was not desirable to create this kind of state housing, the government of Bondevik II came back with a decision to set up what they called an exit centre. For the three government parties, waiting reception is an incorporated concept, as reflected in the government statement of Soria Moria. There is no difference in content between an exit centre and a waiting reception. In both cases, there is an open and voluntary residence offer to persons who have until now been subject to the system of non-residence in ordinary asylum recipients following a final rejection of the asylum application. I want to continue the work on the concrete project that the previous government started, i.e. the establishment of a waiting reception in the Buskerud Civil Defence Camp in the municipality of Lier, with the economic consequences that were the basis for this. This should be a careful offer of food and lodging and information related to return. There shall be dedicated on-site health services. In order to combat crime and to ensure that employees at the waiting reception are always aware of who is in the waiting reception, access control is provided. I want the waiting reception to be set up as soon as possible. Until a waiting reception is opened, the Government will allow persons who have until now been subject to the waste regime to remain in ordinary asylum facilities. So this means that no one is going to be thrown out of the receptions. In order to signal that final refusals to apply for asylum are still expected to leave the country, decisions on the withdrawal of residence offers in the reception of asylum should be taken. However, it shall be clear that decisions shall not be taken until the opening of the waiting reception. Persons who have already been expelled or who have travelled from reception in the light of the loss of the reception site may also receive a new temporary residence offer in an asylum recipient until a waiting reception is established. These must register with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. Those currently exempted from the waste regime shall continue to be offered a place in ordinary asylum recipients. They shall not be transferred to waiting reception. This applies to lone minors, families with children, persons cooperating on voluntary return, and persons with different diseases who, after an individual assessment, continue to live in ordinary recipients of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1967	I thank you for a good and complementary answer, but I still have to note that in terms of the term, SV has thus been able to use the word, while the Workers' Party has had an impact on the content. For it is such that a majority in the Committee in the nomination of Document No. The SV's 8 proposal described the exit centre, which the then municipal minister had proposed in the form of a letter to the committee, while a majority including the Workers' Party and the then government parties clearly indicated that they did not want an exit centre with the new legal rights proposed by SV to have those living here. So I want to ask the Council of State to confirm that this proposal is substantively similar to what the previous government has proposed, while the term is SVS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1972	What I can confirm is that the waiting reception that we're about to establish in Lier, the content of the government wants it to have. What is the situation there is that we in the Government have assessed the question of whether we should leave the proposition of the previous government on the establishment of exit centres in the Stortinget. We have chosen to do that. That means, therefore, that the Government agrees with the content, but as I have understood the representatives of the government parties, in line with the government statement, the Soria Moria declaration, in the course of the process in Stortinget, the name will be converted into a waiting reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1979	The most surprising part of the answer, however, was that the Council of State here stated that those who reside illegally in Norway and who have actively opposed their departure themselves should be welcomed back into the asylum recipients. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if he will take action – when they report to the UDI, which he outlined in his reply – to get them to volunteer to work for a return trip. Because it's not that these are irreversible. They are irretrievable because they themselves oppose the return, while those who are really irretrievable already have an offer to live in reception facilities. There's never been any discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e1984	That the answer is particularly surprising, I find it hard to understand, because it was also in the previous government's position, which I understood Bent Höie was very pleased with, that the people we were unable to get out of the country because they did not cooperate were not just going to create problems for the municipalities. They were to be offered a state scheme called an exit centre. I believe that is exactly the logic behind what I have said, that until this departure centre is in place, we must nevertheless take into account the situation of the municipalities. That is the reason for establishing the exit centre, and then the logical consequence is that those who until now have been expelled must be allowed to be on reception until the exit centre/waiting reception is clear, so that the situation of municipalities is taken into account in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2000	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 22 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2009	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A study published in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal of 3 November 2005 shows that there are significant gender differences in the treatment of heart disease in Norway and that women receive less treatment than men. What will the Council of State do to put an end to this discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2018	I want to state immediately that we should not have such differences. Regional health enterprises are responsible for providing equivalent services to the population of the region. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has established in the order document to health businesses for the current year that equivalent treatment is assumed for the same types of plagues for women and men. Special challenges related to women’s or men’s health must be met with adequate knowledge and resources. It is not acceptable that women and men with the same type of heart disease are offered different types of investigation and treatment. The government will follow up the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s female health strategy where knowledge-raising and improved patient treatment are important elements. The Government's Declaration of Accession states that a nationwide research programme on women's health is to be launched. This is important. I am pleased that research in health companies is providing information that is important for improving the health provision of the population. The gender and gender perspective is absolutely necessary to achieve the objective of optimum treatment provision for all. Regional health companies must therefore take the consequences of new research into medical practice, and I have assured them that they will follow this up, including the latest information. Generally speaking, differences in the pattern of disease between the sexes are balanced. Women now account for a greater proportion of patients with heart attacks. This is probably related to a change in lifestyle. It may, therefore, take some time for incorporated gender differences to be changed, both in textbooks, in education and in the approach to patients. But I repeat that there should be no discrimination between women and men, and I will personally follow this very closely. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has female health as its own field of activity, and a strategy plan for women's health was presented in St.meld. No 16 for 2002–2003, entitled ‘Resept for a healthier Norway’. The female health strategy shall provide for increased research and medical treatment. Therefore, the gender perspective should be central to healthcare, both in terms of research, policy design, prevention strategies and healthcare. Follow-up is concentrated in two areas in particular. One is to include a gender perspective in all activities where relevant. The second is to focus specifically on medical treatment and the provision of healthcare to women. This has been achieved through the signals given to regional health enterprises and to the Norwegian Research Council and defined in the Council’s new programming plans. The Norwegian Research Council has produced a progress report for research — carried out through the activities of the Council — on women’s health, pointing to the need for further research in a number of areas. We're also going to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2033	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I trust that the Minister of Health and Welfare will follow this up – the medical discrimination that has emerged from this study is very serious. It shows that there is a systematic under-treatment of women with heart attack. There is good reason to believe that it also includes other parts of healthcare, and that is unacceptable. I am pleased that the new government will follow up on research on female health, as the Stortinget has repeatedly been involved, and for which the Cooperative Government has also provided the basis. But I want to ask the Council of State if she can repeat and clarify the responsibility of health companies and professionals to follow up on equivalent treatment in her governance paper to regional health companies. This is obviously about attitudes. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the professional community to help change attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2040	The answer to that is a clear yes. I'm going to use all the channels I have, and make sure to give clear signals that women and men are going to be treated equally in our healthcare system. This applies in all areas, of course also in relation to what has emerged in the last few days. Because it's serious when it comes to women getting worse medicine and worse treatment because they're women. I agree with Mr Sjöli that this must also be about attitudes. So, unfortunately, mind-building work is absolutely necessary. I also think one has to look at the education bit. Then a person has to get into it with attitudes and work around it, and that more people have to realize that the symptoms may be different for women and men. It's about different bodies, and there may also be different symptoms of similar diseases. So here my department – and I personally – comes to do what we can to follow up and prevent inequalities between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2047	I am satisfied with the answer I have received from the Minister of Health and Care, and I have, as I said, confidence that this will be followed up. This is, as I said, a question that Stortinget has also been concerned about for many, many years. I would like the Council of State to ensure that the Storting gets a complete review of the measures put in place and that will be implemented, in order to improve women's health and treatment. There's a lot of commitment here in the house in terms of these questions, and I hope, as I said, that the Council of State can orientate the Storting in a matter of her own, or how she chooses to do it, for example. during the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2054	I am aware that the Storting has had, and has, a great commitment to this matter as well, and I would like to inform the Storting more specifically about what we are doing, and what we intend to do, in this important area. I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2059	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-09.ana.ud642e2070	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
