ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e54	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e65	With the enormous media attention that this case has had, I almost expected a full press hub today, but it may be that Norwegian journalists do not get up early on a Saturday. This case, these MP3 players, which otherwise look like this. [[The representative shows a player]] The Progress Party has had the same vision since the beginning of the debate, and we are now pleased that a joint committee disagrees with the Government. It's a little special that the government parties disagree with the government, but it's nice. All parties are now opening up to transfer legally purchased CD tracks to MP3 players. The difference lies in the fact that the majority, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party, have a technology neutral formulation, which also takes into account other technologies, while the Right and Christian People's Party specifically links their proposal to the CD and MP3. I think the majority is most foresight. At least we have solved this problem. I record that in one of the debate programmes I was in, News of the Day, Athens, the Right Olemic Thommessen said that the MP3 case is a detail. I think it's an eye-catching statement that something that affects maybe half a million Nordics, and most of the Norwegian youth, is a detail, but it gets to be the Right View. The press has baptized this law the MP3 Act, but the copyright law is about much, much more. It is about radio, TV, music, books, data, mobile phones, images, etc., etc. It is about the phase-in of an EU directive, and it is about the fact that we have to deal with conventions and agreements made back to the 1880s. Many areas are widely agreed on, for example: license for the use of works in-house in enterprises, where there is an extension, admission of broadcasting broadcasts within health institutions, special needs of disabled persons, how to deal with Internet cafés, collecting works, the right to quote in Section 22 and Section 23, the licence agreement for broadcasting and copyright in the same way as between heirs, where there has been a reasonable change and liberalisation of the law. But that's also the ratio there's disagreement about. The Code of Practice is intended to deal with art, business, politics, law and consumers, and then it is important to balance the interests – the interests of the industry and the consumer. The government's proposal was heavy in the direction of the industry, while it is now more balanced with the proposal that has a majority in the case. In the debate, some have said, almost with contempt, that this has become a consumer law. I think that's a little scary. When you produce music, pictures, books, etc., you actually have to deal with the users. But it's not a consumer law. Nor is it an author's law, but it is a law that balances industry with the consumer and regulates this relationship in a good way. There has been a storm of protests, especially in relation to what the majority have said about the public sector. Much of this is due to the fact that the Right and Christian People's Party went out with a press release before comments and suggestions from the majority were posted on the Internet. This press release contained a number of serious errors, including: that we would legalize the theft and rand of copyright. This has got stuck and, among other things. ended up with some ads from Kopinor, where there are also serious errors. Otherwise, I notice that Kopinor must have very good advice, as they can afford such ads. In the case of schools, libraries and other public enterprises using the Internet, it is in short the view of the majority that works published on the Internet without user restrictions should be freely used in non-commercial enterprises. In these cases, the rightholder considers that he has given implicit consent for further use. In fact, there are a lot of people who spend things on the Internet to make the public use of it. It could be teachers, researchers, private individuals, politicians, etc. The position of the majority does not suggest that municipalities and county councils should be free to provide everything on the Internet without the permission of the author, if it is protected. In this area, we say clearly: ‘The majority see no need to change current practice...’ We distance ourselves from the very strong and innocuous statements of the Norwegian scholarly association of authors and translators and from the Copinos, which are reproduced in the media and in an ad form. As regards the public sector, the conclusion is that the author who has protected the material online shall have money for what he has done, but shall not have money for the other person to spend for free exploitation. I hope we can put an end to the misleading information presented in this case, with this clarification. When it comes to libraries, we've also had a lot of fun. The majority believe that it should be allowed to print material that has been legally digitised by the libraries, and not just read them on screen, as the Government agrees. Digitalisation can only take place according to the strict guidelines given by the Government in the regulation, and the majority say that printing can be taken on the same line as photocopies from the same work. The proposal thus does not involve any rules for printing other than for copying. This will include, inter alia: be able to ensure that works which have ceased to be produced, e.g.: an old, worn-out building book there may be only one copy of it, still available for use by genealogical reviewers in the libraries. It shall not be a book in the ordinary course of trade. So the claim that the libraries should be able to print up books that are in the ordinary trade, in a bunch and distribute them, is wrong. It's a consumer-friendly law in several ways. In the case of copy barriers and technical protection systems, the majority imposes tough requirements on the industry. Among other things, the industry must equip its products with systems that do not prevent the ability of private users to acquire the work in a relevant manner. You have to be able to use them in the car, in the cabin, at home and on MP3 players. We also impose strict requirements for protection systems to be effective. But I also have to make it clear that with regard to public rights of use, opportunities to protect, and opportunities to remove copyright barriers, the activities of libraries, etc., the majority in all its comments and proposals rest on the fact that it is about works that have been legally acquired. It is still prohibited to download or steal movies, CDs or music from the Internet where it is unlawfully posted. This is an important clarification. Although we in the Progress Party are very pleased with the law, there are also themes where the Progress Party is in minority. On page 43, in the context of section 45b, the Progress Party is alone in defending the possibilities of radio stations and businesses, and there is actually a bill change from the majority – all but the Progress Party – that will lead to a 50 pst. cost increase for P4, Channel 24, nearby radios, discotheques, pubs, etc. playing music. From HSH it is also said that there will be similar price increases for hairdressers, grocery stores, etc. that uses music and has a radio on it. The Progress Party will have a closer look at this before a decision is taken, while the majority have taken the line of going straight ahead. We're also in minority, along with the SV and the Center Party, in a proposal that would break down some of Microsoft's and Apple's power in terms of media players. This has been a mixed experience, with two months of debate and investigation, with many requests to the committee. But it's been an interesting matter, and it's going to be a law that includes a lot of the social life that we're going to deal with in the future. We believe from the majority that we have come to a good and balanced law. I would like to take up the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e110	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e113	When it was decided that the copyright law would be debated at something as unusual as a Saturday meeting, some of us were somewhat concerned that the important copyright law would be passed without it receiving the attention it deserves. However, we have tried to do something about the last few days, and I have to say that I think we have succeeded well. Attention is irreprehensible. It's an important law we're going to adopt. It's an important day. When the Workers' Party was started in Arendal in 1887, trade unions were behind it. One of the main reasons was to ensure that the workers were legally paid for their own work. They needed a political tool, because many of the rights are influenced by political decisions. In the very first Circulaere of the Board of Directors of the ‘United Norwegian Workers’ Party’ it says: "We can only work through our legitimate claims if we are able to have full influence on the legislation and appropriations in the exercise of the right to vote." In fact, this law is a step forward in the fight that got its expression in 1887, a fight for people to get paid for the work they do, and could live off their work. A lot of young people, and perhaps not so few adults, could probably dream of free access to all sorts of music, watching movies from all over the world without getting in the wallet and getting their textbooks for the studies without having to pay. It had become a short-lived joy. Musicians, composers, filmmakers, and writers wanted to have their revenues drastically reduced. Creative, creative work would be replaced by work that fed on the table and roof over the head. It would be empty on the CD shelves and white on the cinematographic dishes. Therefore, there is no conflict between users and rightholders, but a fundamental community. The creators depend on listeners, viewers, readers who have access to it created in a simple and reasonable way. Users depend on the creators, that they have an income base that allows them to continue to create new ghosts. A new copyright shall ensure this, and there is a broad consensus that this should be the case. Therefore, most of this law is also adopted by a broad majority. The applicant's rapporteur has made a statement about the suspension. Most of the time, the committee is grouped together. On some points, however, it has been necessary for the Committee to adjust the law somewhat. It happens on two points. One is about the libraries. That was the point made by the President-in-Office of the Council. The other applies to transmission from CD to MP3 even when there is a copy lock. The ministry has always insisted that this would be contrary to the EU directive, but here we have to note that it has not even been possible to convince its own party traps. Some fear that the new law paragraph may open for copying between other formats. However, from the Workers' Party and SV's side, the comments that say that the new legislative wording is about the transfer from CD to MP3 are an exhaustive list. It is also worth stressing that the Workers' Party and the government parties are also united on the legal protection of the DRM. So the question of the use of material on the Internet. Let me first say the very obvious, namely that if copyright is posted online without the consent of the rightholder, i.e. an unlawful interpretation, the work cannot be used, either by individuals or by public institutions, in any legal way. It will be an important task in the future to contribute to the investigation and closure of infringements of the law in this area, especially where this type of crime is committed for the purpose of winning. We have to fight the idea of a different type of morality in the Internet from in the real world. There is no difference between stealing online and stealing in a store. So the question of public use of copyright on the Internet. Here I have the definite impression that there has been some uncertainty and confusion about what the majority of the committee actually thinks. To the extent that the majority has contributed to such ambiguities, this is an opportunity to clarify. That others have also contributed to the uncertainty, I will come back to. Let me start with the following: the majority don't change a single paragraph of the law, they don't move a single comma in the law that would affect or change the legal situation in this area. Thus, how the Right Judiciary-educated Olemic Thommess in a press release from the Right can claim that the majority ‘consisted on a decision that makes dramatic interference with authors’ rights’ is difficult to understand. In legal cases, Odelstinget takes decisions in the form of legal paragraphs, and the legal text that we adopt in this area is identical to the proposition's proposal. So we're left with the notes. Notes are important preprocessors of a law. It is therefore important that they are clear and understood in accordance with the intentions of the legislator. To the extent that comments have created ambiguity, therefore, what the majority now say in this debate, which is also an important precursor to the law, must be based on how they should be understood. The law adopted and the observations accompanying it fully safeguard the right of rightholders to remuneration. No one, including the public sector, can use the spirit of others without remuneration, unless the rightholder himself believes that the copyright system should be used free of charge. No specific marking is required for copyright works to be protected. All copyright is initially protected as long as the rightholder himself has not lifted the protection. The only thing you don't have to pay for is what the rightholder has explicitly or implicitly stated should be free of charge. In particular, there is one sentence some have wondered: ‘The majority believe that copyright works, including Internet printouts to a reasonable extent, should be capable of being used in non-commercial activities, such as municipalities and county councils, without being subject to consent and/or payment.’ Some have believed that this gives the public sector the right to use everything from the Internet without paying. That's wrong. The phrase refers only to what is explicitly or implicitly offered for free use. It is clear when you read the next sentence in the setting, which deals with what is not available for free use: ‘The use of protected material is decided in negotiations’. Some have also been unsure of the sentence that ‘when works are lawfully posted on the Internet, the rightholders have given tacit consent to the use of non-commercial works’. Well, if we now, after the last few days of debate, should have written a note where all the premises were included, it would have been as follows: Once a work has been lawfully posted on the Internet, a silent consent has been given by the rightholders for the non-commercial use of others, provided that the rightholder has not reserved anything else. Fees shall be paid for the use unless the copyright holder considers that the copyright authority is entitled to use it free of charge. The note expresses the Storting's view on how implicit consents can be understood under the applicable law. The majority does not support the Government's understanding of the same question as expressed in the proposition. But at the same time – and this is important – neither government nor greatness has the last word, because it is an understanding of agreements. Disputes about contractual understanding shall be settled by the courts. This means the majority. We also meant that when we gave the setting late Monday evening. A few hours after the cancellation, a press release came from the government parties. It says in this one: ‘The opposition opens up the possibility that in the future the public sector will not pay for works posted on the Internet. The authors are thus deprived of the right to payment or to consent to such use at all.» This isn't true. That's not what the law says. That's not what the comments say. That's not what the majority advocates. The Minister of Culture goes even further. According to the newspaper on June 2nd, she believes it is going to be completely wrong for the municipalities not to pay authors and women for the material they use. The Minister for Culture says: ‘They pay for electricity and houses. But they don't have to pay for culture." In the Cultural News of NRK P2 on 31 May she goes even further and says that ‘active in the field of culture should be able to live by what they produce and stock. But here the majority advocates a law that allows all those who lose their rights to be used as wild. Is it a law? So we do not have alternative proposals on these points. Can be used as a wild game? Where in the world does the Minister of Culture have cover for it? The Minister of Culture shows that there is no need for a culture culture to participate in a cultural debate. The parties to the government have crossed the border of propriety for political debate. And when Norway’s Minister of Culture contributes to spreading such untruths, others too may become insecure. In ads in the newspapers yesterday, you could read about concerned artists. And let me answer the following: Morten Krogvold will still have the right to determine his own pictures.No schools will be able to supply themselves freely with the texts of Tove Nilsen.The Stortinget will not deprive Arne Nordheim of the right to its own music works. An advertisement could read that the majority ‘removes from the rightholders the right to decide on the exploitation of their own works and to receive remuneration for their own efforts’. That's not right. Everyone shall be remunerated in accordance with today's rules. The rightholder shall continue to have control over his works. The rightholder is fully entitled to impose on himself the restrictions he or she wishes, even in the case of such non-commercial use in the public sector. The advertising money could have been better spent on the remuneration of membership organisations. It's going to be exciting to hear if the Minister of Culture is going to repeat his claims in the media from the Parliament's pulpit after she's heard the majority herself tell what the majority thinks. If we have a Minister of Culture who insists on interpreting the law of the disadvantages of rightholders, contrary to what the legislator himself believes, it will be very serious. The rightholders are at least not served by such conduct and by such a minister of culture. I have little faith that the government parties will put themselves on a fairer line. I think we're going to meet the most indecent election campaign in Norway since 1930. The false claims of the government parties on the majority's positions are part of this election campaign. On the other hand, I have greater faith in the remuneration organisations. Of course, they may continue to insist on an interpretation of the law which requires the rightholders not to have paid, not to have the right to consult, and that the public sector should be able to use copyright on the network free of charge, contrary to what the majority themselves say. I would be happy if I were the KS or the Council of Higher Education and could hit the table with the remuneration organisations' definition of the law, if that's what they mean; then the negotiations would be over in a relatively short time. But they can also build on what the legislator actually says in this debate, that public sector remuneration remains firm, that there is still full freedom to limit the use of their own mental works, and that there is no free use of copyright without the rightholder himself having wanted it to do so. I recommend the last option. That is what we mean, and that is what we have meant all along. The law shall guarantee authors their due remuneration. At the same time, we know that this is an area of constant change. The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party will therefore make the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the law in the context of the notified review of the copyright law, in particular with a view to ensuring that the interests of rightholders are properly safeguarded.’ If there were still to be confusion, remove the last doubt! The Workers’ Party will also support the SV’s proposal to monitor the size of prints of digitised works and to ensure that rightholders maintain their remuneration independently of technology. This round will show that the Committee is in fact united on the important thing, namely that the law should guarantee rightholders the right to have their own copyright and ensure their legitimate remuneration for the use of those copyrights by others. The disagreements we have are factual differences, from the disunity that has been produced through the media over the last few days. The most central point of disagreement concerns this with implicit public sector consent for non-commercial use, well to note if no other reservation has been made, and of course with full remuneration rights. That's what the disagreement is about – and nothing more. Let me therefore conclude where I began, quoting the conclusion of the very first Circular from the Board of Directors of the United Norwegian Workers' Party: «... then let disagreements about this or a hint, which is basically Smateing, compared to our great meal: a happy, sorrowless and therefore truly human existence for workers, let us, we say, this Smateing be set aside, let a common Brotherhood encircle us, let us stand hand in hand and fight for our great cause.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e230	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e233	It was interesting to hear the post of the representative Giske. But let it be quite clear that it is the majority who have created uncertainty and uncertainty about this matter. I think the leader of today's business today gives a very good description of the situation. The Breathwork Act is the foundation for all the production of copyright in our country. It is the foundation of art and culture and the foundation of a rapidly growing economic sector. A free and living spirit requires that art and culture are easily accessible to the individual of us. Spiritual works meet with the audience, and it is therefore in everyone's interest that the public can use and live with spiritism without the ongoing need to deal with the exclusive rights of rightholders. Here lies our dilemma and our challenge as legislators: the balance between free access on the one hand and securing the livelihood of the country's rightholders on the other. Copy and distribution are currently dramatically altered in relation to the past. A copy is currently an identical representation, not a black copy from a copy machine. A copy of music will be identical to the original recording, and distribution can be done with a keypress to almost any number. These are challenges we face in the entire Western world. Heavy parts of the copyright industry operate on international markets. It is therefore important to have international regimes that justify abuse that can easily undermine authors’ income base. Norway is of course part of a number of treaties and international agreements in this area. Along with the value of Nordic legislative cooperation in this area, this provides important guidance for what we should open up in our country. The task we're facing in this case of law is demanding balances where the implications are many. The debate on the subject before the debate shows this to a full extent. Many have experienced this discussion as difficult to understand, and it is obvious to most that the majority have not seen the consequences of the content either. The government has submitted a proposal that continues the long lines of Norwegian copyright also into a new era. The Ministry has rightly gained recognition from as many as all competent professional bodies and, in the opinion of the Right, has in all respects come to a favourable balance between rightholders and consumers. Then the government gets a pass for almost the entire legal text. Only in one point are changes made, i.e. in relation to the increasingly plentiful MP3. It's positive that all the parties on Stortinget have concluded that we should also be able to use the CDs we buy in the future, as we're used to, even if they're equipped with a copy lock. The Right and Christian People's Party has here promoted a proposal we believe lies within the EU directive. But the margins are small, and when we cannot support the majority's proposals on this point, it is because we do not believe such a decision will stand up to the European institutions. The majority’s proposals can therefore provide a short-term joy to the public. The most perceptive aspect of this debate is not what is expressed by concrete proposals for decisions. What is alarming is some of the comments and thereby political signals on which the majority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, have gathered. In particular, I would like to comment on what these parties believe to be the situation in the public sector, in the higher education sector and in the library sector. What is alarming, which has led to the right and the majority of the artists' organisations reacting so strongly, is that on several of these points, there are later to break the traditions of Norwegian law. In general, there is an impression that there is now a political majority for conversions which clearly means an attack on individual rights and which is moving towards a more collective approach. This will weaken the position of rightholders in relation to the future negotiations that need to be brought into the wake of technological developments. The majority have expressed themselves through very unclear observations that raise many more questions than they answer. For example, what are the consequences? to introduce the terms ‘commercial’ and ‘non-commercial’ as a limit to what may be required for? This is a central point of the majority. It has been claimed in the debate that we, who have criticised the signals on free use for the public sector and within the higher education system, have not based the majority's premises on the interpretation, and therefore we have misunderstood them completely. This is certainly not an easy task either. I have also seen that the representative Giske has needed clarification. The notes are inconsistent and poor, if justified at all. It is not just the opinion of the Right, but it is a collective cultural life that has justified its strong concern. The majority indicate that higher education institutions and universities are free to use published works because the authors at the time they released the work must have implicitly accepted the continued use of the work. This is a completely new legal opinion, for which, in the view of the Right, the Department and the heavy legal expertise, there is no basis. In particular, we ask questions on the Right-wing side as to whether this is compatible with the three-step test of the Berne Convention, which specifies the interference with the rights of authors. In comments from the majority describing in detail the free use of the public sector, authors’ rights have been protected by a short, final sentence: ‘The use of protected material shall be decided upon in negotiations.’; It is not said who it is to be negotiated with or who is to pay. This is a very relevant question, because users, i.e. counties, municipalities and other public institutions, are not required to pay; the whole point of the note is that it should be free of charge for them. There has also been the point of concern about the expenditure of the Local Governments on the day of the opening of the contract licence in the digital field. It's been said by the majority that these are just notes, and that therefore it doesn't weigh that much. Then I have to ask, is it really that it's not so dangerous what you promise to do when you write comments? Is it that you don't have to do it further? Of course it isn't. These comments are a signal of what we have in store for a possible red-green government, and we have a right to explain the real content. I hope the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party in this debate will rake the chestnuts out of the glass, take reason and not put the rightholders in a kinky and unsustainable situation in the future. For this is negotiations. Anyone who knows the practical life of copyright is aware that it is often difficult to get paid. The audience friends quickly to the idea of free use, and all experience tells us that recovery on the large scale is not easy. A majority later to believe that there should be new large openings for free use, or, as far as I understand the representative, use under possible negotiated collective arrangements with the unknown addressee and the negotiator. It will guarantee a poor negotiating position, for example for Kopinor. And it'll lead to less money, and with great probability, a lengthy process. We all know what the story of the copy refund was. This one won't get any easier. In conclusion, let me just express a wish that the remarks that the majority have put together, after this debate, can be sent to the scrapper of history too little thought. It is simply political craftsmanship. The broad political consensus that has been throughout the post-war period has provided security and predictability for an important area. At a time when this is actually more important than ever, cultural policy as a business policy, it is regrettable that any red-green majority to the harvest will create uncertainty and weaken the negotiating point of rightholders in a digitised future. The red-green parties promise 1 pst. by the State budget for culture, and will introduce its own cultural law if they come to power. There will be small amounts of money in relation to the values that are now in play if copyright is undermined. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been promoted in the position of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e287	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e290	The representative Geske opened up saying that it was unusual to have big business negotiations on a Saturday. The representative Giske's closing made me look at the calendar, because I actually thought it was May 1st. Copyright is a pillar of cultural policy. SV calls about copyright for copyright in a more digital age – a right that is always an important prerequisite for creating art and culture. We're in a new major technological leap that challenges incorporated systems and systems. The challenge for us is to create mechanisms that guarantee the rights of authors, to promote cultural and knowledge production without hampering the ability of users. The exercise of rights must be accompanied by the necessary technological developments. We haven't solved all the challenges with the draft law that exists. What has now been important is to put in place clarifications and strengthening of certain rights of copyright workers. The DRM systems and the Digital Agreement License Act are in place to ensure copyright. There are still unresolved questions, and even the short picture of the future is inconclusive. We're at the beginning of a big technological leap. There is therefore a need for revisions of this law quite soon. My prediction is that it won't be long for the next time we're up and running. The government itself says in the proposition that the ministry will now initiate a review of both the content and wording of the copyright law. A comprehensive review of a broad and open consultation process will be initiated. In this there must be a recognition also from the government parties that the Government's bill per. is not sufficient today. It's a pleasure. We will, if necessary, be a driving force for progress in this important work. SV has some exceptions to the majority voting, two of which are of particular importance. One is alert to the extent to which prints of digitised works can be obtained. The government must be clear about measures if the counter-suspected extent is such that it undermines the remuneration systems of rightholders. The second is to counteract technological protection systems becoming such that they not only protect copyright but also at the same time protect one particular technology from certain dominant market players. I'll come back to these proposals. We note that the Government of the Proposition says that the design of the bill focuses on maintaining the established balance between the interests of authors in controlling the use of their intellectual property and the public interest in the widest possible access to intellectual property. It's a general consideration that SV fully shares. But we have also noticed that several user hearing bodies thought that the balance between rights holders' and user interests was distorted in the favor of the rightholder in the government bill. The proposal that would make almost an entire generation of juveniles of eager MP3 users to criminals was stopped by the entire committee. SV sees the two proposals that deal with this as having exactly the same intention: allowing copying from a CD and over to the MP3 player, and only that. With regard to the proposal of the majority to the third paragraph of Section 53a on ‘the acquisition by a private user of legally acquired works on what is generally considered to be relevant playback equipment’, the comments state that it is clearly limited to CD playback and replay. There is a broad majority in the UK that such access should not include works from, for example: DVDs, books, electronic files via the Internet or TV applications. If the rapporteur expresses another view of this, he will then represent a clear minority. Of course, it is unfortunate that the Committee is unable to agree on the same wording when the intention is the same. However, today's debate should help clarify these points. Another point in the majority’s position has also been the subject of many interpretations and debates in which the government parties have made groundless claims as to how the majority should be understood. Let me therefore clarify the following: the author should still have control of his works. Nor does the public sector escape that principle. The wording of the Committee's position on this point shall not be understood as meaning that copyright may be freely used in non-commercial activities. It may only be used freely if consent for free use has been given. The use of protected material is decided upon in negotiation. The multiplicity comment on the exploitation in the non-commercial context of works posted on the Internet is not linked to any legislative change, but is based on an understanding of the current law in this area. The legislator has not proposed changes to the applicable principles of contractual interpretation, and disputes concerning understanding of agreements shall, as is already the case, not be decided by the Stortinget, but by the courts. And that's exactly what the representative Geske said in his post: The majority don't change a single paragraph of the law, they don't move a single comma in the law that affects or changes the legal situation in this area. SV included in the majority who did not wish to introduce schemes now that would oblige libraries to have printing systems that distinguish prints from the Internet and prints from digital collections. In principle, library users should be able to take paper printouts of digitised material from libraries’ collections, in line with photocopies from the same works in book form. But here we have to follow developments closely. If such printouts are extended beyond what now appears, new systems, simple and unbureaucratic for users, which at the same time guarantee technology-neutral copyright, need to be considered in cooperation with stakeholders. In this context, it is essential to note that we will maintain the provision that digitisation in libraries can only take place where original copies are not to be purchased in ordinary trade, and that each library can only produce digital copies based on the originals that each library already has in its collections. The digital copy shall continue to be allowed only within the physical premises of the individual library and may not be shared with other libraries. The issue of printing will therefore be limited by the availability of digital material, as well as administrative and economic costs. It could be that we'd gone the other way: a more open access to digitizing material, but limitation in printing. But we chose the opposite: a more open access to prints and restriction of digitized material. Either the restriction relates to printing or the ability to digitise works, both shall imply rights and remuneration to the authors. The printing problem may be greater than what we can imagine in the near future. We were concerned that the majority SV has usually included in this attitude, not taking this challenge seriously enough. That was why we made a proposal stating that it must be ensured that ‘rightholders maintain their remuneration regardless of the technology used by users’. For this reason, we ask the Government to monitor developments in the extent to which prints of digitised works will take place in libraries, archives and museums and in the education sector, and to evaluate ongoing action in this respect. The purpose of the copyright holders was to ensure that SV, together with the government parties and the Workers' Party, helped to put in place DRM systems that ensure the authorisation and, where appropriate, remuneration for the use of copyright. This is the key itself, because it can prevent such solid theft of copyright like what we've been witnessing in recent years. It is a major weakness of the law that this system at the same time favours the playback equipment of major market players. SV wants access to media playback to be the same for all platform users. Therefore, together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party, SV has a proposal to ask the Government to draw up ‘proposals that break down the platform barriers that users experience in order to be able to use players on the Internet’. Cultural life has no interest in just those who are on, for example: Microsoft’s platform, should be able to legally access. Artists and users share common interests here. With the law today, we are taking some necessary, but not enough, steps to secure copyright and users in a new era. Revision, evaluation and new rounds are necessary. SV is prepared to address this debate with a clear objective: what serves the best possible production and the best possible use of art, culture and knowledge. I refer to the suggestions SV has alone or together with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e332	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e335	The Breathwork Act is our most important cultural law. It's the one who protects the artists' right to control their own works of art – whether it's a book, a film, a painting, a photograph or a sound file. Artists want to be able to live off their jobs just like everyone else. In order to produce art, they must have a reasonable return on what they produce. There are only a few who benefit from scholarship schemes. Most people need to sell their art in a market. The Breathworks Act is designed to protect artists' products in the market. The Breathwork Act provides for the authors to have control over the use of their copyrights. That means that the author has the exclusive right to make his works available to the public and to copy them. These are mandatory principles that have been the foundation of the copyright law all the way, based on a tradition of more than a hundred years. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that we want these principles to apply also in the face of new technological challenges. The Government, with the proposed legislative changes submitted, wanted to stimulate increased electronic distribution by facilitating legal download from the Internet. But it presupposes that those who create and perform copyright are given legal protection to ensure their income in this area as well. I think the proposal maintains the balance between the interests of rightholders and consumer concerns in an excellent way and continues the main principles of the copyright law. The proposal on changes to the copyright law is essentially a follow-up to the EU Copyright Directive. The Copyright Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement in the summer of 2004. In the comments to St.prp. No 6 for 2004-2005 on the inclusion of the EU Copyright Directive, an overall committee states that the main objective of the Directive ‘is to harmonise the level of protection of the digital exploitation of protected copyright and works’. Unfortunately, however, I am deeply concerned that the majority of the committee, represented by the opposition parties, in several of its comments on the copyright law, contributes to the introduction of a completely different legal status in Norway from that of our neighbouring country and Europe. Although not many changes to the legal text are proposed, this may nevertheless lead to a conflict between Norway and international contractual obligations. Access to information is one of the most important principles of a democracy, and it is therefore necessary to facilitate this. This is important to avoid knowledge gaps in society and to protect freedom of expression and expression. But in order to ensure people's access to the necessary and desired knowledge, information, cultural expressions and cultural impulses, we must not get hurt in order to ignore those who have created this, the authors. We must not make it more difficult than it already is, to live from copyright, creativity and brain power in this country. Who else would defend the rights of writers, musicians, architects and artists and provide legal protection for their works, other than cultural politicians? We do not want a diversity in cultural life, a breadth in the publication of Norwegian literature, music, visual arts, etc.? What are we for, we who are cultural politicians, if it wasn't this that was our most important task? Of course, it is also fundamental that what is created, written, composed or performed should be made available to all. I don't think either of us want any restrictions on availability, on the contrary. But then we have to make good arrangements to ensure that someone is paid for it. It will continue to be freely available for copying and printing copyrights for private use. But the state, at the Ministry of Culture, only has cashed out for the current year a total of 52 million. kr to the rightholders to pay for this. When libraries are required to produce copies for specific purposes, under the new law, there will be no illegality in doing so. Very much is produced on the basis of the exemption rules in Sections 12 and 16. In the proposition, it is even open for greater printing access than in today's legislation. What we consider to be contrary to copyright as defined in the EU Directive is free access to print out the libraries' own digitised collections. It is to solve this that the Ministry has proposed a contract licence scheme here as well. So now it might not be the majority for this. A similar scheme is also proposed for educational institutions. The principle of free shall continue to apply both in libraries and in higher education. I am glad that a joint committee will clarify this in the setting. When the Odelsting is now to adopt amendments to the copyright law, it is important to ensure a further balance between the interests of authors, on the one hand, and the public interest in the widest possible access to their productions, on the other. These two aspects are, in reality, closely linked. Both sides depend on each other. The creators of spiritism depend on income to create. In order to share in what is created, the public needs the spirit forces. Then we must not help to distort the balance in favour of one party, as I feel that the opposition is now doing in its comments. The interests of authors will not be sufficiently safeguarded if the public sector is not to pay for its use of different types of copyright, as the majority of the Committee advocates. The comments state that: «when works are lawfully posted on the Internet, tacit consent has been given by rightholders for the non-commercial use of others». This will make Norway a haven for use of works on the Internet. Although the use is non-commercial, it would lead, for example, to: an author would have sold fewer books, because the so-called non-commercial user can now get it for free over the Internet. The same would apply to music and other artistic expressions. Jusprofessor Hans Petter Graver even believes that the majority here expresses is illegal: «In my view, they are also wrong. The public sector does not have free access.» Such freedom is manifestly contrary to the EU Directive because it harms the economic interests of authors, cf. step three of the three step test referred to. If the intention is to save the public for expenses by paying the fees to the authors, I have to say that this is in stark contrast to the exposure that several of the same parties exhibit, for example. in the context of the great cultural promise, where they are willing to roll billions of public money into the cultural budget. But when the government presents a law that will, in consequence, trigger significant counts from the public to the creators of art and culture, then they go against it. Last year, publishers of books and suppliers of drugs received 195 million papers and periodicals. kr in income via Kopinor. Copies from the public sector, primarily from the school and general government, accounted for most of these revenues. This means that the public sector is a crucial part of the source of income of cultural and knowledge providers. This is money for culture. Don't the representatives Giske, Lund Bergo and Sollied Overeras see this? That it does not have the same sound in the ears of the representative Knudsen of the Progress Party, I actually understand. We must not provide it so that we take this income base from them. I note that the representative Giske, and also the representative Lund Bergo, have made a number of concessions in their speeches. I think it was wise that they wanted to clarify some of their comments. Similarly, it is distributed a proposal in the Chamber today that well underlines the need for the same thing, although I really don't think it changes anything. With regard to the issue of technical protection systems, the Government has initially extended the scope of the Directive in order to take account of consumers. What first created a battle, not least in the media, is the question of copying from a copy-blocked CD to MP3 players. On this issue too, it has been difficult for many to understand why strict practices still need to be pursued. On the other hand, it is completely unreasonable to open the door wide open, to which the opposition parties have contributed with their comments. On this basis, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party tried to find an intermediate solution to further satisfy the users in relation to the Government's proposal. This solution would have limited the transfer to only valid from copy-locked CD to MP3. The interim solution was based on the rightholders’ own statements from the open consultation within the Committee that such transfer should be possible. It could be defended within the framework of the Directive. It is difficult to see that the majority's proposal makes, where it is added to a completely unmanageable provision which may in reality mean that barriers can be broken for copying any content, in any medium. It's going to be a little bit of a mistake. We are in the midst of a raging technological development. This means that society must go through mechanisms to regulate, so that the balance between authors and consumers is not distorted by this development. The government's proposal to revise the copyright law helps to restore balance. Frank Lloyd Wright has said: «When future generations in a thousand years are excavating the remains of our culture, what will they find? Baths and dishwashers.’» I am more optimistic on behalf of Norwegian cultural life. But in order to preserve a living cultural life that produces new works of mind, the Storting must do everything in its power to curb technological developments that put authors under pressure. It's actually our task as cultural politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e400	The Breathwork Act is relevant to all of us, because we are all users of copyright. It is also important because it protects the legitimate interest of authors and rightholders in controlling the use of their copyrights. For the Centre Party, the main aim of the changes in the copyright law has been to try to maintain the balance between the interests of the creators and users of the copyright. A well-functioning market — if one can call it so — for copyright depends on both parties being taken into account in the legislation. The protection of copyright by the Agency is a prerequisite for the continued creation of a diversity of copyrights, for the enjoyment and benefit of different user groups. At the same time, the copyright law is also necessary to ensure that users of copyright have adequate access to the works, whether they are books, music, films or anything else. The digital age has created new opportunities and challenges for both copyright holders and copyright users. Digital technology has, among other things: made it possible to produce copies of works in a completely different size than before, in which case copies which are of the same quality as the original. At the same time, developments have also made it possible for rightholders and providers of playback and reading equipment to better control where and how copyright users should benefit from the works they have access to. There are new issues that have not been adequately addressed in existing legislation. I think it is important in this debate to stress that the debate is not about which side you are on, and which side you are looking at, but about what point of balance you should find in the relationship between creators and users of copyright, at a time with different conditions and also with new technology. The Central Party agrees with the Government’s proposal to prohibit the copying of unlawfully issued material. Suffer from many, including The Joint Police Association, has pointed out the problems of enforcing such a law, we believe that it is an important signal when one says that copyright – it is film, music or books – is not something that one should initially expect to acquire for free. There is something quite different with regard to the Government's proposal to prohibit the circumvention of copyright barriers which prevent the legitimate use of a legally acquired copy of copyright. If that bill had been put into force, it would, among other things, be prevented the purchasers of CD discs from copying their music onto MP3 players. Fortunately, a majority today is behind a position that will still make it possible. It's worth noting that also the Right Party and the Christian Party have chosen to turn around at this point. However, the centre party is also sceptical about the extensive protection of so-called DRM technology by law. It is a technology that can not only protect legal and legitimate rights, such as copyrights, but can also have a completely different purpose in mind, such as: to restrict the market access of other operators. On the basis of the bill, DRM systems, which can be used by large suppliers, which use it for purely competitive regulation, achieve the same type of protection as those systems that intend to protect copyright against illicit copying. It's unfortunate, in the opinion of the Center Party. In the view of the majority, it is important that there should be no greater restrictions on the scope of public libraries than the EU directive requires and actually requires. In our view, the Government went beyond what was necessary in the interests of the rightholders, the directive and the so-called three-step test. As regards, inter alia, the possibility of the public sector to: Taking prints from digitised material, the Centre Party shares the assessments made, inter alia, by far. in the Workers' Party's submissions on what is actually contained in the legislative texts adopted today and how they should be understood. But I have to say, after hearing the speeches from the Right and Christian People's Party here today, that after today's debate we have to ask ourselves how it is that the Government intends to follow up the decisions that are actually taken today. I think it is necessary that the Council of State, after this round of debate, actually clarify, so that the Storting may be on the verge of whether the Government intends to follow up the decisions taken by a majority of the Storing. I notice that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party continue to assert the things that the majority have already rejected, among other things. that no remuneration will be granted for copyright. Despite the fact that the majority here today quite clearly say that it should be given on a sea-going basis, the representatives of the government parties continue to oppose it. It shows that the debate after the setting has created controversy and commitment. Many of the reactions and political conflicts seem to be somewhat oversized, and I think it has created more uncertainty than is necessary. That is why it is now important that the law be followed up in line with the majority decisions and in line with the comments and the debate we have today, and it is also important that in two years' time we can have an evaluation of the way the law has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e426	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Left does not sit on the Committee on Culture, and in this context we deeply regret it. In this case, we have a lot of heart that could be expressed in the committee, and we should have liked to have contributed to the work. For this is a debate we in our party have had in recent years. But I would also like to take the opportunity to perhaps bring some new aspects into the debate, between slogans, inventive words and fy-words. The problem is that the premises at the bottom of the amendment are a slightly outdated and slightly outdated EEA directive. It has not made matters simpler, neither for government nor for greatness. That being said, this debate is essentially about how to find the reasonable balances, how to manage to safeguard the interests of the consumer and the rights of the cultural operator. Creating schemes and systems that enable the performer and artist to share their art with others is absolutely vital in a society. Art and culture are the very basis for our development as human beings and as a society. On the other hand, it is equally important to facilitate the access of each person to art and culture. Citizens' rights must also be respected. We need to know what we're paying for when we buy a CD, and if you can use it on the playing options you want to use at home. The legislative proposal we are voting on today is an illustration of the strenuous exercise of adapting the legislation to technological developments. Technology is developing faster than lawmaking. In the field of biotechnology, this room has been very capable of taking this debate on ahead and laying down some principles. I hope that this debate here in Stortinget may have led you to realize that there are other technological areas where you also have to take that challenge. The main thing is to take care of the artist on the one hand and the consumer on the other. But in the meantime, we have some technology suppliers who have a lot of premises that I really don't think the committee has taken inwards how to govern. I am very pleased that the Committee has come to the conclusion that it is okay that music is transferred from CD to MP3 players. It's an important hold today. But, as Lund Bergo said, there are many things that are not completely clear in the matter. It's also a challenge in the future to get labels of CDs that actually make you know what it is a buyer, when a buyer. Open standards are an important principle for the Left. We are therefore pleased that the majority in the committee expresses general support for this. The market distortion that closed standards will mean is, with Left's eyes, very unfortunate. And in the legislative proposal that has been tabled, that's exactly what it takes. But it has to be further worked on. I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is particularly important for the Left that public authorities also use the open standards as much as possible. In this debate, an incredible amount of energy has been spent on shell words and characteristics of others. Just as far as that part is concerned, the Left is happy to be outside the Committee. But the challenge in the future is to take care of all three interests: the interest of the artist, the interest of the consumer, who needs to know what you are paying for, and the interest in privacy. We now see that the technology supplier, who lies between the artist and the consumer, is gaining more and more power over the everyday life of the individual citizen, the ability of the individual citizen to use the product he buys, the whole construction of the house by the individual citizen. We haven't really considered the debate about what's between the artist and the consumer. Technology is becoming more and more involved in our everyday lives today, without us caring about creating legislation that sets a framework for technology use. Without really caring that we have private monitors in our society today, we haven't taken that debate over us. We've been busy protecting ourselves against state surveillance, while it's actually private surveillance that's the challenge for future privacy. Before we start to care about the middle point, we may not have taken on board the fact that this is where the challenge lies. It is not always the technology supplier, between the consumer and the artist, who goes neither the artist's nor the consumer's way. I have to say that of all parts of the debate, I think that the proposal that is on our table today is perhaps the most strange. We adopt a law, but we have to evaluate whether it works at all as we like, and we have to give that job to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e443	Will the new copyright law deprive writers of large incomes? That is one of the questions we have to ask in the debate that is now taking place. If they are to be deprived of large incomes, it must mean that they have large incomes today. The situation is that there are large and numerous scholarships in circulation via Norwegian scholarly association of authors and translators. There has recently been an action among the journalists, because they believe the majority of the scholarship funds are awarded in such a way that they act as an extra income for NRK staff and teachers. I didn't mean to. But it tells us that there is a struggle between the different environments also in such associations. The majority of the Committee believes that copying music from CD, even from copy-blocked music, to MP3 players should be allowed. The only – and important – reason why the Coastal Party is in favour of this is that when young people have MP3 players and CD players, they either copy it is allowed or not. Then it becomes too easy to ask Stortinget to make laws and regulations that will criminalise all Norwegian youth in practice. The majority of the committee cannot accept that the size should be used in such a game. That's why the Coastal Party goes in, of course, so that young people can download their CDs to MP3 players. Making higher education compendia easier is one of the objections to this new legal text. Here we are on a delicate theme. Many bookwriters make good money next to getting a huge scholarship. They make good money that the books are used as a curriculum in teaching. Nevertheless, the law clearly states that authors have the exclusive right to make their works available to the public. In relation to this right, it is clarified that Internet cafes and others which only make computer equipment available to consumers are not considered to make available to the general public copyrights collected by consumers. Performers and producers of sound and video recordings are given the exclusive right to dispose of their works, in line with what is happening to authors today. I would like to take up one thing that should be a consequence of a change in this law. The Coastal Party has programmed to invest heavily in the Norwegian TV drama, and entered into the revised national budget to grant 100 million. kr as a starting package to develop Norwegian TV drama. When I take this up in this context, it's because today we're discussing rights related, among other things. to the second fastest growing industrial sector in the world. The film and television drama industry is the name of this industry. When we hear from Norwegian filmmakers that they are losing with the new law, they underestimate the competence of the international industry to create barriers and to create systems that make you never get the same quality on a DVD as on a movie. The film and television industries are flourishing. I hope this legal basis will make the criticism a shame, and I actually believe that the Coastal Party will bring other parties with it in a big deal on Norwegian TV drama.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e462	I have never experienced a representative who rudder so desperately away from an attitude that the representative Giske has been doing today. But I understand that the representative is in charge because of the pressure, or the reactions, he's got from cultural life on what he's been with in the last few days. Then we know that it's called attack is the best defense. Although the committee joins many of the proposals in the government's proposition, it's not happy with this I'm most busy with today. The Committee of the Regions is proposing decisive changes which are in conflict with the interests of the legal entities, while the changes in part are also contrary to the Copyright Directive and other international obligations of Norway in this area. Difor is this day no good day for Norwegian culture. I was actually going to start with a brief explanation about this legislation, but it wasn't. Monday afternoon, when I realized where it was going, I seriously judged whether to draw the whole thing, because here they have the so-called cultural party Arbeidarpartiet, SV and the Zenterpartiet, together with the Progress Party, formed a new anticultural alliance. Plural Pronunciation on page 32 ‘that copyright, including Internet printouts to a reasonable extent, should be capable of being used in non-commercial activities, such as municipalities and county councils, without being subject to consent and/or payment. The use of protected material shall be decided upon in negotiations». It's not quite easy to get what this means, but it's not likely that it seems that non-commercial public activity should be entitled to use intellectual property free of charge where others have to pay. Of course, it is unacceptable that the public favors itself at the expense of some professionals. Where the public is in need of copyright, they shall, in line with others, have the consent of authors and, in line with others, pay for the use. I note that the statements in the setting at this point apply not only to copyright on the Internet, but also to copyright in general. Now the representative Giske has said, both here today and in the media, that they don't mean this as it says. In order to clarify this, each of the plural parties should take the word and confirm that this note does not mean what it says, and that the legal entities here will not receive any reduced rights in relation to today's legislation. Without a clear statement from each of the plural parts, the setting can be used, with serious consequences for those who live by creating works of mind. A little cavern for bolts comes the plural with statements that are not based in the truth, but that are instead free imagination in relation to the legislation that is currently in force in Norway and other comparable countries. Citations left: ‘The majority indicate that this has been incorporated practice and interpretation both in Norway and the rest of the world that works which have been lawfully published without restrictions in use can be used by users in addition to the limitations laid down by the copyright law. The majority believe that when works are lawfully posted on the Internet, tacit consent has been given by rightholders for the non-commercial use of others.» What is this type of claim? If the majority know that there is an environment with such a practice today, this environment has established a practice that is contrary to current Norwegian law. When the majority also refers to ‘integrated interpretation’, this interpretation must have become within the same environment. The fact that a law is broken several times, does, as you know, no longer legal action. One cannot thus establish a legal practice by repeated offences. Here, too, the representative is trying to explain away in retrospect. The problem is that, contrary to what he has said, in the setting there are no reservations associated with the quotation. But again, if this is the case that the plural does not mean what they have written in the setting, I ask the whole plural to tell you clearly about it. For example, they can say from this speaker that what is said about the use of works in teaching on page 33 of the setting does not mean that the legal entities – by posting their mental works on the Internet – lose some of their dishes according to copyright. If they want to, they can get the text from me afterwards. What the plural claims is that there are different rules for copyright on the Internet than for copyright published in a different way. That's wrong. The claim has no legal basis in law, practice or any other legal source. Then I would like to remind you that lawyers who argue for their clients are not a legal source in Norway. Unfortunately, his attempts at clarification here today are also not satisfactory as a legal source or as a clarification. It is such that intellectual labor is our most important cultural law. It sets out dishes for those who create works of mind, and for performers who perform works of mind. On the other hand, it also stated that legal entities must give way to other interests in certain circumstances, for example: is able to copy for private use. There must be a balance between these interests. This is also the result of our international commitments, for example: The Berne Convention and the Directive adopted by Stortinget Net as part of the EEA Agreement. If the Member States are to limit their rights, they must do so in accordance with the three-step rule. The restriction shall only take place in special circumstances, which do not prejudice the normal exploitation of a spirit work and which also does not cause undue harm to the legitimate interests of the rightholder. [[1]] [[2]] [[3]] The majority break this test at all stages by saying in general that the legal practitioners must tolerate a wider use of their intellectual property than that which follows the rules of copyright. In this way they also break our international obligations. These are obligations that we must be able to answer for, for example: the EFTA Court. In the case of libraries, the majority claim that the Government of the Proposition prohibits what is now the law of copyright § 16. The truth is that the Government proposes that the claims under Section 16 should allow more than today, including: digitisation of copyright and making available on data terminals in their local libraries. However, it is suggested in the proposal that the directive does not open up for users of the named terminals themselves to print. This does not seem to be considered by the majority, since they say on the contrary that such printing should be allowed. Since it has been claimed that the Government's proposal has an effect on the free principle in the libraries, I will emphasize as much as I can, that it is not. The free principle applies without change. I am pleased that the committee on page 36 of the configuration agrees with this. So I'm going to get to what it's been focused most on in connection with this bill proposition, that's MP3. In this context, I will only note that the Government's proposal has not been endorsed, that the governing party in the Committee has developed a compromise proposal that will allow the copyright to be broken to copy from CD to MP3, but that the majority in the Committee will have a much wider arrangement, which allows copying from and to all formats as long as the individual user assumes that it is copied, in general, to be considered as relevant playing equipment. What's left as protection is not easy to see. At this point, too, explanations have come in the media. The representatives Giske and Lund Bergo say that they think it should only be allowed to break the lock to copy from CD to MP3, while the author of the case, Knudsen, says that it should also be allowed to copy DVD, digital books, etc. If Giske and Lund Bergo here mean what they say, they can vote for the government party's proposal. It just covers copying CD to MP3. If they do not, they will have to take responsibility for the adoption of a legal text that covers much more. Finally, I would like to regret the situation we have now experienced in this important area. It is not easy to follow up, especially because those behind the plurality explain the consequences of the comments and their legal text. The evaluation requested by the majority in the proposal on the table is made in the proposal we are making today, and will, of course, also be made further. I will come back as soon as practicable, so that the Storting will have a chance to clarify the unclear situation as Trond Giske & Co. has created through the plural setting, which the representative, in his proposal, appears to make an attempt to repair. However, this proposal does not repair the unclear situation that the majority have created and that they could have repaired today by going away from the parts of the setting that provide the basis for all the unexplained.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e522	The Council of State exhibits a frightening lack of legal understanding. A debate in Odelstinget is a preliminary work on a law. Four batches have clarified the sentences she just asked for. It is clear that she has not taken part in the debate so far. I believe that she can read in the record that the things she read were already made clear. We are in the absurd situation that everyone knows the question: Have you stopped beating your wife? But we're not there. We're in this situation: you hit your wife. And then we say, no, we don't! Oh, now you think you saw the falls! There we are today. We've been saying the same thing all along, the Council of State has given us something else. We're going to take this point by point. Let's take consideration in the public sector first. The council has told the press that she believes it is going to be completely wrong for municipalities not to pay authors and authors for the material they use. So they don't have to pay for culture. In the news of culture, she said that the majority ‘applies to a law that allows all those who lose their rights to be used as wild game’. In the light of the debate, can the Council of State now clearly state from the pulpit that the Stortinget – Odelstinget – does not change the remuneration arrangements for the rightholders? It would be an important clarification for them to be able to live by their intellectual property.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e533	The problem is that what is in the configuration and in the legal work done by the committee is unclear to those who are going to follow it up. Everything says in debates and here today – that it should be interpreted like this – of course we take that with us. It'll be noted, and we'll read the minutes, etc. But the only consequence of what's being said from the speaker's chair is that the multiple takes a distance from some part of what's in the setting. If the multiple can be separated from any of the settings, it will also be easier for us to follow up, because it is unclear. It's not just us in the department or I as the state council that thought it was unclear. All those who are covered by this, it seems unclear. They've reacted, and they're afraid of the consequences. So I'm actually asking those who want what's going to come out to be present – as bitter as it may be – to distance themselves from a part of what's in the settings we have for handling today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e538	Most of the government's input was clearly answered in three posts before her, namely in the main numbers from the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party. But I want to focus on a different relationship. On page 43 of the setting you can see § 45b. In the hearing, it was found that what is proposed by the majority and by the Government will lead to 50 pst. increase in the cost of music playback for P4, Channel 24, nearby radios, cafes, pubs, discos and cultural institutions where music is used. This could lead, according to P4, to the need to reduce by ten-twelve years' work. This may also lead to the termination of the operation of several near-traffic radios. My question to the council is whether she is comfortable with this, and also whether she is comfortable with the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli's view that it is positive that the government's MP3 law is being voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e547	I don't want to do any good for either P4 or anyone else's math. But what I think is good is that our composers, our musicians and our artists get paid for it being the salesmen, and that we as consumers pay for what we get to hear. And that's what I thought was positive. This is not a consumer law, it is a law that also has to take care of consumers, but it is primarily a law that allows authors and lawyers to have something to live on. That's what I thought was good, and then I'm less concerned about the downfall of P4 – to put it straight out! When it comes to what's in the government party's hold for copying over to MP3, I understand what they're doing. Of course, we have been in dialogue with our parties when they have gone into what they have proposed. I know very well how the youth reacts when they cannot copy over to their iPod or to the MP3 player. This was perhaps one of the points that I left behind – and that I found difficult, because we had to stay within the law when it comes to the directive. But since the legal entities have agreed to this wording, it is much easier for us to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e556	I have to ask the Council of State to help make the clarity of this matter clearer, and that no further ambiguity is spread. So now we have had a long debate. The entries from all lots have been kept and the points in which the Council of State calls for clarity are affected by all the parties in the majority. For SV's sake, I can just quote Magnar Lund Bergo. He said, ‘Let me therefore clarify the following: the author should still have control over his works. Nor does the public sector escape this principle. The wording of the Committee's position on this point shall not be understood as meaning that copyright may be freely used in non-commercial activities.» I must ask the Minister of Culture to renegotiate. If it is Culture-Norway and the Minister of Culture is concerned about it, the Minister of Culture must now ensure that all the clarifications made in the speeches are clarified in the direction of the understanding that she believes it is absolutely necessary to get out of this Chamber. If not, the Minister of Culture contributes to ambiguity and a situation for Culture-Norway that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e568	The representative, Halvorsen, says that the Minister of Culture must renegotiate. I want to ask SV to resale. I know there are many forces in SV that want to sell. If we're going to take the article from Magnar Lund Bergo seriously, and we're going to do that, we're going to have to take an actual distance from a part of what's in this setting. And if you take a distance from any of the things in this setting, and say it from the pulpit here, it also makes it much easier for us. We're going to read the record carefully. We also read the configuration carefully. We're going to do what we can to make this a good law for Culture-Noreg. But then, in fact, even those from the majority here have to realize that they may have expressed themselves in a slightly unwise way, as the debate has become so strong afterwards. When e.g. With regard to MP3 players, is it true that one should only copy from CD to MP3 players? Why does one not boast when the proposal made by the Right and Christian People's Party is put in place, because then all ambiguity is gone? You have to go down from the horses and see what you've done, and you'll see the consequences. If you want, you can actually vote on proposals here that clear up the confusion that the majority proposals have created.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e576	I share the view of Kristin Halvorsen that at some point, when you get a majority proposal against it, you have to actually start dealing with the decisions the Stortinget is going to make. The open question here is: is the government going to follow up the decisions that are being made today? Moreover, I believe that the Council of State is somewhat mistaken about the debate in Odelstinget. It's part of the pre-work for the law. It is not just a record to be read in the Ministry of Culture and forgotten. It is a source of law used in case law and forms part of the basis for the interpretation of the legal provisions contained herein. That is why the debate and what has been said here today are important. Then it is time that the Council of State also takes it inward, and does not continue to interpret things beyond what there is basis for, but now in fact assures from the pulpit of the Great Government that the Government will loyally follow up what is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e583	I know very well that what is happening in Odelstinget today is a pre-work for the law. But it's still a little bit difficult when part of what's being said here is on a collision course with what's in the setting. So a pluralization could make it easier for us to follow up to the best of culture. For example, and I repeat, what goes on with MP3 players and copying: what does one mean? Does anyone think the Knudsen case-order says that it should be copyable on different copying tools, or does it just mean that it should be copied to MP3? It is easy for the majority to support the minority in this setting, which explains what the plural means. I'm aware that it's hard to go back on something you've said and something you've written, but if you really want a clarification and to give help to the further work on the laws, there's a possibility to clarify, in Odelstinget today, or in Creation, if necessary, when the laws are to be handled there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e588	It is alarming that the Council of State asks us to support a proposal which the Ministry itself has said is contrary to the EU directive. Then there would be an advantage to the Minister of Culture, when we have a debate in Odelstinget, followed in the debate, instead of relying on reading the minutes afterwards. So all she's asked for is that she's done four pieces innumerable times, so she can go up and say it's settled. When she reads from the settings and says it's unclear about a section that's about the use of the Internet, and that's what you're referring to, it's actually about Internet madness, you read the setting as a certain man reads the Bible. I note that the Council of State will not take away from what she herself has said in the media, and that she believes that it is still such that the rightholders should not have paid in the public sector. Such a minister of culture can simply not see himself worthy of having. But to get to the heart of the matter, what there is actually disagreement about, the question of the interpretation of implicit consent, which she is very annoyed at the majority for: Well, the Minister of Education has agreed for exactly the same thing. Will the Council of State use the same disputings about her own colleague in the Government for her opinion of what the majority does, in the hearing opinion referred to in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e597	Yes, I have followed closely in the debate. The insinuation that I have not done so says about the representative Giske. So once again, it's not just us in the department that's been upset by what's in the setting. For example, the CEO of Kopinor has sent a letter to Trond Giske, reporting the same concerns, Professor Jon Bing says the same – and these are people who can substance really well. Then I am not pleased that Marianne Antonsen, who represents GramArt and Gramo and is sixth on the list of the Workers' Party in Eastfold, is the delight of what Trond Giske has told her. In fact, I want you to tell the speaker that a distance from some of the things that are in the setting, so that we can make it clear, because it makes the follow-up to the work much easier. In particular, I also need to mention what goes on MP3 players. Nor have I heard anything from the pluralist parties if they are really some of the proposals that the minority have, or if they want the broad interpretation that the representative Knudsen puts in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e604	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e607	The use of MP3 has suddenly and quite recently increased considerably in the campaign year among some big business representatives who only recently found out how people outside this room have listened to music for a long time. Image construction is probably important to attract young voters. But I think the media debate in the last few days has not felt like music in the ears of the same politicians. In this case, it is important to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time, not just music! I think the representative Lund Bergo had a point in relation to the horn music that the representative Giske had in his chest; I also think I recognized some of the strophes from all the 1st May speeches I have been forced to hear as a band musician. The government's bill implies a liberal attitude to copying music for private use, including from CD to MP3. At this point there has been a lot of debate here today. The government parties here at Stortinget have chosen to go a step further than the proposal in the proposition. There is a point to listen to advice, because in the open-ended hearing, it appeared that none of the rightholders want a ban on copying from copy-blocked CD to MP3. On the contrary, it seems that all parties agree that such copying should be possible, as a unanimous committee also initially supports. A point was made that the government parties here at Stortinget are moving towards their own government. But unlike the majority, we've come up with a solution for MP3 that gives clear signals that it's just about transferring audio recordings from CD to MP3. On the other hand, the majority also opens for replay from legally purchased DVDs, TV programs and books of any format. The representative Knudsen called this ‘foresight’. It is possible that it was a result of the idea that it is typical Norwegian to be good, I would rather say that it is typical Norwegian to be self-sufficient. But I do not know how far ahead it is of breaking the EEA Agreement. The representative Giske's innocent-blue speech for the gallery on exhaustive comments does not imply any change. The media debate has previously shown that the majority does not entirely agree with the content and origin of the majority spirit, to put it that way. If the representative Trond Giske and the Workers' Party were genuinely concerned with ensuring the ability to copy from CD to MP3, it is paradoxical that, by supporting this comment, the Workers' Party indirectly contributes to the failure of the copyright law because the Directive has not been properly implemented. To put it that way: I think Young Right school debaters have a little bit of each to enjoy when the Workers' Party and the representative Giske contribute to that it will not be allowed to copy blocked CDs to MP3. Finally, the representative Knudsen stated that the Progress Party in this case has had the same view over a longer period of time. I have to say that was a positive development that gives cause for hope. Otherwise it was also strange to hear the representative Giske's somewhat acidic comments about jusidian Thommes' warnings. I think it would generally have been an advantage for more educated people and not least within the hall of this hall when dealing with legal issues. Otherwise, I think there's reason to listen to these warnings, because there's actually reason to ask about the majority, for example. believes that so-called non-commercial municipalities will continue to pay for the toilet paper or if it becomes free if it is written on. The note at this point is at least not worth the paper it was written on. But now the majority have already made it clear that those who write something are not going to make any particular profit from it, and I think it is deplorable for cultural life. In the end, I have to say that the representatives Halvorsen and Arnstad raised the confusion at a very high level when they asked the Council of State to clarify what some representatives actually meant in their various posts and to try to clarify something from it. In order to use the word of the representative Giske, I have to say that was an interesting legal understanding of the common relevance and weight of interpretation of legal sources. Then I have to say that Odelstinget might have to think about one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e624	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e627	I understood the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli there that this with the term ‘commercial/non-commercial’ was something that we had drawn into the matter by the majority. I understood the representative leaning there that he felt that making exceptions in some areas was not in line with the directive. I want to quote from Ot.prp. No 46, page 36, paragraph 3.4.1.6, criterion of eligibility: ‘For some of the derogations provided for in the Directive, the use is not ‘commercial’. [[recoverable]] And then it goes on to say that this applies to private sector copying, to the purposeful production of copies in libraries, to the access to broadcasting for certain social institutions, to the access to exploitation of educational and research works and to the access to exploitation of works to meet the particular needs of disabled people. So we are not the ones who have dragged this into the directive, and we are therefore on a safe footing. I registered that the representative Sjøli said that the majority has created uncertainty in this matter. I'll take a sharp distance from that. The uncertainty created in this case is created by the minority, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, especially through the press release that went out long before the proposition was on the web, where there were a number of serious errors that have been rejected both in this room today and in the press release that the majority parties sent out later when we became aware of this. I also noticed that the representative Sjöli thinks it is positive that the government does not get a majority for its MP3 proposal. I am very pleased that the government parties have come to that stand. This is something we fought hard and long for in the few months that this case has been being treated, but now we feel, as said, that we are on a safe basis. Of course, when it comes to the practical design of this paragraph, it is possible to discuss how such a paragraph should be formulated. The representative Skei Grande said something about this EU directive being obsolete, and it says something about things going fast. That is why it is smart to have a technology-neutral formulation, as the majority have, and we also believe it is the easiest way to get through with the EU. Therefore, it is strongly recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e647	It is with some wonder that I have followed this debate. I have to say, of course, that the acceleration that this matter has got in the media gives reason to follow the debate in this Chamber. The more strange it is to experience that both the Minister of Culture and the representatives of the government parties are almost speaking into an understanding of both the comments and the laws that not only contribute to weakening the situation of rightholders, but also contribute greatly to weakening the law in relation to how to understand it against the international conventions we are affiliated to. I find that strange. I also find it strange to hear the exasperation that the Minister of Culture is now putting on the table in relation to both hearing after and reading the comments that are actually written, in close connection with each other and in what context it is. I am not going to go into the work on the legal work force and who should have the competence to comment on it, but it is quite clear that what is now said in this room in relation to the law-worker must be crucial for how to actually understand it. And then we hear that both the one and the other party are going up with a clear definition of how to interpret to the extent that it's unclear. I have to say, as far as the question of the use of material on the Internet is concerned, it has been clarified clearly, not only here in the hall, but also outside the hall, that this is of course about legally published material. They're talking about non-commercial business. In many ways the rightholders are not deprived of any market by saying what you do, and you are also talking about printing to a reasonable extent. And to all the over-measures, both in note and from the main speaker and from the other parties, it is said that the use of protected material is to be decided in negotiation, so that consideration is ensured. Then, in my opinion, it would be important for a government ring to turn the ring around both these arguments and these comments, so that you can clarify and find out that this is an understanding that you also agree with. In my opinion, this is entirely in line with what the Committee on Intellectual Property at the Universities and Universities has said in their original investigation, which was issued on 8 October 2003, which I am now unable to address in particular, but which concerns this area. It clearly shows, as shown on page 59 of the Proposition, how difficult it is, but that there is a room there in relation to colleges and universities and non-commercial spheres that it is also important to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e658	The Breathwork Act is a central law for all kinds of mental works in our country. In the debate, artistic subjects are most often brought to the fore in this context. However, I would also like to stress here the importance of this law for the education sector, not least in relation to universities and higher education institutions. Having a good professional output is an important prerequisite for maintaining a high professional level in research and education. It is therefore with concern and wonder that I have followed the debate on copyright in the last few days, and not least the debate that has taken place in the Chamber today. The Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party form together a majority of comments that signal or can signal, as I see it, a new and dangerous way in terms of the position of the professional writers, the possibilities and not least the motivation to drive professional production. The notes indicate that these batches want all material legally placed on the web to be available free of charge for use at universities and universities. This is believed to be based on an interpretation of the legal status in the area of the fact that if a writer accepts that a work is posted online, the author has also implicitly accepted further use for teaching. In the view of the Right, this is a wrong policy and does not keep water, neither in relation to Norwegian law nor in relation to the international conventions Norway is bound by. Free use sounds nice, but it'll be a short term joy. One thing is that it is at the limit of the indecent use of the law to avoid payment for the work of the authors. The dramatic thing is, however, that this will undermine the professional production in our country and in turn make our academic environments more professionally poor. In addition, even less access to good scientific literature written in Norwegian and using Norwegian as a professional and academic language will be possible. This is short-term politics, and I am more than surprised when a party like the Socialist Left joins in this – a party that otherwise likes to talk about quality and professional diversity. How do you think this will affect future professional production in our country? It is not a credible policy, either from the Socialist Left Party or from their partners. We have now received the signals. Is this one of the grips we'll see if a new red-green government gets control of culture and education policy? At least everyone with an interest in Norwegian education and research policy should be aware of this, and not least those who are concerned that we should continue to have a law that ensures Norwegian academic writers working conditions and rights even in our digital age.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e671	When I listen to this debate, like Ibsen, I remember – ‘If I hammer or hammer, it will be moaned like that’. Trond Giske has explained the Labour Party's position on this matter. I actually feel the need to inform the representative Sjøli and others who spread confusion, that it is allowed to disagree politically, but to characterise the comments of political opponents as mature for dung etc. I guess it's a mess even from the formed Right People. Because in his eagerness to defend his government, therefore, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party go against their own government. So a little adult education. The majority of the Grand Duchy shall define the majority's view. That should be very clear, and it should be an overeager state secretary to save us. So now the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have had an entire department to work too fully, but then they go against their own government. The size was not satisfied with what they got from the department, and so changed it. Let's disagree politically, but let's be decent. If the representative Olemic Thommessen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Ola T. Lånke have such a propriety, they go up to the pulpit and say, "Sorry, we were wrong, our press release was crazy, we've spread lies about our opponents and apologize." Then we're going to show forgiveness. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e683	I would first like to state the following: We are currently dealing with the copyright law, in my opinion, perhaps the most important cultural law. In this case, it has taken a rather interesting majority, against the Government's proposals, in a number of eye-catching areas. There might be reason to wonder why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left will follow a line which in areas could clearly lead to a weakening of authors' rights to live by their intellectual works. It doesn't help that the same parts promise 1 pst. by the State budget for culture, or the introduction of a separate cultural law if it comes to power against presumption. There will be small amounts of money in relation to the values that are at stake if copyright is undermined. This majority then, in their comments – despite many attempts at new explanations in the debate today – write in a way that still needs to be understood as allowing the public sector to supply itself freely with material posted on the Internet, without making it dependent on the consent of or payment to the author. After the debate in the media has reached a certain temperature, I see that the majority point out that they write in the notes that ‘The use of protected material shall be decided upon in negotiations’. For the authors, these are very unclear. Who's going to negotiate? What is to be negotiated about? Why should a new regime be introduced at all? There is an uncertainty here that will make it difficult for rightholders to obtain money and undermine their negotiating position in the future. So we don't know who's going to pay, just who's not going to pay. If I know the majority right, they're probably thinking about the state taking the bill. It will still mean that states and municipalities will not have any financial burden in their use of copyright. Let me then ask a question: why should non-commercial public enterprises be entitled to use copyright free of charge, if any, paid by the State, where others have to pay? In the opinion of the Right, it is totally unacceptable that the public favours itself at the expense of some professionals. We clearly believe that where the public needs copyright, those who actually use it should have the same consent to such use as the author does, and on the same lines as others pay for it. And why is it that non-commercial, well branding public business is not going to pay, while the Red Cross or another private actor has to keep paying? What does this say about respect for authors' production? Electricity, rent, paper, all goods and services are to be paid for, but not copyright. What attitudes does this create? Would it make it easier to gain an understanding of the audience because copyright is a service for which it is also important to pay? The majority have wanted to change the course of Norwegian copyright legislation, let go of it. But then they must also explain what is meant! Now there are only more questions raised than there is given the answer, and so far disturbing answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e707	I think my first big cultural experience that I remember happened exactly where the Council of State now has its office. There lay the legendary Café Magnet, in 1955-1956 the only night café in Norway, the only restaurant in Oslo that was open after eleven o'clock. It was only for taxi drivers, firemen and policemen. Not even SV wants to go back to those times. [[Laughter]] There was a Wurlitzer jukebox in the veneer that had 24 1978 plates. I was allowed to play on it, and I remember it. Today's edition we put in our pocket, and it can take the x number of thousands of sounds. I want to try to look forward. That's why I'm looking back first, to see where I'm from, and how development has been, and then to look a little bit forward. Furthermore, I remember the mechanical calculator I had. I also remember my first office and my first company, where I had a telex, which was the size of the president's desk, so that I could send a written message to others. I remember as a student I was at the data center of Norway in Hamar, where you had a computer about the size of the room here, and that just 30 years ago had a computer power that we put on our inner pocket today. Why am I saying this? Well, because those people who deal with today's technology and have turned their noses forward far more than we have, are not involved in this debate. They're not represented. The law we are now adopting has been adopted elsewhere in Europe. I've had contact with so-called party friends in other countries, and it's the same debate that we have here today, with some other shades, but it's the same basic problem with DRM and things like that. Then it turns out that in the youth organisations, also in our youth organization, there are completely different attitudes, and not only attitudes, but also insights that are on a completely different level and a completely different planet than what we ourselves have. I think that the biggest challenges in copyright and copyright are at two levels, one is about technology, and the other is about the next generation. The generation that comes after us – and it will be completely independent of political color, believe me, you'll see it's from dark red to black – is going to have a completely different attitude to these questions than what we have today. What we need to start immediately is to communicate with those who master today's technology, who understand where it goes. Then we have to make them understand, and we also have to get our own insight into what consequences that insight and understanding will have for the spirit and for the reward.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e724	When the representative Trond Giske pulls the Workers' Party into rainbow coalitions that not only cover the hues in green and red, but also the ultraviolet, the Progress Party, then there is reason to follow closely in the hour. I remember the nursery arrangement in this period, which reminds me until confusion. No decision has caused the voters more frustration and the political parties in this room greater headache than exactly that reconciliation. There is one way to pursue policies that are not highly recommendable, namely to base such an agreement between parties that everyone knows is wildly dissenting and has wildly different cultural policies, on as much clarity as possible. That's actually what's in the majority remarks in this committee position. These are two fundamental problems that need to be resolved. The first concerns the MP3 point and how the majority themselves perceives the wording that it should be allowed for private users to use it as ‘generally considered as relevant playback equipment’. The level of precision in such a formulation makes a sailor appear to be made in concrete, compared to this. I have not met a single lawyer who at all suggests the possibility of a decision with this wording being within the framework of the EU Directive. Now, of course, it is permitted for the Storting with open eyes to take decisions that are contrary to a directive. The question is whether it is wise to order a long delay in the matter and then get it back and revise it. With regard to the second point in dispute, namely the rights of authors to material made available through new and modern technology, it must be noted that the majority of the comments are clearly on a collision course with the security rules contained in the Berne Convention in order to safeguard copyright. It is also clear that there is something that breaks up the Nordic legal unit in this area and that there will be considerable uncertainty about the professional production in Norway. Doing so in such an easy way, and with such a low level of precision, could not be a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e740	This was a bit of a heated debate, you could say. But it is interesting that one representative after another from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party needs to make clarifications and not least stress that the debate here in Odelstinget is an important legal source. I'm not going to hope for it, but I'm going to interpret it as saying that today, important things have been said to help correct the comments they have made themselves. Only time will show whether these clarifications will contribute to a necessary correction. This will probably be a lawyer's and a lawyer's food, and it'll be up to them to read this. Then I have not registered that the case rapporteur, Knudsen of the Progress Party, has had any need to make corrections or clarifications in the debate today in relation to the same comments. Like the previous speaker, it leads me to believe that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have let themselves be led to a great extent by the Progress Party in an important cultural matter. Finally, another small visit to the representative Knudsen. The Progress Party has always been a hot defender of private rights, whether it is ownership or other commercial rights. But in the case of copyright, it seems that one is willing to grant the state and the public an extended access to take over without remuneration. I don't want to use words like ‘expropriation’, but I have to admit that word for through my head. And then we're just going to keep hoping that we can put some of the kind of uplifting statements that have come, whether they were in press releases or in the debate, and then we're going to look at the substance of what we've been saying. From my side, I can only express the fact that I do not need to admit anything or ask for any forgiveness, as the representative Fallet urged me. I think I would recommend that everyone look at what we've said, and we stand by every word we've expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e751	When the representative is quoting Ibsen: ‘If I am hammered or hammered, there is to be jams,’ one should listen in the name of propriety, for then an expert is to be heard. I have listened with great interest to the opposition's posts here today, and to me it seems that there is a broad retreat in relation to what they have said and that is in the setting. It is clear that the majority have created confusion and great uncertainty about this matter. Now I understand that it needs to be cleaned up and clarified afterwards outside this room, if I understood the representative Bergo right away. But of course we should have done that here in Stortinget. Perhaps it is now claimed that all matters have been clarified through this debate. But it is still unclear what is in the remark about the public sector. The note refers to the release for free use. If the representative believes that everything should be like before, why this comment? It is stated in the sentence ‘The use of protected material is decided upon in negotiations’. After today's debate, this sentence still hangs in the loose air. The statement does not become binding until the majority clearly states who is to pay. We have not received an answer to that today. This is a very relevant question, because users, municipalities and county councils and other public institutions do not have to pay. The whole comment is motivated by the fact that it should be free of charge for the public. That's also the point of the Municipalities' Central Association. The party of progress says that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have created uncertainty and uncertainty. It's not just the government parties that have expressed their very doubts about what the majority believes. There is a serious underestimation of large organisations such as Kopinor, Tono, Norwegian professional author and translator association, Norwegian Journalist team, Norwegian Editors' Association and NBL. They have, of course, assessed the observations of the majority and what they will mean for cultural life. So, if I'm finally allowed to make a little explanation of vote: The Government Parties take note that the majority proposal for the third paragraph of Section 53a, the so-called MP3 provision, may be adopted. Government parties have consistently argued that this wording is contrary to the EU directive in this area and continue to believe that questions can be raised in this respect. It is therefore with great doubt – and I very much doubt – that the government parties must vote in favour of this law. In addition, the government parties will support proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e768	Some of the people who have spoken have repeatedly pointed out that the government party in Stortinget has gone against its own government. It was also captured in one of the lines. I was a little too quick when I replied, I believe – I get to check the record afterwards anyway. What I want to clarify is that from the Government we have not protested and refused the Christian People's Party and the Right of the Storting to go in for the law paragraph that applies to copying from CD to MP3. However, we are concerned about this in relation to the EU directive, which was also announced by the representative Sjöli, that one is not quite sure that it is within the directive. In any case, we are sure that what is in the plural proposal is on a collision course with the EU directive. What made us not to deny our party here – I don't know if it would have helped either, it's now – was that the law they've passed on to was that the legal entities through hearing sessions have also said that they support that one can copy over to MP3 players. There is a plural comment in the setting ‘what constitutes relevant equipment in the sense of the law should be understood relatively flexibly. Whether or not a playback device is relevant has to be assessed in a specific case and a central element of this assessment will be the reasonable expectations of the consumer for the product in question’. – There is a vibrate in relation to explanations the majority goes into its wording when it relates to § 53a. Then the representative Trond Giske has been so loving that he has given me a copy of his post. He has suggested that I have not followed, but it is good to have it written too! What he says in his post is exactly what the government's party places in its posts in relation to copying from a copy-blocked CD over to MP3. When you read the explanation in the configuration, it is very open. When a person listens to Knudsen, he says that one should be able to copy over DVDs, digital books, and so on. He adds that to the paragraph formulation they have. Then there's a mild call for SV and the Labour Party, that if they're some of the representatives Giske and Lund Bergo have said from the Chair, and who haven't made it clear enough in the vote, it's the only sensible thing to vote for the Right and Christian People's Party. It also makes our work easier compared to following up the bill. It has also been said by someone that there is a press release from the Right and the Christian People's Party on Monday that has created the major debates in the media. Then I have to say that one stamps all the peoples of the Norwegian community who are occupied with rights to both spirit-holders and everyone else, like people who are easily seduced by a simple press release. They have read the settings, and they are the ones who have responded, without us having to say anything to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e786	Magnar Lund Bergo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e791	I notice that the Council of State still wants us to go in for the comment that the parties of government stand for, while the parties of government have just announced that they will go in for the comment we stand for. Does it mean, then, that the Council of State believes that the Government should form a majority together with the Advance Party on the comment in the vote and that the Workers' Party and the SV should stand on the other? I think those who live by copyright in Norway have good times in front of them. For me, today's debate has appeared as an NM in understanding for copyright and fair remuneration. To MP3: I have also said this in the debate, but the Council of State must then have the ability to hear, and the ability and will to understand, because I said about the proposals that deal with this: ‘... allow copying from a CD and over to an MP3 player, and only so’. And then I said, ‘There is a broad majority in the Storting that such access should not include works from, for example: DVDs, books, electronic files via the Internet or TV applications.» If the Council of State finds this unclear, then I must report the passport!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e808	President! A manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e815	Sonja Sjøli is given the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e821	To a manifest misunderstanding: I am sorry if I expressed myself unclear. What I said was that we take note of the majority proposal. Of course, we are voting in favour of our own proposal, but we cannot vote against the law at the end. That's what was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e828	Three minutes isn't all the world's time, so that's why I need to add something to what I said in my previous post. About the representative Giske used the Council of State earlier in the debate the image that he was provoking. Given the technology level here, I think it is necessary to update the image usage a little bit. It was at least a centre-axle trailer engine with a significant number of horsepower and free exhaust and at least no access to sound at all. But what remains is that this debate has clarified that among the parties that have created a majority in the committee position, there is still an exactly as different reality perception as there was before they found it opportunistic to merge to make some so unprecise formulations that everyone could sign it. It is not quite easy for one to follow up when one is faced with a majority who claims that they have a very clear position, that the intention has always been clear, and that they mean what they have always meant, while interpreting it in a very different way. The problem with this type of majority is that there is a notional majority when they are created between parties which have quite different approaches to important cultural policy issues and which otherwise will always be opposed to each other in cultural policy issues. There's no good way to run politics, at least it's not a serious way to run politics. Let me finally give the representative a unconditional and unreserved compliment. He has put forward a proposal which has been distributed at the premises of the Chamber, proposal No. 8, on behalf of its rainbow coalition, where the Storting is asked to ask the Government to settle in the chaos of the rainbow coalition. We're going to vote for that with enthusiasm, based on the fact that we have a lot more confidence in the government than we do in the rainbow coalition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e839	It could be tempting to get rid of Inge Wage posts that he just made, but it was in itself the previous post that made me jump a little in the chair, when you went to attack the nursery agreement. I thought in my opinion that today's debate was going to be relatively broad, as we're talking about copyright, but that we're going to get to the kindergarten agreement, I think that's interesting. I do not understand that there is disagreement in this room that we are going to build more kindergartens, and that we are going to try to get a maximum price scheme in that area. The problem is between getting the department to join the team. I have the impression that there may also be a problem in this case, in order to draw that parallel. Otherwise, I notice in the debate that when the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party want to open up so that we can track a CD and transfer it to MP3, it is not in line with the Copyright Directive. But when the government parties make a similar formulation, which in practice is exactly the same, it's totally OK. Kaoset becomes complete when Sonja Sjøli begins to indicate that you might think of voting subsidiaryly, etc., and says that the principles are the same. Then I don't understand much of it. I also do not understand very much of the representative's attack on the wording that the majority has applied. He says it's not exhaustive, it's hard to interpret, etc. If the representative Wohnung had lifted his eyes one and two sections up, he would have seen that the definitions were there. And if he had also moved his gaze over the next page, he would have seen that it says three, four sections that actually deepen what the majority believes in this context. So it's about not getting involved in the debate when you haven't read more than one section.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e850	No wages were violently over the proposal that we are behind. Then, of course, it sounds a little strange when we get a explanation of vote saying that it should be voted for the law at the end. Then it becomes a little weird. Then I'm afraid it might not be clear when Sonja Sjöli asked the assembly to listen to me because I was an expert on the quote from Ibsen. But I'm not the expert. That's what Henrik Ibsen is!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e857	When a minority government gets the majority against itself in one case, it can handle it in two ways. You can choose to say that there is very little real difference, minimize the difference, and claim that the majority really agrees with the Government, so that's not the big difference. That's one way. The other way is to make the distance as far as possible, to push the majority of opinions and opinions that the majority does not have, and then to set in motion a storm against the projected majority views. The government has chosen the last way in this matter. You got it wrong at first. One was made aware that one had misunderstood, and then one chose to continue pretending that one misunderstood, even after one really understood that one had misunderstood. It is in so far as it is a proper way for a government to reveal itself when it does not get a majority for its own views or when it does not get its own parties into its own formulations and interpretations of the legal texts. But I think it's sad that the government here has also been hurt to mislead the opinion. It also seduces a lot of cultural workers, asking them to actually pay a few hundred thousand dollars on big newspaper ads, which are completely unnecessary, because they're fighting something that's not real, but that's misunderstood views and a misconception. This is no theft of copyright. So all the speakers for the majority parties in this Chamber have made that clear. If the government had chosen the first strategy and tried to interpret the majority in its own direction, there would have been no problems later for courts and lawyers, because then there would have been a total increase that in several areas drew understanding in the same direction. Therefore, those who had tried to invoke the interpretation chosen by the government and the minority here would not have come to justice, because the debate, which is a basis for interpretation of the law, would have been unambiguous. So here the government and government parties, because they didn't get a majority, even among themselves, for the MP3 proposal and are annoyed by it, fooled the whole debate, made problems for cultural workers and made problems for the courts. Finally, let me say for once that I agree with the heart of what Eirin Fallet said in his post, that if you had been honest and honest, you would have been much more mature and said, "We apologize for our misunderstanding, and that we have maintained that misunderstanding after we realized that it was a misunderstanding." And we apologize for having seduced cultural workers to waste a lot of money on unnecessary whole-page advertisements in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e868	The supporters of the Right Sister Party in the United States, the Republicans, ran a campaign against Kerry where they told me he wasn't really a war hero. He had cheated on all the medals in Vietnam. It was fake. Witnesses stood up and told how they were saved, but it ended with 20-30 pst. by the American people believed in the claims. It must be the same strategy they have learned in the Right when, for example, Hogsnes is standing on the pulpit here and still says that rightholders will lose consideration. They won't lose any consideration. We are in the midst of a constructive track when Sonja Sjøli and Ola T. Lånke no longer repeat the claims in a press release that authors are deprived of the right to payment, or must give consent to use at all. Now it's like there's no forgiveness before you repent, but you're on the right track. I think I understand a little bit why the representative Sjøli has misunderstood, because she refers to the concept of ‘free use’ in non-commercial activities, which is also an expression the proposition uses. It's not about free use. It's about the right to use, but of course for remuneration. That's the understanding of the proposition. That's the understanding of the setting. It might be a source of misunderstanding here, but it's because you haven't gotten into the terminology that exists. I have never experienced a government that so fiercely struggles to convince the Storting and the outside world that they have lost in Stortinget. So we're going to have a little bit of an impact here on the compensation arrangements. You have an impact on all the legal paragraphs that will apply, and you have a majority with an understanding that is in line with what the Government wants. Nevertheless, the Council of State stands here and says, "I've lost." I've lost. I've lost. It's to live with the loss of the Council of State. But it is serious because it can affect the interests of rightholders. The Council of State must understand that she is today not a candidate for a big deal in a desperate struggle for the last mandate in Akershus, but that she is the Council of State to administer the legislation adopted. The MP3 has given an interesting picture. The representative on the payroll has called for clarity in the rainbow coalition. After he strongly advised Odelstinget to adopt the majority’s legislative wording, the High Representative, Sonja Sjøli, has gone up and recommended that the Right should vote in favour of it after his own proposal has fallen. It will be interesting to see whether Inge Wohnung continues to maintain its strong warning that it is irresponsible to adopt this legislative formula. It is not unknown that laws are passed in Odelstinget, where the majority have different interpretation views. I can find many odelsting settings where it shows up. Now, at least, it becomes clear – and then we are also on a constructive track – that the majority of those who vote, because it becomes a unanimous ovulation that is in favour of this, believe that an interpretation that is only about CD to MP3 should be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e883	The next speaker is Sonja Irene Sjøli. The representative, Mr. Sjøli, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e886	The Progress Party is once again trying to present it as if the Right would vote in favour of a proposal – so I explained that in my explanation of vote. Carl I. Hagen claims that the government parties have led cultural life. There is a serious underestimation of large cultural organisations, which, of course, have assessed the content of the majority voting on an independent basis. In conclusion, the representative fell into this quote. I know that it is not the representative Fallen who has stood behind that guise. But she used the quote herself to characterize the government parties, and then I allowed myself to say that when it was quoted by the Fall, it was actually an expert who spoke out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e895	The next speaker is Inge Wohnning. The representative has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e898	I note with interest that the representative Giske has been caught up in the party secretary Kolberg's new three-thirty rhetoric, only with the difference that it was called "The trade movement! The trade union movement! The trade union movement!" Had he followed it, he might not have been at war with the whole of Culture Norway, for this is actually about the rights of trade unionists. When representatives Hagen and Giske are very obsessive, Kultur-Norge explains that they cannot read, it is a little surprising – with respect to reporting. Correctly, there are studies showing that 20 pst. by the Norwegian population have problems reading when they leave school, but I didn't think the 20 pst. primarily belonged to cultural workers. They're actually able to read. They have every reason to worry. And the only good thing that has come out of this reverse operation on the part of the rainbow coalition is the proposal that they've put out in the hall, where they ask the government to clean up the chaos they've created themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e905	A peach here on the house should be very careful when he expresses himself about a representative who has been sitting here for more than 30 years. It's a fact that very many in this room, and also outside, of course listen carefully when the representative Carl I. Hagen speaks. But after 30 years at Stortinget, unfortunately, he doesn't seem to have gotten along as much on how to achieve political goals through the law. When the representative Giske raises his voice and says that something is clear, there is not much guidance. But Giske has a point, which is that more and more and more people in this house are making decisions where those who agree on this decision disagree with each other on what you really mean. It's not without reason that justudents, lawyers, lawyers and judges tear their hair over what you actually sit and write in notes in this house. It's not without reason that the lawyers' salaries increase and increase, when politicians who disagree completely say they agree on something, but they have three widely differing positions on what they're really saying they have one point of view. So this debate hasn't brought a lot of clarity. I have to say, of course, that the representative on the pay side had a very good point when he said that the proposal for a review of the effect of this law is very necessary and that we are going to vote in favour of it with enthusiasm. I don't think that was an exaggeration, it was rather an understatement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e917	Ola T. Loan has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e920	I think there is a need for clarification to us in the Chamber, because both the Workers' Party and SV in the debate have said that in the case of copying from CD with a copy lock to MP3, § 53 should only be concerned with this. The problem has also been that it should do the same, but it has previously been based on some kind of technology neutrality understanding. I can only see that the parties that so clearly express that only MP3 should be able to vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties, and will invite them once again to do so, in order to ensure a better law in this area. I also asked the Knudsen to clarify what he really means, whether he believes only MP3, or whether he believes that it should still be open when it comes to copying.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e927	Eirin Fallet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e930	In this debate, as in so many debates, we must agree to disagree. At least we can confirm that. And then I want to say that it's not so very interesting if Inge Wohnung is standing here and hesitating about the rainbow coalition – I guess that was a word he made. Cooperation goes across, and it knows Inge Wage very well. And it's true what's come out today, that in fact, right now, they're cooperating with the Progress Party, despite the fact that they don't want anything to do with the Party. In order to achieve a goal that is important for the party, we cooperate with the Progress Party – in the revised national budget. So that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e937	I am registering the invitation and the invitation from the representative Lånke, but my view of this area has been explained both in my main post and in the three-minute post I had. Then I see no need to repeat further from this pulpit what has been said both one, two and maybe three times in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e942	Trond Giske has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e945	MP3 is now clear, it's going to be a unanimous odelsting in the end, and a majority that bases the sloping interpretation. For example, we're separating. team with the Progress Party also with regard to DRM legislation – here we have different views. Sonja Sjøli asked why we had at all addressed our comments on the question of implicit consent and free use in the non-commercial sector. That's because the proposition deals with this; they tried to base a definition that we didn't include and that we have a different definition of. However, these are private-law agreements to be settled between the parties – and finally in a courtroom, if that is so far. I finally record that the Council of State still will not accept that Odelstinget has agreed that the rightholders have full remuneration. I am absolutely convinced that the remuneration organisations and stakeholder organisations are happy that this is what Odelstinget is doing, and we are hoping that the Minister of Culture will not use his work for months to come to September 12, for anything else. She has every reason to fight for the copyright holders instead of fighting them and base the worst possible interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e954	The size may feel quite certain that I am going to follow up the decisions that will be taken here today. We are going to use both the debate here today and everything that has been said in the Chamber as a background to the further legislative work, and take the consequences it will have for Culture-Noreg. After all, only the future will show you what's going to happen. But I want to stress that when it's exactly what goes on copy locks and MP3 and CD, that's not the free imagination of what we can do from the department. So here's a legal text, the law paragraph is in the setting, and there's two different legal paragraphs that you can vote for. The one person who has been sent to us to the Ministry of Commentary, we have clearly stated whether there is a clear contradiction with the EU directive. Nevertheless, the plurality in Stortinget to vote for him. The second is more uncertain if it is in breach of the EU directive. That paragraph might be easier to go through, because the legal entities have agreed that he can be used. Here the Storage itself has a possibility to prepare. What I realize is that all of them are a few things about, except for the Progress Party, maybe, is what you should be able to copy, and what a format you should be allowed to copy. Therefore, I actually thought that the uncertainty had become easier for both the lawyers and for the follow-up if one had chosen the minority's formulations. The challenge is yet to come. With the majority of its wording, the Ministry has clearly stated in its reply to the Committee that the paragraph is contrary to the EU directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e961	No more have asked for the floor on case No 1. [[Footing, see page 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e977	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and to each independent representative and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following an intervention by the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e986	The proposals for changes to the Education Act and the Law that we are dealing with today are essentially a legal follow-up to the Culture for Learning Storing Communication. The proposal for legislative changes by the Government affects several aspects. There is unanimous agreement in the Committee's position on several of these amendments. It concerns the proposal to divide primary school into a childhood and early childhood, the proposal for new titles at the level and groups of upper secondary education subjects, the provisions on year-to-year appointment of the principals and the proposal to clarify the responsibility of the school owner for the development of competence. There is also unanimous support for the bill for the establishment of curricula and the scope of training, but here the various party fractions use the opportunity to express views on the work on new curricula. A majority, the government parties and the Progress Party believe that the amendment of the law opens the way for the provision of regulations derogating from the curricula for specific student groups in need of alternative teaching arrangements, without this being defined as special education. For government parties, it is important to point out that the purpose of the change is simplification and not segregation of students with different types of training needs. I refer here to the comments in the setting. A minority disagrees with this. They believe that curricula should apply to all pupils, and will not allow them to exempt certain groups of pupils. There is also agreement to introduce school environmental committees at all schools. Here, there are minority proposals that go beyond the Government's proposals, among others. on the composition of the upper secondary and upper secondary school sample shall have its own school environment selection. There is also agreement to extend the right to secondary education for young people to the end of the year they are 24 years old. At the same time, the current rules on completion of initial training must be continued within five years respectively. Here is a joint committee to at the same time ask the Government to come back with proposals to introduce general secondary education rights regardless of age. In working on such a proposal in the ministry, we will be able to identify all the consequences and the expected major legal changes that need to be made. A majority consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party are in favour of authorising the Government to prescribe regulations which may require the counties to reimburse expenditure in connection with higher education and are shunted in another State. The Government will, before it does so, issue proposals for regulations in the normal way of consultation. The aim of this legislative change is to keep all opportunities open for a freer choice of high school across state boundaries. A minority in the Committee opposes this proposal. A majority of the Committee, all except SV, supports the Government's proposal to introduce police attestations in high school employment. There has been a different view on the design of such a police certificate, but the majority believe the certificate should show whether it is intended, accused or convicted of sexual assault. That's how we get common rules throughout basic training. Here, too, there are a few minority proposals that the rapporteurs will put forward. The government also made proposals to simplify the treatment of special education cases. The aim of the proposal is to continue the right to special education but to simplify the procedure so that individual decisions can be taken more quickly for the benefit of students and to contribute to the use of resources for student contacts rather than extensive investigative work. A majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that these proposals may weaken the right to special education and therefore oppose the proposals. The minority from the government parties notes that there is no majority in the Government's proposal. I refer here to the comments in the setting. The Christian People's Party today is pleased that there is a stir to extend the right of young people to secondary education to 24 years of age. We believe this increased flexibility will increase young people's ability to take secondary education and qualify for a modern working life. With regard to the proposal to simplify special education procedures, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to continue the right to special education. It is now important to calm the sector and the ministry should monitor the development of the use of special education through active supervision of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1009	The amendments to the training law currently under consideration by the Committee are essentially a follow-up to the St.meldung. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. The changes cover the entire initial — from primary to secondary — education. The quality selection setting and the resulting grossing-up message have been widened. There is broad political consensus around key areas to increase the learning outcomes of pupils. I'm glad. In many areas, there is also an overall committee that delivers its position today. So thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council, Arne Lyngstad, who has led this work! All members of the Church, Education and Research Committee have a desire to make the Norwegian school better, but we do not always agree on what will be the right instruments. In some key areas of this setting, the Workers' Party believes that the Government is not doing the right thing, unfortunately. In particular, this applies to special education, Chapter 5 of the Training Act. The Labour Party believes that there is a great need to strengthen adapted training and that the right to special education is maintained. Unfortunately, we feel that the Department, with its proposal, is in favour of weakening this court. For the treatment of St.meld. No 30 said a joint committee on special education: «The Committee assumes that this right is not impaired by changes in procedural requirements or requirements for individual training plans.» I have to say that I can hardly see anything other than that the changes proposed by the Department and the government parties go in, break with the overall committee stated less than a year ago. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee is committed to the previous majority remark. This means that the requirement for expert judgement and the arrangements for the individual training plan are established. Although we are not in favour of the Ministry's proposals for changes in this field, it is of course important that we keep working on it to achieve improvements in special education. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee are asking the Government to review the place of special education in school, and I am surprised – again – that the government parties will not participate in this proposal either. But I hope that the Council of State today can question that the Ministry will carry out a proper review of this field. An extension of the right to secondary education is, of course, the Workers' Party's support. We believe that the goal must be a general right, regardless of age, and therefore ask the Government to present such a proposal to the Stortinget. We believe that this will help even more people to complete a 13 year course of education. Finally, a little about free school choice — or quality-based school choice, which is a more comprehensive name. ‘Geographical differences, different school structures and the need for school kissing in the different counties indicate that a statutory right to free school choice would not be appropriate.’ This is actually in the party program of the Christian People's Party for the next bigotry period. It's not the law that the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and the Progress Party, is in favour of today, but there's little doubt as to what is the goal of the changes that the majority at this point is in favour of. Compared to private schools, the government has weakened the county authority over the secondary school offer. Now we see that the government also wants to do it relative to intake. It is regrettable that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are in favour of once again weakening our local democracy. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1034	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1037	This setting mainly deals with proposals that follow up the treatment of the message Culture for learning, which is an important step forward towards the realization of the Knowledge promise. Most of it is uncontroversial, so I will limit myself to commenting on a few of the questions mentioned in the settings. There is no disagreement that it is worrying that the number of students entering secondary education without completing education shows signs of increase. There is therefore full support for the Government's proposal to extend the right to secondary education for young people until the end of the year of their age of 24 years and the proposal to make the legislation more flexible. Hopefully, these measures will lead to better implementation in secondary education. There is also agreement within the Committee to ask the Government to come back with proposals to introduce a general right to secondary education completely independent of age. This issue has been debated for a long time, and for many, it seems immediately artificial to maintain a limit of age for young people at the same time as adults born before 1978, but who are totally or partly lacking in secondary education, have the right to complete secondary education. Now the matter is not quite so simple that you can go straight to a decision on this. It is therefore good that the Stortinget gives the Government the opportunity to examine all aspects of this before any decision is taken. The aim must be to maximise the completion of secondary education or to ensure equivalent final competence. The matter which has led to the greatest debate in connection with this proposition is undoubtedly the proposal for amendments to the rules of procedure for special education. In the name of the debate, it has been argued that the Government's proposal really means removing the law's right to special education. This isn't right. The right to special education was maintained in the Government proposal, just as the Committee provided for during the treatment of Culture for learning. There is no factual basis for claiming that the Government's proposal weakens the formal position of students or supervisors in the matter of special education. At the same time, however, the Government made an attempt to follow up another part of the Committee's unanimous remark in the setting of Culture for learning, 'while there is a need to work specifically to reduce its use'. It is also an objective to facilitate the strengthening of general adapted training for all pupils, also in order to avoid peer pressure into special education where it is not necessary. However, special education shall be provided as a safety net in situations where the school does not reach sufficient length of general adapted training. Now, however, we must note that there is no political majority to change the rules of procedure for special education in line with the Government's proposal. So we keep the rules of the day. But sail if there's no change now, it seems at the same time to be fully agreed that you can't settle down with today's situation. It is difficult to draw any other conclusion when we see that the majority is proposing a new review of the place of special education in Norwegian school. It's hard to see that another investigation should be able to provide very high professional benefits. More studies have been carried out on the various aspects of the special field of education in the later years, and probably there is a greater lack of courage and ability to take decisions than knowledge of the actual situation. Government parties therefore agree to ask the Government to follow up on developments in the use of special education through active school supervision. It may not be surprising that the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are opposed to the Government's proposal to change the regulatory home, so that proposals may be brought back in the direction of freer school choices in higher education. Here, there is a distrust of freedom of choice and maritime regulation that is quite clear, seafaring whether it is a matter of choice between public offers. But there would have been an advantage if the opposition could carefully argue with the state politicians’ ability to make choices – which was better than the students’ and parents’ ability to make choices – instead of making unfounded claims about Oslo’s experience. There is no basis for saying that the Oslo experience shows that free choice of school provides ‘most students with a more narrow and segregated education provision’. For short, I would now like to refer carefully to the documentation provided by the government parties in the setting, and mention in particular three reports, the LEARNing Lab's report 68/2000, a report by the Sociological Institute at the University of Oslo and, in addition, a slightly older report prepared by Fafo in its time. At the end of the day, the Grand Duchy opens up the year-end appointment of Vice-Chancellors. This is a matter which, when it was launched a few years ago, created a violent wedding. Today, it happens unanimously and without comments, and I think it is positive that the Storting is now taking part in a forward-looking decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1060	This is a collection case with a number of changes to the Training Act. I will immediately record the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. I'm going to start with a change that's not being implemented. No changes are made to the rules of procedure for special education. The Progress Party is pleased that we are supported by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and that the Government's proposals on this point are rejected. We actually see this as an attack on the legal security of students and parents, a legal certainty we are committed to protecting. At the same time, we believe it is wrong to make changes within this field – if changes are to be made – before we have delivered what Stortinget has ordered several times, and a long time ago. I can address that to the previous speakers. What Stortinget has ordered is a broad review of the place of special education in Norwegian school. We will assess the use of resources and the results as well as the state support system. We've got fragments of this presented in some things, but not in a good and unifying way, and we want to do that. We're glad that a majority repeats the order, and now expect the government to be able to deliver as well. Finally, the case has come to put in place the legal provisions on school environmental committees. The case has had an unacceptable lack of propulsion. The decision following the submission in October 2002 was that the Stortinget asked the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals by the end of March 2003. Today we write June 2005. For the Progress Party, school environment selection is important for the learning environment and an important tool in combating bullying in Norwegian school. Therefore, it is particularly incomprehensible that the government has been so busy in this case, when it has at the same time had a so-called action against bullying in the period 2002–2004. At the same time, the school environment committee is an important venue for both pupils and parents. The Party considers that this should be ensured throughout basic education and therefore proposes that parents should have a place in the school environment committee for secondary schools and, as in primary school, that representatives of pupils and parents should be given a majority. The Progress Party also promotes proposals for statutory operating boards in all public schools and organised in such a way that parental representatives have a majority. The Progress Party remains alone in this respect. We are therefore confirmed that it is only the Progress Party that will give parents increased influence and governance in the school. One area in this case is the Progress Party well pleased with. This concerns the requirement for a police record to be employed in high school. Here it is the original proposal of the Progress Party which is now fully implemented, first through the Government proposal and then through broad support here in Odelstinget through support from the Workers' Party. I remind you that the amendment of the law is based on Document No. 8:26 for 2003-2004, from the Progress Party, which got a majority in diluted form, but it ends with a change in the law as originally proposed. The original is still the best! With that change, we get equal treatment for students throughout basic education, including at this important point concerning the safety of students in relation to those who are targeted, accused or convicted of sexual abuse of children. That's good. But still a few important things remain about this issue. The Progress Party believes that people who are actually convicted of sexual abuse should not be hired in school. The Party considers that persons who are admitted and who are sighted or accused cannot continue and should continue work that leads to contact with students at school. We know of outrageous cases from the media about such cases. The Progress Party also believes that persons who are employed and who are convicted of sexual assault are to be dismissed from their position. The Party considers that this should and may be subject to particularly strict requirements in respect of persons working with pupils in basic training. Both pupils and parents should feel as secure as possible at school. There is no right for adults to become teachers, but primary school students should be entitled to the best possible protection against possible sexual abuse and possible sexual abusers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1079	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1082	As the rapporteur explained, SV supports several of the amendments that exist. I'm glad that the government's proposal to change procedures for students who are going to have special education, or perhaps more precise, special arrangements, is not promoted here in the hall. There is and shall be consistency between an expert investigation and individual training plans. The principles now established are that before a school produces individual training plans for pupils who are required to have special education, an expert study is to be carried out. The expert review must therefore be the basis for the individual training plan. The plan is the contract between the school, the students and the parents. We see that the proposal, which is not now being promoted here in the Chamber, would have weakened the students' rights, and it would be an unfortunate signal to give, especially to those students who need to organize everybody, most of all. We don't think the amendment to Chapter 5 would have pushed further into special education. We have the same desire as the Government and the majority here in the United Kingdom that the need for special education should be reduced, that as many students as possible receive training adapted to their assumptions and abilities, and then they do not need special arrangements, that is special education. We do not believe that the procedures that are there today, which are now to remain there, are helping to push more people out into special education, rather on the contrary. If the government had got what it wanted, there was no longer a need for expert judgment. Now the expert assessment is there as a brake, hopefully, so that one does not push students into special education, students who the schools might want to get into special education. Another proposal is to extend youth rights to 24 years of age. As part of the Competence Reform, we have granted all adults the right to secondary education regardless of age. Adults who have not been given the opportunity to complete secondary education now have a right to an education offer. We believe that the time has come to remove the provision for an upper age for the withdrawal of juveniles. We don't think youth will speculate in this. There will still be pressure on young people to go to high school while they are young and not wait until they get older. I am pleased that a majority supports us in asking the Government to consider whether to consider whether to remove the age gap that is now there, so that we do not attach it to a particular age, but goes for a general provision that you have the right to secondary education. The Government is empowered to govern the rules of entry of the county council. In practice, this means that the Ministry is empowered to establish rules on cross-municipality admissions. This is to extend the powers of the Government, and we've seen a trend in the latest legislation that we get powers laws where we leave more and more to the Department through regulations. We think this is an unfortunate development. We also see this as a step on the way to what someone calls free schooling or quality-based school choices. That is why we are going against this. A key principle is that the curriculum, as adopted, should cover all pupils. So let's make that clear. The government now wants to have the opportunity to say that some student groups should not be included in the curriculum. We think it is important that we have a common curriculum. Although there are students who are just going to learn a small part of what's in the curriculum, it's awfully important that this is common to all. That is why we are taking note of this proposal. We also propose setting up a school environment committee for private schools, or schools under the law on high school education, and we also have an amended proposal on police certification. We want to limit this to people who have been convicted, and this is consistent with what a minority said when we dealt with Document No. 8:26 for 2003-2004. I am somewhat surprised that we stand alone with this proposal. I address our suggestions as they are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1105	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1108	As the setting indicates, there are some basic disagreements between the Central Party and the Government in the proposition field. In the second area, we think it is necessary to specify in relation to the proposition. Let me first refer to the amendment that opens up to the ministry to decide that the curriculum should not apply to certain student groups. The curriculum has different objectives of factual knowledge, skills and goals for the development of analytical skills and self-reflection. Today, students will achieve different goals. That's how we understand the curriculum. For this purpose, curricula shall be valid for all elephants. The Central Party supports the proposal of Sections 2-3 and 3-4 under the clear rule that there is no discretion to decide that the curriculum should not be applicable to specific student groups. The centre party is very pleased that a broad majority opposes the proposal of the Ministry to remove the requirement for expert judgement. The background is clear: students’ right to an individual training plan and the school’s obligation to draw up such a plan should be based on expert judgement. The individual training plan is the actual contract between the school, the student and the trainees and shall form the basis for the cooperation on the individual student. We are also pleased that there are a number of proposals in which the Stortinget asks for a thorough review of the special education place and the work of and organisation of the state support system. When it comes to young people’s right to further training, the Ministry suggests that they can take out justice before they reach the age of 24. Centre party supports this extension. At the same time, we would stress that all those lacking further training should be motivated to start a training course. Actually, we mean that it's a little premeditated to operate with an upper age limit. We are therefore pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to come back with a proposal to introduce a general right to further training regardless of age. We find it necessary to remind the Council of State that today's births are rejected when they are admitted to continuing training, and that county councils also aim to give birth to the training they are entitled to, often because of the poor economy. Unfortunately, the government has also received several numbers for its cuts in continuing training for adults during this ageing period. To the question of police clearance, the Central Party will refer to Innst. O. No 82 for 2003-2004, in which the party argued that the police record should state whether a person is convicted of sexual assault. We believe that there should be parallelity in the requirements for what a police certificate should hold, for applicants in the base school and in the secondary school. We therefore support the proposal from the Department that the police certificate should show whether the pending searcher is targeted, accused or convicted. When it comes to the school environment selection, we refer to the comments and suggestions that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party agree on. We don't really understand that this is going to be a difference between a public school and a freestanding school. A board has its clear tasks on a stand-alone school. There is something quite different about having a school environment selection, which has a completely different possibility of following the daily routine on a school, which has a very different close contact and therefore also a completely different ability to work for a good environment all the time, and which also has the necessary contact to be between the different parties in a school to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1129	There is a lot of consensus in this matter, but I want to comment on two issues in particular. It is said that the special educational approach taken by the Department would be a major impairment of special education. I think that special education, as it is with us today, has three main challenges: Too many are in it. There is too much bureaucracy associated with it, and it leads to too much stigmatisation of the students. What I think is scary is that the parties that are opposed to changing the law are also represented by the Workers' Party, which, when they had the Council of State, at Trond Giske, thought that, for example. all teaching of minority language pupils should be special education. This led to schools such as The old town school, with 80 pst. Minority language, would be 80 pst. the teaching is subject to a single decision. This presents some exciting bureaucratic challenges, including: 160 new positions in Oslo's schoolwork. That's why we're asked for an investigation with slightly unclear objectives, when we see the Workers' Party on the one hand, who wants a massive use of the term'special education' and, on the other hand, the Progress Party asking for the same investigation. That's why I want to say that since this investigation is passed, it will be very important from a left-hand point of view to look at how to get the bureaucracy down, how to get the stigmatisation of students away, and how to get professionals away from processing paper to rather being counselors and counselors for teachers who want to do good teaching for the students. There must be the three objectives of such an investigation. So a little comment on the free choice of school, which was supposed to be the big attack on the local government. Maybe that's not what's been the big challenge. I have to say that when I was in the county school board in the Nord-Trøndelag and was dismayed, against all the other parties, in introducing the free school elections there, we sat down with cruel stories from individual students who wanted to change school after being bullied and after being poorly treated. But it wasn't about you being allowed to move to grandma to go to high school, because you're going to go to that school where you geographically belong, no matter what kind of everyday it brings you! Everyone else voted against. I'm glad you're now beginning to discuss some of these abuses. It's quite interesting that in Oslo you see that what was once just fiffs schools -- the schools that lay where the expensive apartments were -- now actually have a much greater diversity among the students than they had before. It's interesting to see that in Oslo you get a much larger mix of students in schools based on the current recording system. It's interesting to see how schools get good at creating their image, their professional profiles and their different compositions of academic, cultural and environmental activities at school, to attract students. What we've seen in Oslo school has been very positive. Several have met their first request. We've seen that the schools have evolved and improved, and the fighting around high school has gone down dramatically. Unpopular schools, such as: Ullern high school, really got on the roof, and is now among those with the highest number of applicants in their area. The comments made are actually a little daunting as to the level of knowledge as to what the voluntary choice of school has resulted in in a city like Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1144	This proposition is essentially, as has been said, a follow-up to St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, and thus preparation for the implementation of the Knowledge Promise. In addition, we have submitted two proposals as a result of previous request decisions on school environment committees and police certification in higher education. The proposals in the proposal have been largely accepted, and that means that I am largely also satisfied with the Committee's position. This applies in particular to: the proposal to extend the right to secondary education and also our proposal for freer choice of school, although I think that someone might exaggerate the effects here. The proposal put forward here will have very little impact on the counties, but potentially very important for individual lives. Then there's one exception for this in the setting. There is no majority of the proposed changes to the rules of procedure for special education. Of course, I feel that is a pity. I think this would have served students, parents and schools, and I think it's a little surprising, in the light of the public debate we've had on adapted training and special education after the quality committee's setting. I have to make it clear: it has not been the Government's intention, and we do not believe that we have made any proposal to weaken the right to special education. We have made proposals to amend the rules of procedure in order to take account of the flexibility it could provide in meeting each student and each individual case, all of which are different. But here, of course, I take note of the majority view of the Storting. In addition to this, the majority shall propose the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to provide a thorough review of the place of special education in Norwegian school, including an assessment of resource use and results, as well as the organisation and activities of the State support system.’ For this, I have some comments that I would like to make from the Stortings pulpit. First to the last part of this proposal, which concerns a review of the organisation and activities of the special educational support system. I allow myself to draw attention to the request decision No. 152 for 2004-2005, where the Government has already been asked to carry out an overall review of the State budget support system for 2006. I allow myself to assume that there is enough one follow-up and one review, although after this day there will probably be two decisions. With regard to the first part of the proposal I have now referred to, namely the wish to review the place of special education in Norwegian school, I have the following comment: We believe that such a reassessment has been carried out in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004. In addition to the evaluations of the Quality Committee, the Institute for Special Education at the University of Oslo was asked to carry out a literature study of research highlighting the impact of special education. This study is mentioned in the Communication. The study includes literature on special education for students with reading and writing difficulties, math skills, social and emotional difficulties, developmental impairment, autism, hearing impairment and visual impairment. The study shows that there is a lot of research that demonstrates the positive effects of special education in different areas. At the same time, the study shows that it is possible to go further in addressing the need for individual adaptation through better adaptation of regular training. The study also addresses the types of special education that do not work and also shows that no single approach will be effective for all pupils in a category of pupils with special educational needs. Against this background, the Stortinget agreed to implement a strategy to improve the adapted training referred to in Chapter 8 of St.meld. No 30, Culture for learning. This strategy includes research and methodological development, development of competences, action to address behavioural problems, measures to strengthen the learning environment, strengthening the role of the PP service, developing the State special educational support system, strengthening supervision, universal learning resources, teacher training measures, etc. I allow myself to assume that the majority does not believe that the work on this strategy, which is now being implemented, will be interrupted, but that it will continue. As far as the review is concerned, I have to understand that the majority believes that more information is needed. I allow myself to suggest and show that there is a research follow-up evaluation of the entire Culture for Learning, or the Knowledge Lift, including this field, of course, which is very important. I think it might be appropriate for this follow-up evaluation to be the review you want more, because it will be able to provide renewed and additional information, among other things. on the effects and consequences of that strategy and the measures the Stortinget has decided that we should implement, and which I have now very briefly outlined. If I do not hear very strong protests, I allow myself to interpret and understand the decision that is likely to be taken by the majority later, as I have now explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1171	It'll probably show up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1176	First of all, the Council of State just said about special education. Here I would like to refer to what Sortevik said instead. I thought that was very comprehensive for the rounds we had in the committee. The majority of the Grand Duchy is asking for a comprehensive review of special education. Therefore, it is also a little up to the Council of State if she feels that she has sufficient evidence to provide the Storting in the next state budget, which I believe will be a suitable place to provide such an evaluation. What we want is to have the opportunity to go into special education and make thorough assessments of the development in this field. The reason for this is that we have seen that it has been cut off in special education in many municipalities as a result of poor local economy. In the future, we want to be absolutely sure that our children receive adapted special education when they need it. There was no question, but I want to get a little comment anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1187	It is possible that I have expressed myself unclearly, but there is a request decision concerning the state special education support system, that we should come back to it in the context of the 2006 budget. We follow that up, and I assume that we have also followed up the last part of the proposal that is on the table today, as in particular. read: ‘and the organisation and activities of the State support system.’ That’s the one thing I tried to say, and I think we have evidence to do in the 2006 budget. In the case of special education as such, I indicated that if we are to receive new information that gives something in addition to that available before and in St.meld. No 30, I think it would be wise to await the research-based follow-up evaluation of the reform and the actions we are now taking in this area as well. That I think will provide new information that could provide the basis for a new review. So I have to say that the fact that special education might be reduced, doesn't have to have anything to do with economics, but that what the Storting wants is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1194	This is going to work the reverse way in relation to what we're being challenged on. The Council of State asks questions and asks for a reply in a reply. It actually tends to go the other way. But I'll give you a card back game. My advice is at least that we get a thorough treatment of results, resource use and organisation, as it says in the setting. My advice is that we get it as a subject for the trade committee. I have to say I'm quite allergic, unlike the representative of the Workers' Party, to getting important professional issues like column issues in a budget. I think that's a bad treatment. My recommendation is that we get it as our own case. So to what I'm putting on a line, and that's the police record. I want to point out what the Council of State said in March 2004, when she rejected what is now recommended: ‘Youth at secondary school is believed to have greater opportunities to protect itself from abuse, even though a student is often in a certain dependency relationship with an adult. Nevertheless, due to the school obligation and the age of the students, the arguments for a safe and secure environment are stronger for the compulsory school.’ So here, the Council of State has changed its mind. I would like it confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1206	I mean, in my opinion, not to turn to written and unwritten rules in relation to line change, but I think it's wise to make proposals that have the prospect of having a majority, and that may seem a little vague – it's probably a case earlier today that might emphasize it – to try to interpret it the best way from this speaker, and possibly get reactions to it. For the purpose of this request decision, the support system is to be reviewed in the State budget for 2006. Of course, there's something about the department. My point is that then the last part of the proposal that is on the table today works, so to speak, on the outside. I have expressed what I think is a wise way to follow up the first part of that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1213	I need to stress that we want as few students as possible to need special education. It has to be very clear. As far as possible, training shall be organised within the general rule of custom-made training. There's no doubt about what we think about it. So I'm going to try to answer the questions that the Council of State raises. I believe that in the case of the support system, i.e. the centre of competence in particular, it is being queried in the state budget for 2006, and that's okay enough for us. It seems that the job is done, and that we have a debate about the centre of competence, that part of the support system, in 2006, so we are satisfied with that. With regard to the rest of the special education, to which the Council of State asks for comments, I think it is important that follow-up research is started, so that we get the most knowledge about special education. So I'm happy that the work is done. If knowledge is made available to the Council of State, she should inform Stortingen about this. [[The President clubs.]] Then I have a question – President. I don't get the chance to come along with that, but at least I've answered the questions from the Council of State. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1224	It might be bold to thank you for the answer, so I'm not going to do it, but I can say that I fully agree. I am also convinced that the Stortinget is in agreement with the aim of reducing special education and getting the most custom-made training. That is in the strategy we are about to implement. It's very important. We have never proposed removing the right to special education, but we should not have unnecessary special education, and so I understand the rest of the Stortinget, even if we disagree with these rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1229	I'm changing the theme. I would like to ask a question about freer school choices and freer school offerings in the continuing school. What makes the ministry propose a secret so that the ministry can go in and override a system that works well today? As stated by the Storting before, there are geographical differences, different school structures, the need for school pillows in the different counties, which are actually important for those who know the conditions locally to discuss. Is this an expression that there is a difference in view of popular government in the Ministry of Education and in the Ministry of Local Government, or is it simply a common attempt to weaken the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1237	The proposal has not been promoted to weaken the county council, but to strengthen and improve the training of students. What you can imagine here is a student who lives all the way up to a county line, where there is an offer quite close to where the student lives, but in another county, and where the same offer is in the student's county, but it's just that it's a lot further away. Then it's not easy that it can be arranged for the student's best, but I think it should. The student should then have the right to choose the offer that is directly above the county border. So what we're proposing here is a law that might later facilitate the county's obligation to reimburse expenses even if the training takes place in another state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1242	I will not give an answer, but I can make a request that it is possible to have contact outside the storage room if any details of the proposals and intentions with them are not clarified. I have a question about special education. After all, we agree that we want special education to be less needed because we are strengthening adapted training. However, the practical input we have received shows that it is a good part that has simply been rejected for special education and received an offer that they do not perceive as, and that is not documented, just as well, or that cannot measure up to the special education they have, for example. received the previous year. That's the everyday we get input from. Of course, it has a background in economics. I would like to ask the Council of State a question: are you trying to figure out the extent of this? Could it be a weakness with the funding model that we have, that this goes off the common pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1249	We have good documentation to say that there is a lot of special education that works very well. We also have good evidence to say that there is special education that is not working well, and that the scope of special education is probably too large for some places, because the differences are so large that there can be no reasonable explanation for it. I have no evidence to say that any reduction in special education is due to economic circumstances. This may also be because you have been better trained in a better way. Whether the financing model is perfect or can be improved, I don't really want to say anything about it. But this follow-up research that we are about to carry out, of all the measures we are taking to improve the adaptability of training, and to reduce special education to what it should be, and to get it as best as possible, will be able to provide us with more knowledge in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1254	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1259	In three minutes it has to be in the form of cords. There are comments from the Progressive Party on curricula. We want clear targets, as the Storting has asked. We want clear content, as the Storting has asked. We want from the Progress Party to have defined content. We don't want black holes that give the individual teacher the opportunity to define 25 pst. of the professional content of the curricula. There is a clear message from the Progress Party, given in note on this issue, and it will also be given in other ways in relation to the fact that we have an important debate going on on the content of the new curricula. The party wishing to pursue higher education without age limit. There we support SV – or vice versa. The point of the Progress Party is that we have this as a policy. We have it in our program. We are pleased to move forward towards an unrestricted right to pursue even higher education. So that's what we're talking about together. It does a whole committee after all, and it's absolutely excellent. We want a free school choice, and we want a free school choice on a national basis. There we are not satisfied with an advance that can at best be characterised as a tiny movement, a promise of a possible small movement, and with some leadership that will give politicians and bureaucrats sight on the road. We believe that the right to a free, national school choice should be a right that students and parents have, and that local politicians and bureaucrats and municipal politicians and bureaucrats should not interfere. So we'll do a lot longer, but we'll take with us the little bit of movement. So it is that there is something that has not even been promoted by the Government, which lies in the matter. The original proposal to introduce a specific right of entry into higher education for young people with a migrant background is not even promoted by the Government itself. It's the Progress Party very pleased with. The proposal encountered considerable resistance in the consultation round. After the Progress Party's view, the proposal is full of wrong signals and has unacceptable content, and now it is well placed in a drawer. That's where it belongs. Then, in a previous post, a comment was made on why the independent schools should not have a school environment committee. There might be several reasons for that. But one of the main reasons, at least as we see it, is that parents have a completely different influence and ability to manage in independent schools than what we find in public schools. There is an important reason to say that it is important for the public school to go further in the direction of parental participation, parental influence, which the independent schools already provide. That's where we're going to use the school environment selection solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1274	I want to follow up on some of the issues raised by the representative Meltveit Kleppa, and the answer she received from the Council of State, regarding the amendment of the law we are making by giving the Ministry greater authority to establish new rules on admission. The reason given by the Council of State for the proposal is that students can live at a county border and that the road to school across the county border could be shorter than the road to school within the county border. If that's just the rationale -- that's how I perceived the Council of States -- to make that amendment, I don't have any problems with it. But it might be interesting to know if the Council of State has other objectives, such as allowing greater opportunity to influence the rules of entry of the county councils, in order to increase cross-border mobility. If that's the goal, we fundamentally disagree with that. But if the small example given by the Council of State was the goal of the extended mandate, I am so relieved. It would have been exciting to hear what the council has to say to it. Then I would like to say a little about the police record, which I did not have time to touch in my main post. We are promoting an alternative proposal that the police certificate should only tell us if a person has been convicted. Now it is stated that a police record should include whether you are sighted, accused or convicted. We think this is going too far. This goes on privacy. In my opinion, it is strange that the majority is not more critical of this, because people who are targeted are not convicted, nor should they be issued with a police record, which is to be used in an application. The roadways of the party of progress are unanswerable. The representative of Sortevik stated that the Progress Party is in favour of not being an age ceiling, that it should be a general right to secondary school. That actually means that there is a majority, and we could have made a change in the law already now because the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have expressed the same thing. It was not expressed, as I understood it, when we dealt with the matter in the committee. So it was so much new to me that the Progress Party wants to remove the age bar, as it exists. But it could be a clear signal to the Council of State that there is a majority here in the Chamber who want to remove the roof. From that point on, the Council of State should come back to us quite soon with this part of a change in law. We do not agree with the rest of the Progress Party. But in terms of age, there's a majority to remove it. And my appeal to the Council of State is that she uses the first and best opportunity to come back and change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1283	So the debate is on case No. End of 2 [[Footing, see page 769]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1299	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, 5 minutes for each independent representative and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition of the individual speeches, and that those who draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1306	It is not often Norway receives packaging from the UN Committee on Human Rights. It is therefore important to address it properly, although too many in Norway may be perceived as a bit unfair in relation to the enforcement of religion and schooling by many other countries. I am very pleased with the broad consensus of the Committee on Government's proposals. This is a subject that is often debated in society, and it is clear that this is a matter where it is very important to find a balance sheet, and we are very close by finding the balance sheet point that is needed. The trade is a challenge in today's society, but it's also a very important subject in today's society. It's important because we need knowledge about each other on this important issue of life. It's an important subject because the tolerance is challenged in many arenas. Tolerance is very important to be able to build a society together, it is important because knowledge of religion and outlook is part of us as people, and important for a school that should educate children who should not only have knowledge in their heads, but also education in their heads and hearts. I am very pleased with the effort that the Government has also put into the revised national budget with regard to teachers, in order to increase their skills and give them the opportunity to do a good job in relation to this subject. It is also a goal to have a trade with the lowest possible exemption. I think it is important to state that exemptions from knowledge cannot be accepted. Knowledge of each other and knowledge of important Bible texts are important in order to understand the society in which we live. It is clear that knowing what the merciful Samaritan is is is actually quite important in order to understand both Norwegian jokes and stories and political rhetoric. The majority of the Committee believes that it is important that we have now managed to strike a balance between religious objectivity and value neutrality. There is a great difference between religious objectivity and value neutrality. I think it's important to have an opinion that value neutrality is something we can't manage to achieve. We all have our base in some values, and we're all starting from some values when we take both the political position and the position of other things around us. That's why this subject is a big challenge for teachers, and it's perhaps one of the most exciting subjects to teach. Here it is that Oslo has always had a different view of the composition of the CRL subject than what you have had nationally. The same political majority you have had in Oslo, the view here has always been different from that in this Chamber. And then finally, I'll just be allowed to comment on some of the suggestions from SV. What is done with the subject is that we, among other things, disconnect it from the purpose paragraph, which is one of the things that we have been told about from the UN. Suggesting a point-of-purpose debate on this matter is being sought, I think. Promoting proposals to change both the name, curriculum and purpose paragraph seems to be a bit of an urgent work now at the end. But I understand that, because SV wants to join the government with the Workers' Party, which says that these things should not be passed on to them in such a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1325	I thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the case and can very much agree with the conclusions she has presented. The Labour Party, together with the Central Party and the Government Parties, constitutes the majority of the Committee, and I would like to justify our position. The Labour Party believes that the changes that are being adopted today will meet the demands of the UN Human Rights Committee on the CRL subject. The preaching emphasis is lost, exemptions are easier to obtain, and, in particular, school owners are ordered to inform about the right of exemption. In total, these three interventions will open up the regulatory framework for the CRL subject to ease of handling and practice. SV has a different and several further approach to this matter. While the other parties have dealt with Ot.prp. No 91 and its conclusions, SV has wanted to take the debate on the school's Christian purpose paragraph, to take the debate on the change of name in the CRL subject, and to advance the content of the curriculum for the CRL subject. As I see it, SV tries in this case to cut some turns. In particular, the debate on the purpose paragraph deserves, in my view, a much wider treatment than a debate on exemptions from the CRL subject. The Labour Party likes to take a debate on the purpose paragraph, and I have noticed that both Bishop Kheme and the Church Council leader, Erling Pettersen, were out in the media yesterday and said that the Christian purpose paragraph could be problematic and conflict-making for Norwegian school. I also noticed that the Christian People's Party leader totally refuses to change the school's Christian purpose paragraph. So I welcome the debate, but put in the broad perspective it deserves. I'll show you in this context to Innst. S. No 240 for 2000-2001 on the evaluation of the CRL subject, where SV in its specific note states: ‘This member agrees that the purpose paragraph must be seen independently of the CRL subject.’ SV also promoted a proposal in which they asked the Government to submit proposals for a new purpose paragraph during the spring of 2002. Let me say it this way: I support SV's comment in Innst. S. No 240 that the purpose paragraph must be seen independently of the CRL subject. The purpose paragraph applies to all subjects and all training at school. When the purpose paragraph is to be considered, it must be in a broader context than in relation to one subject alone. Finally, I would like to comment on this with the exemption and the right to exemption in the KRL field. In my view, the Ministry's exemption guidelines have been both liberal and tolerant for many years. School directors in the individual counties have been able to meet parents who, for various reasons, want exemptions from their children. My experience is that it is the municipalities and the individual head of school or the individual school board who have been detained, who have not wanted to grant exemptions, and who have, unfortunately, been conflict-making, especially in relation to religious minority groups. As regards the name of the subject, the Workers' Party has a different approach angle than SV. We cannot support SV's proposals as formulated, and with the assumptions that lie there. We will come back to that debate – I do not doubt it. In the further work, the CRL subject needs to be developed into a common subject for which all students can participate and gather and which gives them knowledge and respect and tolerance for different religions and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1352	Ot. pp. No 91, which we are now discussing, is a direct follow-up to the opinion of the UN Human Rights Committee on 3 November last year. Although we know that the opinion is not formally binding on Norway, it is important that we address the comments in a good and balanced way. It has been done in the Government's proposal, and it is gratifying that it has succeeded in reaching full agreement on the conclusions drawn and on the changes proposed. This is not least due to good work done by the rapporteur. The KRL subject is a subject that arouses emotions and commitment. That's good, because the subject will involve us. It is a subject that affects more than factual knowledge. It concerns our cultural heritage and our values – and that is our feelings. The changes that are now being adopted are necessary to adapt the subject to the realities that exist. Our society has become multi-religious and multi-cultural. Even within our own culture, the diversity of values and interests is great. The proposed measures are therefore necessary in order for the CRL subject to continue to be a single subject with the lowest possible exemption. Of course, the right-hand side supports the proposals made in the proposal, which are also agreed within the Committee. However, it is necessary to underline a few moments. On the right, the CRL subject will be a collective subject. In order to succeed in this, it is necessary to ensure that education is not perceived as a public service. This is underlined by the fact that the requirement to teach in the CRL subject is to be based on the purpose paragraph of the law, which is now repealed. I think it's worth noting, and it's interesting, that none of the hearing bodies have commented on just this proposal. By removing this link, it will become more clear that the CRL subject, like the other subjects in the school, must also be a subject of knowledge and understanding. This point is important in order to meet the opinions of the United Nations Commission. Of course, it must be emphasised that the school's purpose paragraph, Section 1-2 of the Training Act, is still the basis for all activities in and at school. But, like the Workers' Party, I do not rule out that in the relatively near future there may be a need to address the school's purpose paragraph. I would like to refer here to the hearing opinion of the Faculty of Education in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, which came a little over a year ago, in which they just issued an opinion on changing the purpose paragraph. However, I agree with the Government that such an assessment and such a debate – and not least a possible new conclusion – must come in a different and much broader context than one that concerns the CRL subject alone. To underline that teaching is not preaching, it is also important to change the concept of "evangelical-Lutherical faith" to "evangelical-Lutherical Christianity understanding". So a little bit about the exemptions. These are important. Even if the subject is not to be a service provider, it is necessary to have provisions to simplify the exemption procedures and to be made in accordance with its own regulations and not simply to link them to the KRL subject. School life is such that exemptions may also be needed for activities in other disciplines. This may apply to both the physical and music subjects. Simplified procedures for obtaining exemptions are necessary in order to meet the opinions of the United Nations Commission. In my opinion, the ministry has come up with good solutions that will ensure good procedures. The school's information and guidance obligations are reinforced. The school's responsibility for implementing exemptions when applied for is strongly underlined. The notification procedures are simplified by not requiring specific reasons other than to point out that the activities in question do not conform to their own life-view. It's the school that has to justify refusal. I expect that will happen in very few cases. In my and the Right's opinion, the rights of parents and students are guaranteed in a good way. At the same time, it must be stressed that no one should be able to turn away from the dissemination of knowledge and knowledge, nor from the viewpoint of other religions and life. Knowledge and knowledge of other cultures, other religions and the values of others contribute greatly to creating understanding and tolerance. In my opinion, through the examination of this matter, we will meet the UN Human Rights Committee in a good, sensible and balanced manner. The rights of parents and students are guaranteed, while the CRL subject remains a school subject, with the lowest possible exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1378	I want to start by saying that we are doing it in an unprofitable way in our opinion. We could have black without making a change to the law. However, the Party considers that it is important that the CRL subject should be an ordinary and pooling knowledge subject, not a religion and ministry subject. The changes proposed will make it clearer, and we will support the Government's proposal, which will ultimately improve and strengthen the CRL subject. Let me also stress that the Progress Party believes that the changes that are now being made to improve and strengthen the subject will lead to the fact that there will no longer be a special need or desire to apply for an exemption from the teaching of the subject. The Progress Party believes it is important to have a CRL subject based on a clear and strong value platform for all students attending Norwegian school. Just at a time of increasing cultural diversity, such a subject is more important than ever. Children need a common platform for understanding fundamental values and historical and cultural anchors associated with the country in which they live and of which most are also citizens. There is no doubt that it is Christianity that stands closest to Norwegian society – cultural, valuable and historical. For children who attend Norwegian school in Norway, there should be no doubt about it either. Christian cultural heritage and Christian ethics should be clearly identified as the fundamental values of Norwegian society. This value base for Norwegian society must therefore also be clearly highlighted, presented and underlined for all children in Norwegian primary school. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we believe that all Norwegian citizens and all those who have otherwise received permanent residence in Norway will find it natural, important and correct that their children receive information about, training and understanding of and understanding of the very value base of Norwegian society through their schooling in Norway. The Progress Party also assumes that a value platform that is so justified, designed and used will bring together the vast majority of students, with wide parental and senior outreach. At the same time, the Progress Party will stress that the subject should not be an arena to convert Norwegian school students into Christian faith. Trophy training is a task for which the Advance Party believes that parents should have the primary responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of parents and not the responsibility of the school. Although the CRL subject must be religiously neutral and objective, it must not be such that the subject must be objective and neutral in value. For the Progress Party, it is particularly important that a subject on which the CRL profession has as its basis the values on which the Norwegian society is based, both politically, culturally and historically, and that this is the basis for the development of new curricula and through teaching in the subject. The progress party has noted with satisfaction that the school will continue to be based on the Christian purpose paragraph, as established in the case. In our view, this is an important emphasis on the central position of Christian cultural heritage and ethics in Norwegian society. The progress party is negative to the SV's three proposals in the case. As regards proposal No: 2, it's noticing that there's actually a point that this is the only curriculum SV will have back. From the Progress Party we have actually been concerned about getting feedback on all the new curricula. We have not received any support from SV for that. If we're going to have curriculums back, we should get everything back in an enumeration and summing form, but not this one alone. Nor do we see the need to name the subject – it is well-baptized, an inclusive name is given, and a good name is well incorporated. The party of progress also rejects the SV’s proposal to introduce a new school purpose paragraph. In plain text: The Socialist Left Party will remove Norwegian school's anchoring in Christian cultural heritage and Christian ethics. The Socialist Left is the foundation of Norway's becoming a multicultural and pluralist society. The progress party believes this is revealing. It reveals a political attitude that in a way is necrust and naively howling to anything that tastes foreign culturally, an attitude that often and clearly places its own national cultural heritage in other sequences and as less important. I repeat that, in the view of the Advancement Party, there is no doubt that it is Christianity that stands closest to Norwegian society – cultural, valuable and historical. That is why this is also a matter of national values. In this case of values, multicultural values are obviously most important for SV. I'm glad the red parties disagree. I hope that disagreement will last a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1401	Let me first underline that we support the Government's proposal to amend sections 2-3 and 2-4, so that there is no doubt about it. I would like to commend the Council of State for having taken seriously what we have received from the UN Human Rights Committee, and tried to go in and see what changes she sees need to make. This is a matter that is full of symbolism. We can change the curriculum by distributing the different religions slightly different from what we do today, by 55 pst. with Christianity, and reduce it to 40 pst. – or what we had to do. We can change other formulations in the plans, we can change the right to exemption, as we do today, and we can change § 2-4, which is reference to the purpose paragraph, to that part of the purpose paragraph where it says that the school should help parents to give their children Christian custody. All of this we can do. But I feel absolutely sure that we would still have problems with this subject. This subject is too important for it to be destroyed, and for us not to be able to create a common value subject, a common subject where the students get knowledge of the different religions. It's sad that you don't dare go in and start from what's the problem. And the problem is the purpose paragraph. We cannot have a purpose paragraph in our society where we explicitly say that school should help parents to give their children a Christian sentence, when we know that a large part of their parents are not Christians and do not want the school to help them give it up. This has a lot of inserts. Many have finally come to the same position as SV, that this part needs to be changed. We're going to have a purpose paragraph where we define our values. To the extent that we need a purpose paragraph, we're going to have it, of course. When the representative Sortevik talks about multicultural values, I don't know what he's talking about, we're going to have a paragraph that clarifies the value of the school – if we're still going to have a purpose paragraph. The head of the church council and the bishop of Nidaros have been out and said the same thing as we have. So it wasn't Bishop Kheer – I was about to say – I wish it was! Former bishop of Oslo has said that he agrees with SV that there is a need to change the purpose paragraph. We have not proposed a new purpose paragraph. What we've asked for is support from the majority to ask the government to investigate and come back to the Storting with a new purpose paragraph, so that we can get the debate that we're going to have. That's all we're asking for. It's strange, then, when the Workers' Party says that maybe that debate comes, and when the Right says that they might agree with us, and that there might be a need to do something, that they don't support us and say that it's clear that we're going to start the process, and start the Council of State with this work. In addition, we have referred to a proposal that is already there today, namely a proposal presented by the school group under the Value Commission, which large groups – Christians, Muslims, Jews and others – have said is a good starting point for a new purpose paragraph. Different groupings, including humanetics, have been involved. So that's the way to do it. If we had made that clear, we would have done something about the subject – the CRL subject – which, as I said, is too important for it to crumble away for us by what is now happening. That is what we are asking for, and that is what you have said you agree with us, but will not vote in favour. It's a strange, strange form of argument. It's not the curriculum in the KRL subject we're discussing today. We haven't, we haven't seen it, we haven't read it. It's available, but it's not the one we're dealing with today, it's not the content of the curriculum, as someone's suggested. We have said that we want the curriculum back to the Stortinget – this special curriculum – precisely because it was the Stortinget who dealt with it the first time, and it was the Stortinget that evaluated it five years ago. That should also be the time for the Storting to deal with the new curriculum, so that we get the chance to go into and discuss the content of the plan, the formulations of the plan, the distribution of teaching material, etc., etc. But it doesn't support you, but you're attacking us because we're going into this. We ask to get it back, we ask for a treatment of it. You had the opportunity to support us in that, so we had a good debate on the content of the curriculum. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1431	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1439	Christian People's Party supports today's setting. From the last post, it is quite clear that the teaching of Christianity, religion and life views is controversial and likely to be so in the future. Both content and methods are subject to debate. The Christian People's Party believes that the KRL should be a collective trade, and I am pleased that a collective committee is united on it. The Hernes Council of State stressed in the explanatory memorandum for the subject ‘a common cultural identity based primarily on our Christian and humanist cultural heritage in a society of increasing pluralism’. In the Christian People's Party, we believe the KRL subject as we have today is a meeting place for students with different backgrounds. The profession shall contribute to the common knowledge base and reference frameworks, promote new insights and provide recognition from its own background. The trade shall provide students with knowledge and understanding of different religions and religions, it shall continue traditions and ensure religious identity. This can lead to insight, tolerance and dialogue. In this way, CRL education can help students to place themselves in a landscape with different interpretations of life. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to stress that the subject is a knowledge subject. Tolerance is not about everyone becoming the same, but respecting diversity. Tolerance is about knowledge. Students become secure in their identity and have a greater understanding of other religious communities when they know others' opinions and attitudes. Knowledge makes the students aware that they themselves have an opinion, and that it is not necessarily shared by everyone else. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, church policy has been important with a religious education reform. It shall provide children and young people with training in their own faith. The many applications from congregations we have seen in these days show the great need there is for that very thing. But it happens in the hands of the Church and the religious communities. In the Christian People's Party, we believe today's amendment is an adequate response to the UN. That opinions about the subject are broken is natural. It is therefore important that the subject is open and contributes to respect and dialogue, while stressing the importance of Christianity in Norwegian culture and history. It is natural that this is shown in the distribution of central learning material in the subject, as it should also continue to do. We need to pass on our cultural heritage. At the same time, we must take seriously that we do not have a unified society. These amendments concern both matters. I would like to point out that a central and reasonable response is that the exemption provision is separated into a separate provision. It was precisely the criticism of the exemption and the practice of the exemption that was the basis and the support of the criticism of the UN Committee. The challenge is to ensure parental and minority protection in accordance with the obligations of international law and that the exemption rules are easy to deal with. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a need for empowerment for the teachers in this subject, also in relation to the school management. We are now getting new curricula for this subject, and they are supposed to be used already in the autumn. I'm glad the government has proposed giving 10 million. to develop skills in the CRL sector in primary school in order to enhance the competence of teachers. It is both positive and necessary. The KRL is a relatively new subject, and the development of teacher skills is important in order to enhance students’ training in the CRL in a good way. That the Government will now focus on empowerment measures, especially for the CRL, is therefore both positive and necessary. In the CRL field, it is essential that school-home cooperation works well and that information is clear as to what the subject involves and how the training is planned. This must not lead to theoreticalization of the subject. It is necessary to maintain committed pedagogical practices. This is why good teaching skills are important, and school leaders have a good understanding of the subject, so that dialogue with their homes is ensured. In this context, competence enhancement measures in the disciplines are appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1458	The central part of my KRL subject has an important function in our multicultural society. The façade shall contribute to providing students with security on their own value basis. The trade must also contribute to knowledge of different religions and views of life, in order to create understanding and respect for others. The central party thinks it's right to bring the UN Committee's comments to the meeting. We share the department's view that the exemption arrangements must take care of their parents' courts. We support the proposals for clarifications and amendments to the rules on exemptions in the law. Furthermore, the Center Party believes that it is right to change the curriculum to make a clearer distinction between those parts of the CRL that can be perceived as religious practice and those that can't. The UN Human Rights Committee has objected to the link between the CRL subject and the Training Act's purpose paragraph, the exemption regime and claimed religious practice in the subject. The central party of my ministry's proposal meets the objections of the United Nations Committee, firstly by the fact that the subject no longer refers to the purpose paragraph, and secondly by the fact that the concept of "true" has changed to "Christianity understanding". Furthermore, the exemption rules are specified and separated into a separate rule. KRL is currently a compulsory subject in teacher training. That's what the Center Party thinks is important. We also support the Government's proposal in the revised budget on funds for continuing training in the CRL field. It is important that teachers are re-updated in the subject, so that training takes place according to the new curriculum’s intention and content. We record that SV will change the school's purpose paragraph. The centre part will have a anchored school. The KRL subject is supposed to be a collective subject. It is a crossroads that today's purpose paragraph seems to make the school and the KRL subject more a camper than a collection of values. We have noted with interest that several church leaders have recently stated that the purpose paragraph may have a different wording than today. We are open to a debate on changing certain wordings. But let me draw the line below: the center party thinks that such a question requires careful discussion. It takes time to discuss what the purpose paragraph means for the school, how the purpose paragraph works today, and what alternative formulations may be relevant. The centre party wants a school that still takes care of the Christian cultural heritage and the humanistic foundation that has broad support and long tradition in our school and our people. For us, a value anchoring of the school is fixed. In this case, any rewording must take into account fundamental values of Christian and humanistic tradition and give understanding to different cultures and religions, with respect for others as a matter of principle. The centre party has not taken initiative in changing the purpose paragraph, but, as I have said, we can be open to such a discussion. In this case, it must be an extension of the initiatives taken by the Church itself. When the director of the Council of Churches, when several bishops now ask questions about today's formulations, we are asked a little bit to let our eyes be closed and ear all over again for this. But let me end by saying that a value anchoring of the Norwegian school should, in our view, stand firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1478	The legislative proposal under consideration today is part of the follow-up to the views of the UN Committee on Human Rights expressed in an opinion of 3 November 2004. The Committee therefore concludes that the framework around the CRL subject and the current exemption regime are in breach of Article 18(1). 4 of the United Nations Convention on the Freedom of Parents to Provide the Religious and Moral Mission of Their Children. The Government has taken note of the opinion of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights and proposes amendments to the provisions on the CRL subject, the exemption provision and the curriculum in order to respond to the Committee’s views. I am very pleased that this is now getting a very broad uproar in Stortinget. The government has looked for a solution that meets the opinion of the United Nations Committee on the one hand, while at the same time being as comprehensive as possible in school and in society on the other. The CRL course shall be an ordinary school subject which normally gathers all pupils. It shall be open, it shall contribute to understanding, respect and dialogue across the limits of faith and life, and it shall promote understanding and tolerance on religious and moral issues. In my view, this is not least important in our time with many conflicts of underlying and/or alleged religious reasons. But if we are to succeed in this, it is imperative that the students participate as far as possible in a comprehensive education. Some of the main proposals that have been put forward include: that the provision in the Training Act that the person teaching in the CRL subject is to be based on the purpose paragraph of the Act is repealed, i.e. removing the direct link between this subject and the purpose paragraph. The current exemption provisions are distinguished in a separate provision to clarify that access to the exemption is not only linked to the CRL subject but to the whole of primary education. It is statutory for the school owner to provide annually information on the exemption rules for students and parents of students under 15 years of age. And then it is clarified that the school has an obligation to adapt education within the curriculum when exemptions from activities and different working methods have been notified. That is, the students should have the same knowledge as the other students, but in a different way. As before, the curriculum for the CRL subject will be such that it will not be opened for preaching or teaching that is public service. However, the curriculum shall be amended in such a way as to make a clearer distinction between those elements which may nevertheless be regarded as religious practice and those which cannot. In addition to this, the Government has also taken the initiative to provide some of the skills to be developed in Norwegian school in the coming years, just in the case of the CRL subject, in view of the fact that there is a curriculum introduced earlier than the other curricula. As it looks in this hall now, this may seem like a small matter. It probably doesn't take that long, but it's been a very demanding thing. We know that there are different opinions and strong feelings associated with this subject, and there is good reason to have great respect for the different opinions that prevail. The problem is that they don't work together. In my work on this matter, the government has been very busy in its work on this matter, trying to avoid various forms of fragmentation, that religious education can still be conducted in Norwegian school, and that it is as diverse as possible. With a high degree of fragmentation, either in public schools or simply because there is no particular common religious education in public schools, the whole of religious education is likely to lose legitimacy. I hope we've come up with a solution that is to live with as much as possible. That's the way it works, with the conjunction that the proposition here is going to have. Someone has said to me during the work that they can't understand that we had to do something about this, because the CRL profession seems good for the large majority. That's right, but a human rights issue is about respect for the minority. What I hope we achieve now is to respect the minority in a clearer and better way, while the profession can still work well for the large, large majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1497	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1500	I realize that it's almost a crime to ask for a 3 minute post at 3:00 p.m. 14.30 on a Saturday afternoon, but it was necessary. The representative Reikvam is mistaken at least two points when he comes to the conclusion that the right agrees with SV regarding the purpose paragraph. First of all, he takes it wrong when he interprets me in my post so that the right will necessarily have a new paragraph with new content. It must be stressed that the Right wants a school with a value anchor. What I opened up in my speech was the debate – and perhaps even that there is a need for a debate. However, in line with SV's comments in today's setting, I have at least not drawn any conclusion. So the representative says that the only SV has asked for is that the government should start work on assessing whether we are going to have a new purpose paragraph. In my opinion, this is not what SV's proposal is and must be interpreted. The SV's proposal is much more concrete. The proposal asks the Government to: «present proposals for a new purpose clause in the Training Act, based on the wording of the School Group under the Value Commission». Furthermore, the proposal states: ‘The proposal must reflect the fact that Norway has become a multicultural and pluralistic society, and must be able to bring together a wide range of communities of faith and life’. So what's suggested is much more concrete than just starting work to assess whether we're going to have a new paragraph. It will therefore be impossible for us to vote in favour of a proposal that has been reached before the work on finding a conclusion has begun. What we have opened up to is that we want to participate in a debate. There may be a need for a debate, and we have seen that the debate will come. Then we won't be passive in it. I think it's important that there is a debate that takes place on the premises of the school, and on the basis of what will make sense in terms of school, and the role that the school should play in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1521	What we're asking for is that one set up a new purpose paragraph. That's what we're asking for! To get the process going, we refer to a draft that is already there, that has been processed, that has been worked through, and that the school group under the Value Commission presented. Is there anyone in this room who will claim that the draft that lies there is not valued? Is there anyone here saying that the draft that came from the Value Commission is not value anchored? Everyone in this room is in favour of a purpose paragraph that has a value anchor. It was supposed to be missing! To the extent that we need a purpose paragraph – I'm not sure we do, but let's say we need it – of course we need a value-linked purpose paragraph. That's not the problem. But we can't have a purpose paragraph that says the school should help Muslims to give their children a Christian sentence. That's what we have today. We have to go in there and do something about it. There is a proposal here from the Value Commission, and a professor group from the Faculty of Education has presented a proposal – all this can be used as a starting point. These are of course anchored in values. It becomes a cross of thought when Meltveit Kleppa says that whether we are going to have a discussion about or change the purpose paragraph, the Church itself must take the initiative. The Church is not the one to take the initiative in this, we are. This is a political question, and it is not the responsibility of the Norwegian Church. It must be obvious that if we're going to change the purpose paragraph, it's not because the Church comes and asks us to do it, but it's because we purely politically say that we have to do that, we want to do that. We want a purpose paragraph that is strongly anchored in value, but that takes into account that Norwegian society has changed. Then I think it's very nice, very good, that representatives from the Norwegian Church, at least some central representatives, are clear and clear that they also agree. That's what we're asking for. And I underline once again that of course it should be anchored in value. So to these amendments. I believe that these proposals also meet the needs of the UN Committee on Human Rights, I believe. However, the crucial question is whether this meets the needs of groups in Norwegian society. If there are still large groups in the Norwegian community who say that this is not good enough, a large minority who believe that here we haven't come far enough, here we haven't made the changes that are necessary, we haven't really come so bad much anymore. That's what worries us. We need peace of mind about this subject, we need to make a good value, a good religion, which is a good basis for conversation and discussion in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1530	I very much agree with the last words that Rolf Reikvam said. It's just strange that whoever wants to calm down on the subject and agree on the subject, now wants to get the curriculum back to the hall for a new debate, wants to get an investigation on purpose paragraphs and a number of other things started, while it's so that all the parties here in the hall actually agree on what is being done. What's being done now is really an opportunity to calm down on the subject. The debate on the purpose paragraph I think will be kept alive. It's happening in my party, we also have a program formulation attached to it, and it would just be missing if the school's purpose at all times were not part of the social debate. But then you have to take other steps and don't believe that the grip to get into the goal is to get the government to start an rape job. I think that in this debate you need quite some time to find the formulations that make you approach a dialogue with respect to saying that the school is actually based on some values, that there are actually some common values we have in our society that we want the school to build on, and then find the formulations that also bring this forward. I believe that Rolf Reikvam is drawing on the investigations that have been carried out now, quite far from how they can be used. I think the parties have a bit to go to get closer to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1537	I promise to spend less time than 3 minutes. The representative Rivam, who is going to change the purpose section, takes the same important reservation in both of his posts, because he adds: if we're going to have a purpose paragraph. The Progress Party believes we should have a purpose paragraph. It shall be a value platform for the Norwegian school. The Progress Party believes that we have a good platform in the Christian purpose paragraph. We want to keep it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1547	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1550	The value platform in Norwegian school is defined in the general part of the curriculum, in all curricula, and whether we need a separate law paragraph, I think that's reason to discuss. But if it is desirable for us to maintain our own point of purpose, we should go into that debate, and that is a debate we should have in many areas. We've pointed out some possibilities there. And so – if I only have 1 minute's speaking time, as the president claims – I would like briefly to say that it is quite incredible that the Left, one of the parties that has a clear and clear formulation in its programme that one should change the school's purpose paragraph, does not vote in favour of the proposal that we should initiate the process. The proposal that we have made is precisely to help the Left in trying to realise some of the formulations that they have adopted at their national meeting. They should have taken advantage of the chance to do so during the four-year period of their batch programme. It's a comprehensive process. If the Left had supported SV in this case, they might have had the opportunity to realize one of their program formulations. It would be nice for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1557	I just want to be told that the left does not feel the need to get help from SV to implement their program formulations. The point is that this is not a question in this case. In fact, this subject, with this decision, is being disconnected from the purpose paragraph. That is what Rolf Rikvam has also agreed to. That is why it is so strange that this question is raised in this case. It is clear that if SV believes that they are going to be in government, they will have this decision in place before that. But the left has so much faith in its participation in the government that we are actually able to initiate the processes we need in the government offices, so that this government will pursue a policy that is closer to the Left's programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see 774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1570	The odelsting should now go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1578	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Central Party proposals No. 5 and 6 by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 8, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President first takes note of the proposals. Two, seven, eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1624	In my explanation of vote during the debate I said that the government parties took note that the majority proposal for the third paragraph of Section 53a, the so-called MP3 provision, can be adopted. The parties to the government have consistently argued that this wording is contrary to the EU directive in this area, which we otherwise adopted in the Grand Duchy today, and we still believe that questions can be raised in this respect. I said it was a great doubt, and I strongly doubt that the government parties would vote in favour of this law. Following my explanation of vote on behalf of the government parties, the representatives of the opposition parties and, in particular, the representative, Gist of this to the effect that the government parties are doing well to ensure that the legal wording adopted in the third paragraph of Section 53a is in line with the EU Directive. We certainly do not believe that it is. As stated in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee of 26 May, this is considered not to be in conformity with the Directive. In order to remove any confusion about the views of the government parties on this issue, the government parties will vote against the title of the law and the law as a whole in the final vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e1773	To the last paragraph of paragraph 12, there is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 12 final paragraph, the last paragraph is replaced by the following: [[...]] First of all, the Committee's position on I, § §2 to 12, with the exception of the last point of the last paragraph of Section 12. Then, alternatively, between the Committee's position on the last paragraph, paragraph 12, and the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2379	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 53a, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The provisions of this paragraph shall not preclude research into cryptology. Nor shall the provision of the first subparagraph prevent the private user from acquiring the work on relevant playback equipment. Nor shall this provision prevent the private user from transferring audio recordings from CD to other format players within the rules on copying for private use in Section 12. In the case of technical devices for the protection of a computer application, the provisions of § 53c apply instead.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2396	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2426	We shall then vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 53a receives the following addition – new seventh paragraph:The provisions of the first subparagraph shall not preclude the exercise of the rights described in Section 39i. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2461	Here the President draws attention to the need to make a correction in the draft resolution. The correction consists of the division of the third paragraph into two paragraphs. The second sentence of the third paragraph shall be an independent fourth paragraph and the fourth subparagraph shall remain after this fifth paragraph. The President otherwise expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2513	We shall then vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 53d receives the following additions:However, it is permissible to remove rights information in such temporary copies referred to in Section 11a and in private use copies as described in Section 12, if this is necessary to allow other legal uses.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2649	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. Here, the Right Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2661	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2669	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-7, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 8 and 9, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 2, 4 and 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2857	Paragraphs 5-5 and 5-6 contain a proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law of higher education, new § 5-5 and new § 5-6 shall be replaced by:§ 5-5 School environment selection at primary schoolsIn each primary school, there shall be a school environment selection. In the school environment selection, the pupils, the parental council, the students, the school leaders and the municipality should be represented. The school environment selection must be composed in such a way that the representatives of pupils and parents are combined. When the board acts as a school environment committee, additional representatives of students and parents must be appointed to bring them together more than one.The student representatives should not be present when matters covered by legal obligations are dealt with in the school environment committee. Where pupils are not present, the parents’ representatives shall have the same votes as those of their student representatives, or the number of parental representatives shall be increased accordingly. The school environment selection will contribute to the active participation of schools, students and parents in the work of creating a good school environment. The school environment selection has the right to comment on all issues related to the school environment, cf. Chapter 9a.§ 5-6 School environment selection at secondary schoolsIn each secondary school, it should be a school environment selection. In the school environment selection, students, students, school leaders and county councils should be represented. The school environment selection must be composed in a multi-stakeholder manner. It can be a school environment selection itself. When the board acts as a school environment selection, one or more additional representatives of the students must be appointed to give them multiples. The school environment selection will contribute to the active participation of the school, the addendum and the students in the work of creating a good school environment. The school environment selection has the right to comment on all issues related to the school environment, cf. Chapter 9a.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2947	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 5 by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 10-9 of the Training Act is replaced by the following:The person to be admitted to secondary school must provide a police record. The certificate shall show whether the person concerned is convicted of sexual assault.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2966	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 10-9 of the Training Act is replaced by the following: The person to be admitted to secondary school must provide a police record. The certificate shall show whether the victim is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault. Persons convicted of sexual assault against children cannot be added to primary school. The fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:Persons working in primary and secondary schools, who are targeted or accused of sexual assault, cannot carry out work involving contact with the elephants at school. Persons convicted of sexual assault shall be dismissed from their position.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2988	Rolf Rikvam has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2991	This concerns the voting of Section 10-9. As the vote was put up, we got a vote in favour of our own proposal, but we are going to vote against both the proposal of the Progress Party and the vote, so that voting cannot be set up in the way it is set up. We have to be able to vote against both.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e2996	Then we shall have a new vote, which Mr Reikvam, the representative, has asked for. It is then first voted on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3008	The Committee's position on Section 10-9 of the new third paragraph is then disputed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3021	Paragraphs 10 to 9 of the present third paragraph shall then become the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3069	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, new § 11-5a shall be replaced by:§ 11-5a School environment selection at secondary schoolsIn each secondary school, there shall be a school environment selection. In the school environment selection process, students, parents, students, school leaders and the county community should be represented. The school environment selection must be composed in such a way that the representatives of pupils and parents are in several languages. When the school selection acts as a school environment selection, one or more additional representatives of students and parents must be appointed to give them multiples. The school environment selection will contribute to the active participation of schools, students and parents in the work of creating a good school environment. The school environment selection has the right to comment on all issues related to the school environment, cf. Chapter 9a.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3189	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 6) by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 4-3 of the Law on Secondary Education is replaced by the following: The person to be admitted to secondary school approved under the laws here must produce a police certificate. The certificate shall show whether the person concerned is convicted of sexual assault.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3209	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 6. by the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3212	It's going to be the same problem there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3219	That is the first time that proposal No has been voted on. 6, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 4-3 of the Law on Secondary Education is replaced by the following: The person to be admitted to a secondary school approved by the law here must produce a police record. The certificate shall show whether the victim is intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault. People convicted of sexual assault against children cannot be added to primary school.The fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:Persons working in primary school and in secondary school approved under the laws here, who are targeted or accused of sexual assault, cannot do work that leads to contact with the elephants at school. Persons convicted of sexual assault shall be dismissed from the post as such.The present third paragraph shall become the fifth paragraph."
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3242	The Committee's decision to refer to the new third paragraph of Section 4-3 and to the fourth paragraph of Section 4-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3306	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3316	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3331	The B and C of the adjustment will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3339	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-04-lower.ana.ud1032e3510	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
