ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e52	That a country's head of state thinks it's in place to ask for another country to cease to exist is not only remarkable, but it's macabre. This was no mistake from the President either. He repeated himself shortly after. The human rights situation in Iran is documented to be very negative. In particular, this affects women and too often children. Fundamentalist interpretation of Islam is behind and makes the Iranian regime today appear to be one of the most brutal. That it referred to the girl at approx. 19 years of mental retardation with an estimated age of eight years, the death penalty was released, is worth recording. But the fact that she is requited to 99 whips in addition to prison is just sad – and that for crimes that are only about morality, and where she is obviously the victim of a man-dominated culture and fanatical interpretation of Islam. Unfortunately, there are also many other issues relating to the regime in Iran that cause disgust and that cause me concern. Intolerance and hatred, especially toward Jews and Israel, are gradually well known. The spread of a hateful message both orally and in writing is well documented. The indoctrination of children to hate Jews is one of the most cruel, as well as significant activity to rewrite history and explain holocaust as a lie staged by Jews for sympathy. The development of nuclear technology is high on the international agenda, and this has gradually become almost a cat and mouse game, where Iran buys time with ever-increasing curvatures. The lack of democracy is not unique to Iran, but while many believed that a few years ago Iran was moving in a more moderate and democratic direction, recent developments have also shown that the situation is deteriorating. Support for terrorist groups, especially in the Middle East, is also a way of profiling Iran. And on the Israeli and Palestinian sides, there is despair about the role of the Iranian regime in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The same is true in Lebanon, and not least in Iraq. At home in Iran, the performance, president or other leading persons do not conceal their hatred of the United States and the West, and in particular Israel. They play with open cards. Now I am well aware that, of course, the actions of the Iranian regime are not applauded by the Norwegian side. There have been protests, and we adopt the necessary condemnations of the human rights situation in the United Nations. My concern today is whether there is no need for tougher policies, where we take a more distance from the Iranian regime, and where we are peacefully seeking to signal that we do not accept any behaviour, and that we want to change – for the benefit of democracy, human rights and tolerance. Different types of sanctions or boycotts in relation to a country are relevant instruments. Here, there are many opportunities — from full boycott, diplomatic and economic — to more targeted sanctions aimed at, for example: leadership of a country. Norway has been at the forefront of the isolation of the apartheid regime in South Africa a few years ago and has gradually gained broad international support for such a policy. Now you should be careful to say that the boycott of South Africa was what triggered the end of the apartheid regime, but there is no doubt that it contributed, and that it showed to the world that regimes that rank the population by race do not deserve our respect. Today, the Iranian regime has the same intolerance to women and religious minorities as South Africa in its time to people who were not white. Other countries also experience both Norwegian and international isolation. Belarus and Burma are two examples. Going to action against another country should preferably be done on a broad international basis, but some have to take the first step. As the story of South Africa shows, we chose to be among the first to show the way. It has helped to serve Norway's relationship with South Africa after it became democratic and free. Now one can probably argue forcefully that boycott will only strengthen the regime and that constructive dialogue is better. But how constructive is this dialogue when Norwegian business interests, of which more with the state as a participant, continue to increase their involvement in Iran? It almost seems as if the worse the situation gets into Iran, the more business we do with the country. In the foreign policy debate on 17 February this year, the then head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, raised this issue. I'll quote from his speech: ‘I therefore think it is a significant problem that Norway is increasing its financial involvement in Iran without any clear Norwegian policy. It looks like it's the private initiative that decides our involvement. In this way, we can damage what has been a Norwegian main line and a Norwegian main project in the Middle East, namely to create peace based on the two-state solution. Iran is in favour of a one-state solution. The country has a policy of destroying the State of Israel. This is why Hezbollah is supported. They have activities both in southern Lebanon, targeting Israel in the north and infiltrating the West Bank and Gaza. If we are to find peace in the Middle East, we need to develop a common European and American strategy to change the Iranian regime's policy in terms of both the position of nuclear weapons and support for terrorist groups. Norway must play with Europe, which is now using trade policies to achieve this.’ In winter, the Minister of Industry planned to bring with him an entire delegation of business leaders to Iran to promote Norwegian-Iran relations. After strong pressure from Stortinget, not least from the representative Jagland, there was nothing of this trip. However, the fact that at all, while the EU and the United States are trying to get Iran to the negotiating table and to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency, such activities are planning, unfortunately testify that the Norwegian authorities have not taken the necessary critical position on the Tehran regime, and that the Norwegian side has not seen it as an objective to contribute to the necessary positive change in Iran. It can also be claimed that if we do not participate with our oil companies in Iran, other countries would like to seize the chance. Yeah, in the short term, that's probably right. But one thing is that we should not have to deal with any regime at any cost. The second is that once today's regime is gone and a new democratic regime is established, it will undoubtedly be an advantage to have pursued a policy that the Iranian people feel has contributed to democracy – not a policy for maintaining a totalitarian regime. We also need to think in this area in the long term about Norwegian business. I hope that the new government will be more active and more critical and pursue a policy towards Iran that does not leave any doubt about what we mean, and that will help the sooner the better to create a positive change in Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e89	The representative, Høglund, raises an important question – and an important debate – that I am pleased to have the opportunity to answer today in the Stortinget. On 9 November, in the ordinary Question Time, the representatives of Vallersnes and Skovholt Gitmark raised questions related to the situation in Iran, and I would like to refer to the answers I gave there for the sake of order. The government is following developments in Iran closely. The election of radical Ahmadinejad as new president in June marked a setback for the reform forces. The ultra-conservative wing is in the process of exerting increased power and control. That gives cause for concern. The hope of openings for more democracy, more freedom of expression and more human rights that we suspected a few years ago seems to have ceased. At the same time, the domestic policy situation after the elections remains unclear. There shall be no doubt that the Government will follow this situation closely and take a critical position. Several aspects of development are alarming, as the representative, Mr Høglund, points out. Not least this concerns the serious human rights situation. The groups that want democratic development in the country are actively countered by the authorities, and the powers of the authorities are many. In recent months, we have also noted that Iran shows a lack of willingness to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, and with the international community on increasing transparency in their nuclear programme. It is essential that Norway and related countries act collectively and clearly towards the Iranian authorities. This is what Norway is doing, and this government is going to continue to do. There is a choice between two strategies in cooperation with countries that are leading a policy far from the humanistic and democratic values on which we build our society, and the values to which the world community has joined through the United Nations. On the one hand, as a symbolic act, we can cut off all our bilateral relations. On the other hand, we can choose to maintain active and critical dialogue. Of course, there are also intermediate solutions, but as a contribution to the debate, we can say that these are two extreme points. In the choice between them, it is the government's assessment that it is through critical dialogue and commitment that we can best contribute to influencing politics and development. Let me use the example of the representative, Høglund, the case of the 19-year-old mentally retarded woman who got international attention. Had all the doors been closed, her story had not come out, and we had not been able to respond. Norway and other countries protested the punishment, we had channels to use to make our views known. The judgment has now been revised – and, as I explained in the Questionnaire on 9 November, we are now following the case further up. As another example, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we had Tuesday this week talks with the Iranian Minister of State Jalili about the conditions of human rights and the Iranian nuclear programme. This is a natural part of the dialogue with Iranian authorities. There we also took up the situation of this woman and a number of other conditions. These are examples of the importance of dialogue. Different types of contact surfaces provide a platform for influence, while isolation and boycott can lead to the opposite. A Norway which has no channels other than those of the Resolutions will not necessarily be heard. My goal is also to intensify political dialogue, a broad dialogue, with other countries, and with a critical focus on the conditions that warrant it. I think this is an important track that can contribute to change in the long term, especially when several countries adopt the same approach. In addition, the importance of having contacts with several parts of Iranian society, although this may be demanding. Part of this approach involves keeping Norwegian companies operating in Iran continuously informed about these issues as well. Once again, we see it so that the presence of Norwegian companies can contribute to a less closed Iran rather than keeping companies outside. However, companies themselves need to assess the risks and challenges of involvement in the country. Let me take a closer look at the human rights situation in Iran. Respect for the rule of law in Iran is lacking: arbitrary arrests, confessions under coercion, torture and harassment of political oppositionals are not uncommon. Iran’s ethnic and religious minorities are subject to discrimination, in some cases also to persecution. Iran is also one of the countries that executes most people in the world. Norway’s attitude to the death penalty is clear, and we always address the use of the death penalty in our contact with countries where it is used. In Iran minors are also sentenced to death. This is despite the fact that Iran has ratified the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Rights of Children. Basic human rights are enshrined in the Iranian Constitution. However, there are also constitutional provisions in Iran that say that rights can be restricted if they conflict with religion. In the Children's Convention, the Iranian authorities have reserved themselves against articles they consider to be contrary to Islamic law. It is not acceptable for Iran to reserve itself against the human rights obligations in this way. Similarly, it is unacceptable that reservations be made against those parts of the Conventions which are contrary to the purpose of the Conventions. We will never accept that human rights do not prevail. Human rights are universal; they apply to all people regardless of sex, religion and cultural background. Women have inadequate legal protection in Iranian society. In the former reform-friendly Parliament that worked until 2004, there was a women’s fraction that tried to promote legislative proposals to improve women’s rights. With the new Parliament, this opportunity is gone. Iran has also not ratified the UN Women's Convention. It is once again alarming because it offers a position which is very serious in politics. From the Norwegian side, we work in several ways to influence the Iranian authorities to improve the human rights situation, and I think it might be useful for the debate that I briefly mention some of these. As I have already said, human rights are regularly included in our bilateral political talks with the Iranian authorities. That also happens when the Iranian ambassador in Oslo is called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is now this year in August, and which is quite recently after the opinions on Israel. Norway has on several occasions given support to declarations and critical manufactures, known as démarches, promoted by the EU. These have addressed both individual cases and more general developments in the human rights situation in Iran. In many cases, it has had an impact on individuals' case. It is important to continue this cooperation with other related countries in order to strengthen the potential for influence and pressure. On several occasions, we have expressed concern about the human rights situation in Iran at the UN General Assembly and at the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. Norway has also been the co-rapporteur for the resolution on the human rights situation in Iran since it was first presented at the UN General Assembly in 2003. The resolution was adopted by 18 November at the latest this year. Cooperation between Norwegian and Iranian judicial authorities has been initiated. This is positive. The judges from Iran are invited to get an insight into the work of the Norwegian judiciary. The aim is to transfer knowledge of central rule of law. We also follow the work of the international human rights organisations in and towards Iran. Let me draw attention to the importance of the work that these organisations are doing. And let me mention the dialogue we have here with winners of the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, Shirin Ebadi, recently invited to Norway by the Government. Let me also briefly comment on some aspects of the domestic policy situation in order to complement the picture. The election of the new president has helped to strengthen revolutionary Islamic objectives. At the same time, the rhetoric towards the Western world has become firm. An example here is the statement that ‘Israel must be wiped out’ from the map, to which the representative Høglund referred. We took a strong distance from this statement. The Iranian ambassador was summoned to the ministry to receive our protest. It is totally unacceptable that a head of state presents threats to another state. The opinion is unfortunate for the Middle East peace process and for other developments in the region. After Ahmadinejad's election, pragmatic and reformist groups have called for the President to be more cautious about anti-Western rhetoric, precisely in order to avoid further isolation of Iran internationally. Iran's top management has tried to restore a more balanced relationship between the revolutionary circle around the President and the more pragmatic camp around former President Rafsanjani. This shows that the domestic policy situation is not unambiguous. Another aspect is Iran’s unwillingness to cooperate with the IAEA on its nuclear programme. Norway supports the EU countries’ initiative to achieve a diplomatic solution under the IAEA, and as a member of the IAEA Governing Board, Norway now has a special responsibility to help maintain the international pressure on Iran to ensure that it does not resume the production of high-rich uranium, which can be used in the manufacture of nuclear weapons. The outcome of the board meeting in the IAEA yesterday I am satisfied with. It shows that there is a political will to achieve a negotiated solution. Along this line, we will now work, as the representative, Mr Höglund, with the countries that are close to us. It is necessary for the Iranian authorities to show full transparency and to comply with the demands of the international community. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of Norway now strengthening its work with the neighbouring country towards Iran. We need to use all available means and channels to influence Iranian society to evolve in a more open, moderate and democratic direction. And let me underline: Iran is a country with a rich culture and a rich civilization. We want close cooperation with the country, its people, and with respect for inequalities. But at the same time, we must say from when basic principles are broken. Our dialogue must be clear and critical. We are following developments in Iran closely, and we are continuously assessing all aspects of our bilateral cooperation. If there is a need to change the current strategy, I will return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e138	I would first like to express my joy at the fact that the Government and I – and the Progress Party – have the same objective: to bring about a change to the positive in Iran. I did not propose that we should necessarily go to the full boikot of Iran – both diplomatic and economic. I asked that we assess what opportunities we have – something the Minister of Foreign Affairs also said. And I see that having a diplomatic presence can have its benefits to individuals. This week, as far as I have been informed, at least by Iranian media, there was a joint assessment of relations between Iran and Norway. It took place here in Oslo, where the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs in Iran, Saeed Jalili, and State Secretary Raymond Johansen met. If I believe what is quoted in Iran, the Norwegian Secretary of State expressed hope for enhanced cooperation – political, economic, social and cultural. The Minister of Foreign Affairs may, if appropriate, correct the picture given in the Iranian media. I do not think this is necessarily a positive contribution to the debate. I accept a certain presence, but that we are expanding our cooperation in the situation we now have, I find very worrying. In addition, the same Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from Iran met with State Secretary Anita Useth in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. She could tell that a high-ranking Norwegian delegation will visit Iran early in December to attend an oil seminar – also a kind of activity I find strange. Kofi Annan has currently chosen not to visit Tehran - he did not find the time right. Is the time for the Norwegian Government to send a high-level delegation? Once again, I take a reservation: the quotes are from Iranian news sources. In Norwegian media I have not found a word about this. In press releases from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, I have not found a single word, either about the visit or about the cooperation Norway-Iran. I also find it a little strange that I have to go to Iranian sources to find out about this visit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e154	It is true that this Minister of State for Foreign Affairs was in Norway – I mentioned it in my speech. I also agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, in his clarification that we can hardly use Iranian media as truth witnesses in terms of the content of political talks in Oslo – I think we should stress that – and that the report on what was said by Norwegian representatives in those talks is not fully reproduced. If I should first say something about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' conversation, I would like to say that we have stressed that we have a dialogue with Iran – we have a cooperation with Iran. But the idea of expanding that cooperation in the perspective to which the Iranian Minister has referred is not in line with reality. There is a reference to what we want to have a dialogue with Iran, that it should also cover the areas of culture and social issues. I mentioned the example of the court exchange. We also have cooperation in the petroleum sector between authorities – as a result of our common interests in this area. But this is not a political signal to extend the links. I agree with the representative of Höglund that it is not time to send a signal in the form of a high-level visit to Iran. That delegations from Norway on the oil side are in Iran, is a natural result of our having companies working there and of our cooperation in the field of petroleum. But the fact that, for example, The Norwegian Prime Minister – or other members of the Government, for that matter – would make a high profile visit to Iran in the current situation, is not on our agenda. Here, I think we need to distinguish between the fact that there is a relationship and a dialogue between Norway and Iran – which is reflected in the fact that there is not a full boycott, that there is no travel ban, and that there are actually delegations that are going back and forth – and our own understanding that this is happening within the framework of a critical dialogue. The role that Norway has played in the United Nations, and the role that we now play in the IAEA administration, speaks more about the line we have than what an Iranian Minister of State chooses to report, and what a newspaper editorial under political control chooses to represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e169	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important debate. I think, unfortunately, that the interpellant is right that the presidential elections in Iran have shown that there is not much hope for a development in a more moderate and democratic direction. The fact that a 19-year-old mentally retarded girl has been sentenced to 99 whips shows this with all manner of clarity. It's a torture we can hardly imagine, and she barely survives. There has also been strong political pressure from several countries against the original death sentence — she should have been stoned to death. The question is whether this is so much better. I would like to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it is important that Norway and neighbouring countries – I think that is what he said – act collectively and clearly towards the Iranian authorities. And it is necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to follow the specific case further. This debate takes place on the international day to combat violence against women. The day is marked all over the world and reminds us of the unfathomable suffering that many women around are suffering. Iran is certainly one of the worst. Women also lack legal protection and discrimination against women is part of a systematic violation of human rights. Respect for the rule of law is very poor in Iran. I can mention that on 19 July this year, two boys, aged 16 and 18 respectively, were publicly hanged by the Iranian regime. Before hanging it was given 228 whips. The reason: Teenagers had apparently had sex with each other. During the 26-year-old regime of the Ayatollanes, at least 100,000 people have been killed by the authorities, largely after violations of national religious law. A typical example is the killing of women by the state – of course after so-called adultery. Just after the Taliban took power in Afghanistan, I read a detailed description of the stoning of the first woman under the new regime. Then I sat on a plane to England, and I read a British newspaper. It was a shocking reading. Fortunately, the Taliban is now away from Afghanistan. But women have a long, long way to go. The respect for women is very low there as well. When the previous Defence Committee visited Afghanistan in March of this year, we had discussions with several of the voluntary organizations that could report on shocking cases of violence against women, and that society has been permeated by just violence against women. Let's remind ourselves on November 25 that we've made a terrible deal, and that we must never give up fighting violence and torture against women. Norway now has a strong commitment in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a country of cooperation for Norwegian aid, and we have stabilising peacekeeping forces in that country. Let our dialogue with Iran be clear and critical. We're not going to accept the abuses that are happening today. I am pleased with the signals made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how to deal with our relationship with Iran in the future. I believe it is important that we keep following, not least in the way women are treated, but also in other forms of human rights violations, which unfortunately seem to be worsening in Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e195	In the November 9 issue, the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered a question about the 19-year-old Iranian mentally retarded woman, focusing on how much to tolerate before having consequences for other bilateral relations with the same country. Today’s interpellation addresses a broader issue on relations with Iran, with reference also to the nuclear programme and the unheard-of opinions on Israel and hence the threat to stability in an entire region – which has already been haunted enough. What are the prerequisites for Iran's policy? Since the Islamic revolution in 1979, Iranian society and politics have been dominated by a continuing conflict between two groups: reformists and conservatives. The Islamic Republic is similarly based on two conflicting elements: the theocratic and the democratic. The Constitution is therefore a mixture of institutions with elected legitimacy and non-elected institutions with legitimacy for the performance. The balance between these two is crooked in favor of the conservatives after the last elections, which led to Ahmadinejad becoming president. Today, the regime seems relatively stable, and we can hardly expect rapid changes. One shall, however, bear in mind that the President has limited influence on foreign policy, where he shares responsibility with the National Security Council and not least with Chief Executive Ali Khamenei. What are Iran's foreign policy objectives? It appears that a main objective is to increase influence in its own region, and in particular over Shia groups in the Middle East and in Central Asia. It follows: The desire for a weak Iraq2. that Iraq does not, however, break up, because independence from Iraqi Kurds can spread to Iran's own Kurdish minority3. One would like to see South Iraq become a Shiadominated province with a high degree of autonomy and control of the main gravity of Iraq's oil reserves For the West, the concern is: the nuclear programme support for the terrorist group threat to Israel and not least the lack of respect for human rights; The last one has been documented by several people here today. Since the late 1990s, the United States and the EU have tried different strategies to influence Iran. In summary, both the US coercive strategy and the EU carrot strategy have failed to influence the country’s nuclear development. In addition to the danger of regional nuclear disarmament, there is a risk that nuclear weapons may end up with terrorists. Fear is reinforced by past experience with a country that has repeatedly violated international standards without having to account for it. Therefore, it seems unconvincing when it is now claimed that the nuclear enrichment programme will only serve to modernise the country and strengthen independence. Sounds like an echo from Pakistan in the 1980s and 1990s. Is it possible to influence Iran through confidence building measures? In particular, the EU has tried this in the last two years. The result is slim, partly because the EU is hardly perceived as dangerously strong, and partly because the ‘gilts’ have not been fat enough. Traditionally, one is left with three different strategies: 1st@item: inlistbox Military action. Hardly realistic, not least after the experience in Iraq.2. Penalties — in the form of targeted measures or an oil blockade. It may be worth considering, but is probably difficult, not least because of the consequences it has on surrounding countries such as India and Turkey. The experience from Iraq is also not stimulating.3. Perhaps the most recent: stronger cooperation with tempting enough advantages, which is more in line with the foreign minister’s suggestions. At the same time, there is a debate about referring Iran to the assessment of the Security Council. It will be a blind lead unless China and Russia support the necessary measures. Initiative on a collaborative project on nuclear development with Russia may be interesting, but must then be linked with broad, positive instruments. No matter which track you choose, it is hardly realistic to achieve something without good cooperation between the United States and the EU. And what is Norway going to do? We should be an active part of the broad international press group that needs to be established. This is not the case with unilateral measures. So here, as in so many other important foreign policy contexts, it's about taking care of the alliances and friends of our country. It gives us security, but also the ability to play a real role in solving international problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e262	The interpellant takes on an important theme. There is no doubt that the regime in Iran is guilty of many serious human rights violations and abuses. Oppositionals are being imprisoned and executed. Freedom of expression will be shattered. There will be a drop in protests among workers. Claims from minorities on the right to own languages and culture are met with sanctions and elections. And the situation has worsened in recent years and further worsened after the election of the new president. Like the representative of Marit Nybakk, today, on the international day against violence against women and on the day when the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights launched a 16-day action against gender-based violence, I will concentrate on the serious human rights violations that are taking place against women and girls in Iran. Iran is a country with strong patriarchal structures and a fundamentalist priesthood, a country where women are controlled and held back and the stones of actions that would not even be regarded as a crime in our country. The UN Special Rapporteur in the field of women's power carried out an official visit to Iran early this year and reported that many women in Iran are being subjected to psychological, sexual and physical violence in their family context. The laws and practice of them do not provide these women with the necessary protection. Missing protection has serious consequences. The UN rapporteur suggests that a large number of women commit suicide because one does not have adequate protection. Last year the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on the human rights situation in Iran. There is one reference to systematic discrimination against women and girls, both through law and in practice. The resolution also refers to the Vacant Council's lack of willingness to do something about the situation, and it is our duty to say clearly what we mean. But then we can ask ourselves, what would have happened if the girl who is sentenced to 99 whips had come out of Iran before she was imprisoned? What would have happened if she had sought protection in Norway? Had she been denied the asylum application? Had she been threatened, or had she been told that the police in Iran would protect her from abuse? We have examples of Iranian women who are ill-treated and threatened with life being refused asylum applications, with notice that the Iranian police will protect them. Supporting the fight for democracy and human rights is a primary objective. It must also apply to women's rights in Iran. There's no easy way, but it's important to support the inner and outer opposition and be clear about what we mean about what's happening. I am pleased that the interpellant has raised the question, and I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has been very clear today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e277	Like the speakers who have spoken before me, I will give tribute to the representative, Højlund, for the interpellation and the width of the interpellation. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned about the situation in the Middle East and Iran. Regional stability is worsening, and the elected one is increasing. The 2004 elections in Iran led to a marked decline in reform-friendly forces. It is a universal belief that it is the religious leadership, with the Khamanei and the Watch Tower Council, that makes up the real center of power today, or else the Nobel Prize-winning Ebadi actually won the line when she was in Norway and had a meeting with the Foreign Affairs Committee in connection with her getting the Peace Prize. Even then she said that it was the Watch Tower Council who had the ultimate word in matters that affected women, who claimed religious freedom, and who claimed human rights. But with the election of Conservative Ahmadinejad as President this year, democratic developments in Iran are going in a further negative direction. The President reinforced the regional tension with the intention that Israel should be erased from the map. It's a very serious opinion from the leadership of a country that's a member of the United Nations. We also have examples of Iranian TV manning the extermination of Israel on October 28th this year. We are wise not to underestimate these statements and statements, especially from a country that does not cooperate on nuclear programs, and which is already a strong force factor in the area. And it's a question of not such a case – when a country that is a member of the UN is threatening the eradication of another UN member country – is a matter for the Security Council. Furthermore, it is very serious to register the absence of civil political and religious rights in Iran and how the regime treats its own people. The death sentence against Leyla Mafi weighed strong international reactions. In Norway, more than 19,000 acted against the judgment. Mafi is a retarded person and was selected and forced into prostitution as a child. She had children when she was 9 years old, and then she was 14 years old, and both times she was sentenced to 100 whippings for prostitution. It's dramatic to see how a society can first force a girl into prostitution and then then punish against the consequences of it. Like the representative Nybakk, I would like to say that the death sentence was changed, but the punishment is still untimely. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is I am also very concerned that there are so many gross violations of human rights in Iran, especially against women and children, and I agree with the representatives of Elvik and Nybakk that during the day we can have women in particular in focus. The execution of children is formally illegal in Iran, but Amnesty can prove that children were recently sentenced to death in Iran. No society can be called civilised without the rights of children and women being respected. Shirin Ebadi received the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts for democracy and human rights, and especially for his struggle for the rights of women and children. Norway must be with her in the fight for human rights. I would like to welcome all the measures taken by the Foreign Minister named by Norway on the wallpaper vis-à-vis Iran. Based on the experience of Burma, I'll ask you a question about boycott. Internationally, we have one example of shine, that's South Africa. The others have very rarely been shown to work. Therefore, the other must have been tried to end first, and so I support the line that the Foreign Minister has set up on behalf of the Government. But finally, I also want to say that it is alarming that both women and converts are being sent back to Iran from Norway. They can be shown to be in serious difficulties. We have to come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e296	I would first like to thank the interpellant. I think that was a very important question. It was a question I raised in the Questionnaire several times in the previous period, which has also been raised in this period. The fight against totalitarian regimes should occupy Norway, and it always takes us more liberally. I also agree with the conclusion that is well beginning to be drawn in this hall, linked to boycott. Such grips have rarely worked, as the representative Lilletun pointed out. It usually affects the weakest. Often, boycott can be used to strengthen leaders in a society morally. It is often the case that trade increases understanding between countries, not the opposite. I am very pleased with the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and agree with his belief in dialogue. But I also think it is important for us to support under the oppositional forces that exist, even though not everyone fully agrees with our image neither of democracy nor of democratic attitudes. There are two things I especially want to take up from a left-hand point of view. It's the same commitment that both Lilletun, Nybakk and Elvik have here, related to focusing on women. In the fight against such totalitarian regimes, it is very important to have the spotlight on some of those who suffer absolutely the most, and it is in this context especially women. From this pulpit there are a number of examples of the abuses that are taking place and of the violations of human rights that are taking place. I think it's important for us to focus on it. It's important to be able to have a large international pressure, because here the unfairness is displayed too well. The second thing I want to address – and which has been the honor of the Left in this region – is that the growing distrust between the Muslim and the Christian world may be one of the major challenges facing the world now. I think it's a bigger challenge now than it was before, especially in the media world in which we live, where it's so easy to choose the information channel that only provides confirmation of one's own prejudices, one's own attitudes and one's own political stance. We live in an information world where the amount of information is so large that we can actually only choose to confirm our own attitudes at any time. What I think is a little daunting is that all the arrests, both in the context of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs today presented, and what the EU is doing in this area, are largely state-to-state and state-pressed against state pressure. I think it's people for people-cooperation that can make it possible to fight totalitarian regimes, bring people together and break down some attitudes. This is why the Left's position is that with a little of what Norway and Western Europe did in mini-version when democracy was to be built in Eastern Europe – party cooperation, cooperation with women's organisations, more people for people's meetings and NGOs – one can actually break down some attitudes and break information channels that today only confirm our own prejudices. I believe that more should be invested in such people for people-cooperation, building up sister parties, women's organisations and solidarity projects that are not only from above and down, but are also about cooperation on a more broad, popular basis. If we are to cope with the challenges of this growing conflict, not only the Heads of State must cooperate, then people must also cooperate on a fundamental human basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e314	It is not difficult to join the inter-pellant Høglund's concern about the situation in Iran. The description he's given, we're also in the Center Party on the way. The discussion will then be what action we should take to be involved in developing the situation in a more positive direction. It would well be to make the concept far to say that we are facing a young democracy. But we see a emerging democracy, and we see small steps in the right direction, where one can see indications of understanding of human rights and a better democracy. Through the contact I've been allowed to have with people from Iran, I have a clear opinion that there are growing forces inside that work in the right direction. But they're working hard, and they're having a hard time. I think in this way that last year's Nobel Prize winner Ebadi is a visible proof of these cancers that work this way. What is also positive is the fact that Iranians who had to flee the country in the past to secure their lives are today given a certain opening in order to come back to visit without risking being captured and interned. At the same time, we must take into account that the students show a grueling impatience and dissatisfaction over the lack of progress in the development of democracy. The sum of this makes me think I can emphasize some positive features that it is not so easy to see in the picture that is drawn in the media today. For us, it will be a difficult balance in our impatience to get a better situation for the people of Iran, while clearly demonstrating that young democracy is entitled to respect for the election that has been made and that we may find to be inadequate on our scale. We must show faith in the future and believe that the choices made in the wake of the election that was now will bring the country in a positive direction and give the people the democracy that they want. That is why the Central Party will clearly support the position that the Minister for Foreign Affairs called for us to have an active, critical dialogue, where we are building up under the forces within Iran which are fighting for a better and well-developed democracy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e325	I am very pleased that this topic is being addressed today, on the international day to combat violence against women. When every third woman in the world is subjected to violence, it tells us that this is a topic we need to debate more often. Women almost everywhere in the world have a much worse situation than men. Norway must work actively against female oppression and put more pressure on land that does not guarantee women equal rights to men. Violence against women is a violation of women's human rights. It's our job as elected representatives in Norway to raise their eyes beyond our borders and see what violations of rights happen every day in the rest of the world. To do something about repression and violation of rights requires international involvement and political pressure on regimes that do not fulfil human rights. Fine words do not help alone, and Norway has an obligation to fight against such injustices as the judgment against the 19-year-old girl mentioned in the interview. I want to focus on a group of people who experience oppression and persecution on their bodies every day just because they are themselves. Homophiles and lesbians elsewhere in the world are being oppressed and persecuted by authorities in many countries. Iran is considered to have one of the most oppressive regimes in the world, and along with Saudi Arabia, there is a practice of whipping and the death penalty for homophilis. Only this year we have a handful of examples of gays being sentenced to death because of their lay. By the beginning of November we had such a new case. The persecution of homosexuals by authorities is a serious violation of the UN Declaration of Human Rights that everyone has the right to life, freedom and personal security. In May Amnesty came up with a report documenting the extent of this type of assault. Over 30 countries, from China to Iran, are included in the report, and it is a frightening picture being drawn. For example, it is assumed that there are over 70 million gay Chinese, but in China there is no homophile officially. Most of these 70 million people have to live their lives in hiding. So in Iran, if you look like an open homophile, you're at risk of being stoned to death. When Iranian law punishes homosexuality with death, Norwegian authorities have to protest strongly, for example. through diplomatic sanctions. Human rights are rights Every human being has by virtue of being human. And Norway is obliged to work actively to ensure that the Convention is respected, not just in Norway, but worldwide. This needs to be the focus of Norwegian foreign policy. Norway must take every opportunity to protest against any infringement. I have no doubt great hopes for the new government's foreign policy, and I have great faith that the new foreign minister chooses to use Norway's voice to protest more quickly and to an even greater extent. I am very pleased with the signals he has given here today, because a more critical dialogue in Norwegian foreign policy is absolutely necessary. Norway has to become, and Norway has to be, a vigilance guard that cuts off every time reports of human rights violations are revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e340	The interpellant is addressing some main themes today, such as polarization in the Middle East and human rights violations. My question, which I'm going to come back to, is whether there might be a context there. Then a specific question is simply asked: What should Norway do? I think that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has signaled today is a good piece on the way we should go. The more economic relations we have with countries, the better the dialogue on human rights, if any, and the closer and more committed the dialogue on human rights should be. We know that we have a close and good human rights dialogue with neighbouring Turkey. I'm not going to do any summary of those results, but things can move slowly, but surely. The more obligating we can be, the better it is. So back to this with polarization: everyone who in the 1970s sat down to read leaflets, there would almost every week get a little glimpse, a little picture of the Shah of Persia, Shah Reza, and Farah Dibah. Then they were part of our closest cultural circle -- no doubt about it. It was idyllic. And now, not long after, a generation after, it's completely opposite. Now we're going to say that we're going to get scared, and we're going to send back statements that are always misunderstood. We know that in the Iranian revolution there were many more forces than those that got the ultimate power, the ayatolls. It was a very broad movement that created that revolution. There were women, there were districts, there were a lot of representatives there. But unfortunately, as in so many other revolutions, he became the chair of someone. What we're going to bring with us in this image is that what's being said by the leaders of the regime today is not necessarily an expression of what the whole Iranian people think. I thought we should have this with us. We can move north. From Tehran up to Tabriz and through Silkevegen, we suddenly see Ararat – Noah’s ark – which is part of our cultural base. It's no longer gone. We know that Ararat is in Turkey, while the Armenians think that the mountain is theirs. And that's their national mountain. We go quickly across cultural boundaries here, so we can get on our feet by signaling, and we should therefore think about it when we express ourselves. We know that if we go even a little further north, we are in a central area where human rights have been absent for the last ten years, in our neighbouring country Russia, in Chechnya. What are we going to pick? Shall we choose God, or shall we choose Mammon? Shall we turn the cloak after the economic wind? Or are we going to have financial interests in such a way that we can see ourselves in the eye of what we think should be the ideals for human rights? I hear the signals that have arrived today. I think we're going to get even better signals from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the more we have economic relations with a country, the more we're going to have to have a real, careful and binding human rights dialogue. That is the only way we can have economic – Norwegian, state – business in a country. We also know that at the heart of the Middle East conflict lies the solution to the Israeli-Palestinian question. This is where the United Nations has been. We know that the whole region is hungry for a solution to this problem. Maybe, one day when we get a solution to this, it'll also be the political overarching that makes the human rights situation better. I myself, along with the interpellant, have had contact with some of the opposition members from Iran in the previous period. It has our fruit, and it has our interesting. We know that the opposition isn't always right, either. But having that contact is important. We also know that when it comes to both Kurds, Bahais and women, there is a structure of the abuses that are taking place in Iran. And then we have what has been well documented here today, assault on individuals. This has to be an end. Norway must respond to this. I support the initiatives and the signals that have come from the Minister of Foreign Affairs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e359	It is gratifying to record that there is a broad commitment among all parties to the situation in Iran. Many took up the situation for women and girls, and that is probably some of the strongest expression of what this regime stands for. I visited Iraq last year and met many Iranian refugees who had crossed the border because of the opening that had then become - girls down into the 14th century, who reported stories that it is difficult to think back on. Of course you get a commitment to it, because you feel that something so foreign, something so malicious we have to deal with. That's a little bit of the commitment I bring into this debate, in the light of two current news issues. I fully understand that we're at an intersection, where real policy is part of the picture. However, at other times Norway has, in other contexts, often stood up and talked the case of the oppressed with a strong voice. I'm not saying we're not doing this right now, but maybe we have an opportunity to be clearer than we've been, and maybe we can increase the intensity. Following the statements of the Iranian President concerning Israel, the Italian Foreign Minister chose to protest outside the Iranian Embassy in Roma. Now I'm not saying that because I want the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs to repeat that experiment, but this has a strong commitment. Several European countries chose to call home their ambassadors for consultations — also a way of responding. Norway called the Iranian ambassador, but a little late perhaps, in my opinion, and with almost no press coverage. There was talk about our ability to address the situation of the oppressed when we have a diplomatic dialogue, and I respect it. I see that there is something that is problematic. Nevertheless, when we had a nearly total boycott of South Africa, we stood up for the prisoners, not least for Nelson Mandela, but also for many others. Their case was raised again and again from interlocutors all over the democratic world. It might have helped to save their situation, to make them free. It's possible to have an engagement without having the dense connection we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e372	Let me again thank you for the question and the commitment of the representative, Höglund. I want to do two reflections in my summary. The first one focuses on how the involvement of individuals affects the view of policies between countries. I think many of the speeches we have had about the situation of women, about the situation of homosexuals, about other life-views – the whole aspect that boils down to the value of the individual in this country – and the insertion of the representative Höglund now, where he withdraws his experience from conversations with individuals back to this room when we discuss relations between countries, I believe is an important development in international politics. So it's not that human rights violations are internal issues that no one else can care about. That's why we have the UN, and that's why we have global conventions that we have to deal with. I can only confirm that from our side we attach great importance to following up the individual matters and putting them into the principal contexts where they belong. With regard to the statement – just let me say it – attached to Israel, there is no doubt that our voice will be heard. A little while ago, I was in the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs and met my colleague, and it had been clearly noticed – at least there, and it is not an unimportant place – that Norway had taken a clear position. Then I would also like to say that the debate we have had today has illustrated some of the complexity – because this is difficult. Many of our emotional approaches are drawing toward saying boycott, closing the connections to such a regime. I also believe that the representative Vallersnes gave a very good summary of the wider political situation in the region, and I agree with his analysis of the three options you are actually facing, which, in doubt, are landing on the fact that there is critical cooperation and commitment that must be the track. This region is thus woven together in complex relationships between people, ethnicity and economic relations, and what we are witnessing today in Iraq, underlines some of the difficulties with a brutal armed intervention. I can at least say from our side that the representative Jacobsen's statement here on the more economic cooperation, the more human rights dialogue, I think is a good summary, not just of our relationship with Iran, but I also think about our relationship with our neighbor in the East, Russia – just to mention it. There we now have a broad dialogue with many dimensions. It provides, among other things: the opportunity to address the situation that we have become familiar with in the last few days, namely that it will end the possibility of supporting NGOs in Russia. We now need to clarify what this really is about, but it's another example that we have a lot of channels in order to have a versatile dialogue. That's the way China has been. There is cooperation in politics, economics and culture that gives us the opportunity to cooperate on human rights. It may be difficult in a world as brutal as it is in this region, but I think it's the right track to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e387	Then the interpellation debate is on case no. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e405	First, I would like to say that I think it is commendable that the new oil and energy minister at the very beginning of this period decided that he would work for us to have at least a balance of power, and to improve the electricity supply situation in Norway. I think that's a good starting point, not because this with force balance itself is a goal. But the fact that the energy nation of Norway will be in a normal year in a situation where we rely on perhaps as much as 10 TWh a year is no sustainable situation for our country. On the contrary, I believe that the energy nation of Norway should have been in a situation where we could export more electricity in a normal year. It is possible if there is political will to do so in Norway. When we now import in a normal year so much electricity as maybe 10 TWh – which equals a lot of Alta power plants, maybe 20 to 25 pieces – this year, we should analyze what kind of power we import. It's nuclear power from Russia, it's probably nuclear power from Finland gradually, when they get their new nuclear power plant up, and it's old coal power plants that supply energy from Denmark. It's not pure energy, to say it carefully. I have recently been on a visit to China, to which I was invited to give some environmental advice. There is a demanding energy and environmental situation in that country too. They have gone from being a net exporter of fossil fuels ten years ago to being now the world's second largest importer. What we see there is that there is a huge growth in the consumption of coal, and very poor coal, which then contributes to large greenhouse gas emissions. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has stated that by 2030 we will probably have an increase in energy demand in the world of 50 pst. It says something about what types of energy we're betting on in the future is absolutely crucial. In China, we have, among other things: in some provinces, much more has been spent on gas, and succeeded in replacing some old coal-fired power stations with gas, with the positive effect of halving the greenhouse gas emissions where it is done. When the new Minister of Energy goes out in an offensive way and says that he wants to ensure a policy of moving towards a force balance in Norway, I would say at least that in order to balance, we have to add 10 TWh in the first round, and preferably a little more. What I'm asking is how the government will implement a policy that will deliver it over the next four years. When you study the Soria Moria statement, you don't get any wiser in that way. That is why I think it is right to have an interpellant debate on this so early in the period, where the Minister of Energy is also given the opportunity to present what is going to happen in a concrete way. One of the initiatives taken in this way is the possibility of exploiting natural gas more offensively in Norway. In fact, during the four years that have passed, there has been a situation in which the three permits granted to the implementation of conventional gas power plants have not been used. This may be due, inter alia, to: the price of gas, which has been high, and the long-term electricity price have been such that companies Naturkraft and Industrikraft Mid-Norway are not so profitable in this respect. This summer we got a new development, namely that the force of nature finally decided to start an expansion on Kårstø. This means that we will then be able to provide a good deal of new electricity in Norway that will be able to replace, for example, the electricity produced by the electricity industry. imports from coal-fired power stations in Denmark and also nuclear power from some other countries. Then the new government in the Soria Moria declaration has said that it is okay to implement this on Kårstø, but then it has to be cleaned up. What has created confusion is that the signals about who is going to pay this are a little vague. If the government pays the price, there is no problem for the builder. Then there will be no extra charge for them. So far, the Minister of Oil and Energy has said that the Government will pay a substantial part of this. But I would like to stress that what is then said by the builders is that an extra charge for cleaning is not possible for them to pay, if they are to have profitability in the project. The same is true of Industrial Power Mid-Norway. What I think is absolutely crucial for us to get caught now, is what signal the oil and energy minister sends to the builders of gas power plants along our coast. Is it the case that they now have to wait with these projects because they don't know who will take the bill, or can he assure the Storting that, if you get an extra bill related to cleaning, which you don't get if you set up a gas power plant in Sweden, in Denmark or in Germany, that the Government wants to go in and take this bill? Actually, it should not be so difficult to go in and take this bill, because the Government of the Minister of Oil and Energy has also said that it is profitable to bet on. It will yield so good returns, and also increase the potential for exploitation, that this will be a project where you see a win-win situation. If the Minister of Oil and Energy is so convinced, it is likely that on behalf of the Government he can advance this. So it was said, not least from parts of the government parties – including from those present in this room today – that if one were to show the power of action in relation to being willing to take up this bill of cleaning, a real initiative had to be taken in connection with the 2006 state budget. I've got some numbers here attached to Kårstø. Only for Kårstø will it cost about 1.5 billion kroner to separate and compress CO2. In addition, transport, storage and landfill will be added if the Government’s vision of the use of CO2 as pressure aid is to be realised. In total, this will only cost Kårstø about NOK 4 billion. Then the oil and energy minister comes with 20 million. kr in the budget, which shall be the precondition for progress in these projects. It's interesting to know how much more money comes later. And is not the Minister of Oil and Energy concerned when he sees that the implementation of the gas power plants is necessary to achieve a balance of power, so that we can also have stable electricity prices in the years to come and can also have industrial development in Norway – when at the same time he is so unclear about who is going to pick up this bill? The answer from Industrikraft Mid-Norway, the answer from Natural Force and the answer from Statoil, relating to the Tent Credit, is that it is okay to deal with these cleaning requirements, but it must be clear from the authorities who will pick up this bill; if not, it can delay the projects. Therefore, a new uncertainty related to the necessary energy supply by the Government has emerged. But of course, the Minister of Energy has every opportunity today to establish that this is a bill that he picks up. These projects will then also be implemented. Otherwise, of course, conventional hydropower can give the network some capacity. The government has said no to the development of the tissue, which would have given around 2 TWh in new production. There is also uncertainty about this with small power plants, mini-power plants and micro-power plants. In the case of small-scale power plants, the government says that state-wide plans should be implemented. All of us who are aware of such detailed plans, for which the county council and possibly the county council are responsible, know that they can be involved in delaying implementation. I believe that this with small power plants is a unique opportunity for value creation locally, and also to increase the capacity of the network. I would like a little deepening from the oil and energy minister of how to look at these county plans, and an assurance that this does not lead to delays. Then we also have the question of whether small-scale power plants should be part of the green certificate market. If they don't become part of the green certificate market, I think we can see far after these projects are implemented. This is a unique opportunity for the Council of State to establish that we are to carry out green certificates, of course they must also include renewable energy, which these small power plants have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e442	Let me start by thanking the representative Burnde for addressing a very important topic, which we will probably have ample opportunity to debate in the next four years as well. There's no doubt that a modern society depends on us having a secure supply of energy. This applies both to industry, to other industries, to the public sector, and to households. Most of us today take it as a matter of course that we have sufficient energy when we need it. But the power situation in winter 2002/2003, which the representative Burnde was also in, gave us an important reminder of how dependent we are on annual hydropower generation, and how vulnerable we are to situations where the supply of electricity fails. We have very good assumptions for producing the energy that we need, and I agree with the representative Burnde that it will not be sustainable in the long term if we are to rely on being a net importer of electrical energy. It is therefore an objective of the Government to ensure an efficient, competitive and secure energy supply with sufficient energy supply. This can also contribute to Norway’s strong role in the Nordic and Northern European energy markets, as the representative also pointed out. A specific feature of Norwegian energy supply is the dominant role of electricity. We use electricity much more for heating than we do in other countries, and we have a very large power intensive industry compared to many of the countries around us. Of course, it is also a special feature that hydropower accounts for almost all electricity production. This dominant role of hydropower means that electricity production in Norway varies considerably more than in other countries. In a normal year, our production is estimated to be about 119 TWh. But it can vary as much as 90 and up to 150 TWh per year. This means that the voltage in power generation is equal to half of a normal year’s output. Both the high electricity consumption and the high hydropower dependency contribute to our vulnerability to power failure. It may seem paradoxical to discuss the Norwegian power balance right now; the magazine filling in this week is the highest we've had since 1983. Until 2005, power generation has been at 117 TWh. The claims to the Norwegian power stations have this year been 22 TWh above normal, and we have exported 10 TWh. This shows the enormous variation that we have in Norwegian power supply. But it is still going to be a dry year for Norwegian power supplies in the years to come, and with a tight balance of power there is a risk that lack of power will become more frequent than it has done in a surplus situation. As the representative Brande had in mind, we have a significant import in a normal river basin year. It lies between 5 and 7 TWh, not 10 TWh, in the current situation. But the situation is also that in previous years we have had a steady slow growth in production capacity compared to the growth in consumption. However, in recent years we have been able to see a slightly greater interest in investment in new capacity, and there is a request for a concession for the development of several types of power generation. It's obviously too early to say how many of these are going to be realized. We still have to count on a growth in electricity consumption in the years ahead. This includes, among other things: the context in which we have a growth in income and consumption, which will contribute to increased growth in electricity consumption. The supply of power from the grid to land-based activities in the petroleum sector may increase significantly, and we also need to expect a transition from the use of oil to other energy sources. It's positive, but it can also partially turn out in terms of increased demand for electricity. As also pointed out in the 2006 budget proposal, the forecasts of electricity consumption recently prepared by the Central Bureau of Statistics for the Ministry of Oil and Energy show that we can count on a growth in net consumption of general supply between 20 and 40 TWh by 2030. This shows the challenges we face in terms of meeting the growth of electric energy demand. In this way, it is very positive the commitment that Børge Burnde shows to address this important topic of debate today. But I have to admit that I am surprised that Børge Burnde so much makes this debate a discussion about who is going to pick up the bill for cleaning up the gas power plant at Kårstø. I've seen Børge Burne as one of the most environmentally interested politicians we have in this room, and definitely one of the most environmentally interested politicians in the Right Party. The project that the Government has now undertaken to implement in relation to the cleaning of the gas power plant at Kårstø is, in my view, one of the most important environmental policy measures we as a nation can do in the years to come. In the oil industry, we have done a lot in terms of reducing emissions, both to air and to water. But greenhouse gas emissions are going to represent the big challenge in the years to come, and I had in many ways expected that we could have an overall commitment to this hall in relation to the importance it has to realize just the challenge of clearing CO2, not least from gas power plants. Gas power could be an important addition to the increase in energy demand that we are now seeing. But it has to be done in an environmentally sustainable way, where the realization of clean-up will be an important element in this way. So, of course, there'll be a discussion about who's going to bear the costs of the different elements here. So the government's ambition is to establish a value chain, where we can use CO2 to increase the production of Norwegian capital, which in turn will give the state the majority of the revenue that we can get in the form of such an increased extraction. It's a big project, it's a demanding project, and it's a project that I have great expectations for, and we're also going to have ample opportunity to come back to in the years that come. The government has ambitions to contribute both to increased energy supply and to reduce energy consumption. The last point is important; we must not forget that we must not stare blindly at the increase we see in the need for energy in the years to come. We also need to look at and put into practice the possibilities of saving energy and of using energy as efficiently as possible. One of the areas in which the Government will enter, on which it becomes important to focus, is the transition from electric heating to much greater use of water-borne heating. Not least, bioenergy could play an important role here. If we look at our neighboring country, for example. to Sweden, there is a much larger production of bioenergy than we have in Norway. It shows that it is possible to make it commercially reasonable, and it is possible to achieve this in terms of both creating jobs and diversifying energy consumption that makes us less dependent on hydropower than we are today, and thus also less vulnerable to low-water years. The transition to waterborne heat will also open up the use of gas in another way in the energy supply than simply converting it into electric energy. The third point, which is also outlined in the Soria Moria Declaration, is an evaluation of the Energy Act, which has several purposes. One of the purposes is to look at the possibilities to find incentives that ensure that we have sufficient electrical energy supply. The Energy Act has worked well in a surplus situation of electricity. It has not been shown to be equally successful in dealing with a deficit situation. The price level will be a driving force in relation to the supply of new capacity. There are few other incentives in the Energy Act. It is too early to say which direction this will take, but it is a work that is already under way in relation to what theme should be subject to the evaluation of the Energy Act. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is a great job and a great responsibility to ensure that we have sufficient energy supply in relation to being self-sufficient in a normal rainfall situation. There are significant plans within wind, which show an increased interest in expanding wind power. There is growing interest in bioenergy and waterborne heat. There is growing interest in small power and in upgrading existing power plants. There is a great deal of interest in building mini and micro power plants. The government has started work on green certificates, which will be presented to the Stortinget once during the first six months of 2006. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss the device on this, because it will be in place before 1 January 2007. So we have a set of instruments that tell us that we're going to be self-sufficient in electricity, and there's much more offensive action being taken by this government than what's been taken by previous governments. For the situation we are today, is a result of failure sins over very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e476	First, I would like to stress that I think it is positive that the Minister of Oil and Energy is firmly committed to what he has said to the newspapers, that getting into a force balance in a normal year is something that the Government will actively work with in the next four years. That's good. Because we're very vulnerable when maybe as much as 97 pst. our electricity comes from hydropower, and you can't bet that it rains the same amount every year. We have also seen that it can be quite serious for Norway when it does not. So it was the answers, or the lack of answers, to the concrete questions that I raised. There are many fine words in these answers, but very little concrete answers. Today, we are environmental in a situation where Norway imports coal power, i.e. electricity based on coal power, from Denmark, and also nuclear power from Russia. It's completely unacceptable to the environment. Then we have the opportunity to introduce new electricity in Norway through gas power plants. There is a great opportunity — so that the gas is not just sent out of the country but can be fed to the Norwegian network. That will be very good for the environment. But I take it inward that the government now also wants to implement a project where these gas power plants are to be cleaned. Of course, it's even better from an environmental point of view. But what is then the leaping point is that these gas power plants – which we are totally dependent on to achieve the goal of a better balance of power and to stop importing coal power – are dependent on the government not torpedoing these plans for those who want to expand through its additional requirements. That is why I asked how much the Government will take on, and whether the Minister of Energy will assure us that that proportion will be so large that it will not lead to delays and that it will not be implemented. That's what my questions were. I cannot understand that the Minister for Oil and Energy was close to touching those questions or giving any answers in his speech. I just want to remind you of what natural force says: ‘We cannot spend money on this, and at the same time have profitability. We operate in a European gas and power market where our competitors in Germany and the Netherlands have free allowances. If we do not have the same framework conditions as our competitors, Norwegian industry will be outsourced." They will have assurances from the Minister of Oil and Energy that the additional requirements that are now coming, which are environmentally good, will be paid by some. Otherwise, the project will not be completed. If you can't implement these gas power plants, you can bet on wind, and you can bet on bioenergy. But you know that when in addition you need 20-30 TWh in the next few years, even if you're running energy saving, as the Minister of Oil and Energy has pointed out, there's a difference here that needs to be covered up in a credible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e492	It is quite right, as the representative Burnde says, that today, in a normal fallow year, we are dependent on imports of coal power, nuclear power, etc. It is environmentally unacceptable. But the reason we are there today is not the lack of concrete answers from this government. This is due, among other things, to failure to do so. the previous government over four years by not ensuring that we are in a different situation. And Børge Brende has actually been the Minister of Environmental Protection in the previous government for half the time the government set, and has had every opportunity to make sure that we weren't going to get into an unacceptable environmental situation. This just shows how difficult these things are, and what arduous tasks we've undertaken. That Børge Brende then is indignant that no concrete answer is given one month after the government has joined, I think I am in the opposite direction. But some concrete answers should nevertheless be given. The gas power plant at Kårstø is now being built. It is now under way under this government, despite the fact that the builders knew that this government will contribute to the CO2 management of this power plant. We have also said that we want to contribute to CO2 management at other gas power plants that are being built. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government’s policy in the field of gas power is based on the fact that given concessions are on the ground and that the production of gas power is to be ‘included in the international quota system which ensures that the total emissions do not increase’. This is completely in line with what the previous government stood for, and that Børge Brende was part of. I understand that the representative Burnde will have an answer to who will pay the bill, and how much of the bill the different parties here will pay. As I have said, the state will have very good profitability in this case if it is possible to use CO2 for increased oil extraction on a Norwegian base. It is therefore reasonable for the State to take a significant share of this. But here it could be both the sellers and the buyers of CO2 that our ambition is to get into a positive value chain in a way that makes sense. I would also like to remind you that on a Norwegian base, we have imposed the most stringent environmental requirements on the world, in the same way that this government intends to impose the world's most stringent environmental requirements for the use of fossil fuels at gas power plants. I think we should all agree that that is positive. There has been resistance from the oil industry throughout the year to the stringent environmental requirements imposed by the authorities. But despite this, despite our strict requirements, we have had a fantastic development on Norwegian soil, where today we are the world's most important environmental concerns in the production of petroleum. The right has been opposed to many of these requirements. However, despite the introduction of these requirements, Norwegian pedestal is currently very profitable. There is still a great deal of interest in participating in work on extraction on a Norwegian base. Also in the case of the 19th concession round in the Barents Sea, where we have demanded zero emissions, the strictest requirement ever made is the interest in participating. This shows that companies take the environment seriously. All of them in this room should do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e521	The representative Burnde points to an incredibly important relationship. It is not satisfactory that Norway has a deficit in power. But contrary to what Burne just said, the balance of power must be a goal, at my discretion, not least in terms of the environment, value creation, employment and future growth. That the representative Burnde now shows his concern for the power balance one month after he himself put in government, I choose to interpret positively, as that Right now will contribute to solving the important task that it is to improve the power balance. It is particularly between 2001 and 2004 that the distance between production and consumption has decreased and became extremely critical. From 1990 to 1994, we exported 35 TWh, from 1995 to 2000, we exported more than 10 TWh, while in the period 2001–2004, i.e. in the previous growing period, where Burne was part of the government college, we imported a total of 19 TWh – this is the worst power balance in a four-year period ever. This situation also has an environmentally important perspective. Thus, from 1995 to 2000, we exported more than 10 TWh environmentally friendly forces, replacing precisely coal and nuclear power, while in the period 2001–04 we imported it twice with force, based on the same negative energy sources. We recognise that the challenge is great and that it requires considerable effort. We recognize that the hydropower, which stands for the entire 99 pst. of our electricity production, is vulnerable. But in a strong contrast to Burnde, I believe that the very government platform in the energy field is the most positive one that has been presented for many years. I would also like to add that an active energy policy merges with a new, forward-looking and highly active environmental policy. I may be naive, but I actually think that the Right will also approve the government platform in this area, although I realize that the Right needs some time in these days to show enthusiasm. An important step in the right direction is to clarify important and important issues. This is exactly where the main problem has been: there has been no consensus in this room. Now it's a majority, an important majority. The main contribution to a better power balance is the use of natural gas, which many have been involved in. If we are to succeed in using the huge amounts of energy that natural gas represents, it is absolutely essential to address the environmental challenges. In the last four years, the market and market alone had to solve the CO2 problems related to gas power plants. We have always seen that the market was not the answer alone, and in response to the market's inability, 20 million have now been added. kr for starting up time-critical work on CO2 management and a value chain for CO2. We've said that we're going to contribute to a value chain for CO2. Here there are opportunities, not just constraints, because there are actually many great opportunities for significant incomes in some time. We will also streamline and optimise existing hydropower plants, which will make a valuable contribution. To achieve this, we most likely need to change the law and establish motivation for new investments. In addition, we have a number of opportunities with new renewable energy sources, such as wind, bioenergy, wave power, etc., opportunities that we want to exploit together with a strong focus on reducing the growth of power consumption. Finally, I can assure the representative Burne that the new government and the new growth majority are focusing on and have clear goals to improve the power balance with efforts in several areas. We've started, and we'll continue with this work. Now I also hope that the Right again will participate in an active and constructive way to improve an area as important as the force balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e559	Of course, this interpellation is important, but I would like to begin by saying that in previous years the bulk of the population has been better off following some of the power policy proposals that the Progress Party has promoted on several occasions, perhaps the interpellation we are dealing with here today has been superfluous. In the beginning I would also like to say that it is strange that it is the Right that promotes this interpellation. For four years in government, the right has had a good chance to pursue a better power policy, but they have not. Rather, the representative Brende has been more concerned with ensuring protection and watercourse protection. So it's a significant fact that I'm recording and finding that Norway has been in the very paradoxical energy situation that even in normal years for electric production, the country is dependent on imports of electricity. It represents a totally unsustainable energy supply situation that requires a much more active and powerful Norwegian energy policy from now on and forward. I just want to remind the story that Norway is a nation with enormous energy resources. This applies both in a European and global context. We are the world's third largest exporter of gas, the world's third largest exporter of oil, we are the seventh largest producer in the world of oil and gas, and we are also the sixth largest producer in the world of hydropower. It says something about the energy nation Norway and Norway as an energy nation. In spite of these facts, the country is not able, even in normal years, to supply the country's 4.6 million builders with sufficient electricity. We have made ourselves dependent on imports of electricity from energy-intensively less equipped nations, such as Denmark and Sweden. I think that is remarkable, and it is paradoxical. This year, as the Council of State also pointed out, the magazine filling is good, the power balance is currently good thanks to an exceptionally good rainfall situation. That's not how we can expect it to be in the years to come. And that's disturbing. Governments mentioned some figures. He said that we can get down to 90 TWh in terms of production capacity in a dry year -- that's a number that is confirmed by the NVE -- and maybe we can produce 140 to 145 TWh in a rainy year. When we look at it in the light of the import capacity we have – perhaps 15 TWh – primarily from Sweden and Denmark, it suggests that in a dry year the country will face a dramatic situation in terms of security of supply and balance of power. We'll be able to see a deficit of maybe up to 20 TWh, and that will create a dramatic situation for the country. So what's the solution? The Progress Party has now for a number of years pointed out that we have plenty of gas resources. They need to be exploited better in Norway. We haven't done that yet. The interpellant said that Kårstø is being built, that's right. Kårstø shall be completed in September 2007 and deliver 3.5 TWh. It's an important contribution to the energy supply, and it equals something like five Alta power plants, to put it in perspective. But it is the case that four gas plants have been applied for in this country, and three additional power plants are also for treatment, and a concession application has been notified in the case of Grenland. The notified and the concessional gas power projects in Norway represent a total potential of 30–32 TWh. Compared to the country's average production capacity of 119 TWh, it means 27 pst. increase in capacity, i.e. 152 TWh if all of these eight projects can be realised. And that's where the problem is. Political reluctance to focus on all the problems of CO2 clean-up, taxes, etc. is a major problem in developing increased capacity and security of supply in Norway. There has been an ongoing problem throughout the last period. It is also said that the time for large hydropower expansions is over. But it's a great potential. NVE showed that there was 205 TWh technically and economically exploitable potential. 119 TWh is used. For example: small-scale power plants, there is a potential of approximately Twenty-five TWh. Here the Council of State will soon have to clarify what he will do with it in relation to green energy, in relation to electricity certificates and such things. There's a lot left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e579	I think that both the interpellant and the Council of State have been shown in a clear way how closely the concepts of ‘vulnerability’ and ‘safe energy-supplied’ are linked. But I also find myself marked – in the context of the concept of ‘vulnerability’ – a certain wound that the theme is supposedly allowed to travel as a future issue here in the hall. I am not sure that, politically from the opposition, at least not from the Right, we intend to take some notable consideration of that. Based on what the Council of State showed as to how the growth of consumption is going to develop in the future, including in Norway, we need to have a daily focus on how to strike a balance for the future. It's not just the fact that we know from relatively safe estimates that the world's demand for energy is going to increase by 60 pst. By 2030, however, the Council of State has today said that developments in Norway are heading towards an increase in consumption of 20–40 TWh. And then we have to have a lead was the attitude to these issues, to this challenge. If not, it goes wrong, and when I say the word ‘bad’, it’s because we get into a situation where we’ll be even more dependent on imports than is the case today. We cannot stand in this situation in the future, even though we have been relatively fortunate this year with rain, which we, as the Council of State said, must return to 1983 in order to have seen the husband. At least we cannot, on the part of the Storting, budget politically, given that it will be so for the future. At least let's hope it doesn't, for other reasons. What several others have been faced with is that it is a paradox that we, the energy power of Europe, have put ourselves in the situation we have done from the Norwegian side. Of course, it's bloody unfair, as they say themselves, to expect the results and choices of the new government to be put on the table after five weeks. No one's ever asked for it either. No one has suggested it in the debate so far, nor the inter-pellant. It must be allowed, when you read the Soria Moria statement, to point out that the choices you set in the most vital areas, in fact, are not just two steps, but more steps back. Uncertainty is created around those who could stand for a heavy and solid solution, namely the initiators of the new gas power plant solutions. As for the signals from the new government that we're going to push billions of dollars at them, we know that two of the three who have a concession have already decided that they're not going to do anything yet, for economic reasons. We know that the first or third has made a decision. Clearly, with the signals given, the interest in developing new energy gas power solutions and the exposure to CO2 handling will be reduced, and less attention will be paid. We've also seen that the involvement around the terms of small-scale power plants has not led to them getting better, they're on the contrary getting worse. The previous government took the Wefsna out of the Total Plan. The new government has taken it back in. Then it's that we have to be able to do, without the wound taking a lot of control, to ask, where have they done the toolbox in this case? Where did they do the tools that were supposed to fill the toolbox? It is not possible to turn the broad side against the former Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs, who praised how we are going to prepare ourselves nationally to be equipped to meet the Kyoto challenges once they come. That is why it is time for us to have a different type of debate from the political majority: how are we going to achieve a balance by 2030, in order to take it in a longer-term perspective? How are we going to achieve our goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e599	Let me thank the interpellant for giving us this opportunity to discuss a matter that is exciting, important and absolutely necessary. Let me also thank the Council of State for an article that shows that we have got a new offensive in energy policy, an offensive that enables us to melt environmental and energy concerns together. Discussing the power balance is always interesting. Discussing the power balance with representatives of the Right is particularly interesting. This force balance has a parallel to what we often discuss, namely the budgetary balance. When discussing the budgetary balance sheet, we are concerned that revenue must rise and expenditure must be kept down. When discussing the balance of forces, this government has based the same principle, that we need to get up the environmentally friendly energy sources, and then we also need to have a strong focus on being able to limit consumption. When discussing with the Right People, it seems that this perfectly obvious logic from the discussion on the budgetary balance is totally absent from the discussion on the energy balance. In this way, I am not particularly surprised that a right-wing politician keeps an article of 10 minutes about the power balance without the consumption side being mentioned in one single word. What's a little bit more surprising is that an environmental politician of Burnde's format can do the same. Many of the key challenges outlined in the Soria Moria Declaration are about the consumption side. Not least, it is about developing a heat market, as the Council of State said quite correctly. What distinguishes Norway from all surrounding countries is that we use a high proportion of the electricity for heating. It's wasting with high-quality energy. We have to get more left in the form of heat for heating. Some people think that these are the little things that the ladies in the energy debate get to keep a little post about at the end. It's not! In the Nordic energy market, bioenergy is greater than hydropower. Sweden has over 100 TWh bioenergy, Denmark has 18 TWh, and we have 16 TWh. It's not because there's more forest in Denmark than in Norway, but it's because they've used resources we haven't been able to use, and have managed to have an offensive energy policy where we haven't been able to have it. We have great opportunities for wind as well. This government inherits a situation where it is more profitable to set up a windmill on a Swedish farm than to set it up on the Norwegian coast, where we have large wind resources. We've said that we're going to do something about it. We're going to make progress in wind power development, and there's a lot of exciting, good plans coming along. Then we're going to bring people, because the choices people make in their own household are important. We also want to be with them and stimulate them. Therefore, the Soria Moria Declaration states that we should introduce a long-term household grant scheme, to those who choose to change, so that one does not become unilaterally dependent on electricity for heating, but installs waterborne heat, heat pumps, pellet stoves, solar heating or have other good suggestions. This is also very important. So this government has set itself the goal of having a large moon landing project, and it is that we will be able to realize the construction of CO2-free gas power plants and a value chain for CO2. That's brave, we admit it, but we're going to get it done. There has been some international scepticism as to whether CO2 clean-up and CO2 deposition are a good climate action. I am therefore happy to record that much of that scepticism is now internationally gone. In September, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a report proving the opportunities that are available internationally if we develop that technology and get it up and up. It also clearly says that if we are to be able to bring down the climate emissions, we are totally dependent on having this technology in place. It was particularly gratifying then to note that the Director of UNEP, Klaus Töpper, has said that this is important, and that together with energy efficiency improvement and with new renewable energy sources, CO2 deposition is what we need if we are to cope with climate challenges. What surprises me the most in this debate is not that we have a broad majority who say yes, but that there is no more cheer from the Right that we are saying that we are going to get CO2 cleaning at the gas power plants. It amazes me. Because I believe that what this government is doing here is also based on the initiatives taken by the previous one. They've just been reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e640	Norway is a major consumer of energy, and among other things due to the widespread use of electricity for heating, we have a particularly high consumption of electricity. We need to reduce our electricity consumption and convert energy supply into new renewable energy sources. Our electricity consumption is higher than the hydropower we produce this year with normal or low rainfall. The Christian People's Party believes that it is therefore important to look at schemes that can help reduce the inefficient use of electricity. It is a general policy objective with a switch from electricity to heat, i.e. reducing the electricity consumption by 3 TWh. It is also a further objective to increase wind power to 3 TWh and also to increase the use of waterborne heat based on renewable energy sources to 4 TWh. The aim for all of us should be to minimise consumption at the lowest possible price, so that emissions and waste such as environmental challenges are minimised. The energy supply must be safe and must be provided in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner. In the previous period, the Bondevik II Government presented a Communication on security of supply and a 10-point list of measures to reduce vulnerability. This can still be taken into account. The aim here was just to increase energy production based on new renewable energy sources, reduce the use of electricity for heating and increase flexibility in terms of the energy source we use for heating. In particular, we need to invest in renewable energy sources through Enova as an important element in getting more power into the market. Norway is a country rich in energy resources. We have the potential for generation of wind power, we have good conditions for wave power and opportunities related to tidal, saline and solar power. We also have access to large amounts of bioenergy, mainly in terms of growth in our forests. The use of waterborne heat needs to be increased. A maximum part of new buildings, and the building being renovated, must be prepared for this. Waterborne heat provides flexibility in the choice of energy form. It can be combined with district heating, heat pumps, electric boilers, oil firing or bio-fuels. Hydropower is an important renewable energy source. Our hydropower resources and power generation represent large values built up through generations that must be well managed in view of future generations. The Christian People's Party wants to expand small power plants. We will intensify efforts to re-establish the use of old and abandoned small-scale power plants. It also facilitates an easier procedure in this field. It's important that this is followed up. Petroleum production on Norwegian soil is expected to decrease slightly in the coming years. This is not least a challenge for the supplier industry. It is therefore important to use the resources on the base. Today, about 50 psts are taken. by petroleum resources up in the open fields. Efforts to increase the extraction rate must continue. The production of tails must be exploited to obtain the less profitable resources in the boreholes. This will require the oil industry to continue to develop new technologies that can meet new demands for higher environmental standards. The Christian People's Party believes that oil extraction should not take place in vulnerable natural areas where environmental considerations suggest that oil extraction is irresponsible. Petroleum-free zones should therefore be established. Investment in the development of gas power plants with CO2 cleaning and the development of thermal infrastructure is important to make us less dependent on the hydropower as an energy source. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that all the parties in the government of Stoltenberg have now realised that we need CO2 cleaning. The State must contribute co-financing in order to build a large-scale pilot plant with CO2 management. It is also important for the State to provide incentives for an overall value chain for CO2 management. The creation of Gassnova and Gassco is important here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e674	I would like to say that it is good that we put this very important topic on the agenda. What kind of solutions we choose here will be absolutely crucial for the future in industry, in technology development, in the environment and in many other industries in Norway. I am therefore very pleased that the Soria Moria declaration is as offensive as it is in relation to the energy issue in Norway. So I want to say that it has been difficult to avoid noticing Right and Børge Brende's new commitment to the power balance in Norway, not only in this room, but also in newspapers around the country. For someone who has ambitions to become the world's Environment Minister – a position I want him to be happy with if he is to get it – the Right answer to this important question, and the fasit after four years in government, must be a paradox. In the opinion of the Centre Party, solving the world's and the nation's energy challenges in a sustainable way is the most important thing we can do for the environment. Mr. Brende himself has repeatedly underlined the seriousness of man-made climate change. When the Right and Børge Brende's answer to the challenges here in Norway is exclusively to build gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, this, in my opinion, represents a double communication that is scarcely vain to have. It is therefore exciting to ask Mr. Børge Burnde in particular today about how we in Norway can expect the rest of the world to follow up Kyoto and possibly more ambitious climate requirements, when we are going to solve our energy needs by breaking already concluded agreements. Equally exciting is to ask Mr. Børge Burnde what he has done as Minister for the Environment and Industry to solve these important challenges. With regard to energy as everything else, the Right believes that it is the market that will solve all the challenges. If there is one experience we can draw after 15 years with a deregulated market, it is that the production side has not been sufficiently stimulated. We have gone from a large overproduction to a smooth undercover. The situation is getting worse. That is why I am very pleased that the Government is now notifying a revision of the Energy Act. When it comes to concrete action, the previous government has very little to point to. In areas like bioenergy, gas, environmentally friendly gas and waterborne heat development, it's done very little. This is what the government is about to clean up. We're going to do all that the previous government should have done. Unfortunately, we have now lost valuable time. We're going to build gas power plants that both provide the necessary power, that are clean, that add value to the base and that contribute to a technological development that the world needs. We're going to create a green certificate market that will give us more wind and water power. We need to intensify the work on energy saving. We're going to put in place a system that will give us an offensive investment in bioenergy and water-borne systems. There are enormous opportunities in all of these areas. We just have to be willing to use society to push this forward. We have to admit that the market mechanisms alone are not enough to solve this. We have an example in the field of bioenergy. Here Sweden produces 110 TWh. In Norway, we produce 15 or 16 TWh. How many jobs would this have given in Norway? How much technology development? How much of the cultural landscape could have been recovered? What would be the environmental benefits if we had developed this potential? What's done? Nothing, except that the electricity charging system and the landfill charge have been messed up in such a way that developments in the district heating industry in Norway are about to stop completely. Here we're going to clean up. We're going to start with the massive expansion of new infrastructure. I have great expectations of the results. Finally, I would like to say that there are three ways of correcting the force balance: you can reduce consumption. You can increase the production, and you can do both. We're going in for both of them. Right and Børge Burnde says you're going to get up production. In fact, however, it is believed that the Norwegian industry should be phased out and thus strike a balance in the market. Why do I mean that? It's done little to release electricity. We have deficits that drive prices up, and we're connecting to a European power market where prices are higher than in Norway. That is why I am also extremely pleased that we have said that we should set up an industrial power regime that will take care of the powerful industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e692	Adequate access to energy is very important, both for most people in everyday life, not least for the creation of value in society and for jobs. Now that we also know that many forms of energy production cause environmental problems, it is clear that we have major challenges ahead of us. We also know that the time for the large hydropower expansions is over. Then we have to look around for what we can fill this space with for further value creation. I think that's the way the government sketches, that we need to review the 1992 Energy Act. A few years have passed, and we see that the situation we're now in, which we've noticed over time, cannot solve the market forces alone. We as governing authorities need to have a word in the team and a hand on the wheel, so that we can make it work in a proper and good way. I am also, like others, happy and happy that Børge Brende has put this on the map and that we are now debating it. I think we're going to have a debate on this in the next four years. But I have to say that when the Right in today's debate, among other things, use words like – quote from the post to Børge Burnde: – ‘It’s possible if it’s political will’, and the representative Ivar Kristiansen says ‘more steps back’ and asks for tools in the toolbox, I am surprised. The government has been in place for approx. five weeks. Soria Moria's government statement is in place. Then these two, which I referred to, have had government power for four years – for four years! Over the course of these four years, the opposition raised these questions over and over again, but now all of a sudden they say it's acute. So you want tools in the toolbox, but I'm surprised that you don't see the whole thing, both on the environmental side, on the consumption side, and in relation to jobs and industrial development. I think projects in energy and the environment are the absolutely most important thing for the current government over the next four years. Now that we're getting what's going to happen to gas stations, how they're going to produce in the future, and what commitments we're making is, of course, just action. There are tools, and it shows the way forward. Where was the government when they talked about domestic use of natural force? The Soria Moria Declaration and the Government Declaration clearly state that the authorities must have a word in this matter. If necessary, we need to set up a company together with private companies to increase domestic use of gas. The party of progress is on it. A wide range of Norwegian policies are involved in such things. We have said LNG facilities, etc. Here we point out a direction that is important for the energy nation of Norway in the future. This is a tool. I have also noticed what the previous Minister of Energy said about the cleaning of CO2 gas power plants and the construction of gas power plants, and not least about the value chain. Yes, what was the answer from the right at that time? If it's so profitable, just let the private get started! I think that's a serious simplification and a back loan from the authorities, which doesn't work. Here we create values. We are looking at the value chain, while at the same time taking care of climate policy and the future of our future generations. Then the answer was, we're leaning back, and we're not doing anything about it! I think here we now have the opportunity to do something. The government has put down what tools we have, and which way we're going to go. I am also pleased that there is a great deal of excitement in the public sphere about these directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e711	It's very brave of Børge Burnde to address this debate. He himself has been in power for four years, and the problem has not been solved. In addition, the right has voted against the Forces of the Progress Party for all four years. But the debate is important. Last night, a reader could read in the Romesdals Budstikke: «Danger for collapse», «Power crisis requires action». But when we look at what has been said by the Government so far, there is largely uncertainty that has been created. It has not been created so much of the power of action that some representatives express. Let's do the two most important things in balancing: Small force. There, in fact, the parliamentary leader of the Senterpartiet, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, has said to her locality, as she hopes to be read only by herself: ‘The Soria Moria declaration is right to be self-contradictory at this point.’ So it's about the government's small-power policy. At the Statnett Harvest Conference on 1 November, the head of Statnett said, "Without gas power it becomes dark!" He fears a power crisis in More and Romesdal by 2010. In response, we would like to read Europower November 2005. It says that the oil and energy minister says to the Sunnmørspost that a gas power plant in More and Romesdal is well ahead of us, and that such a work is hardly the solution to the energy situation in the county. I trust Statnet more in this context. So CO2 management has been a little discussed. There, government parties are clearly discussing in the media. On the one hand, the representative Tore Nordtun says: ‘The government must take, if necessary, all the costs associated with the construction of a CO2 management plant from the new gas power plant at Kårstø.’ That's what he said to the Newspaper bureau. But in the Newspaper we can see that the Minister for Oil and Energy says: ‘Member States may not take the entire bill. Actors must bite into the acidic apple and realize that they must take an active part in their work in order to use CO2 in an environmentally sound way.’» Who is going to pay for this? What is the Small Power Policy of the Government? There is a need for some clarifications in addition to round formulations that are only suitable for covering internal conflicts in policy. Now that Tore Nordtun is going to agree with Heidi Sørensen and Hallgeir Langeland, everyone knows it's a difficult task, and I don't think they can solve it in four years. One of them will stand outside and demonstrate when the Government finally adopts its energy policy. I recognize that it takes time to solve the problem, but I expect the government to put out a clear course, so that we remove uncertainty. The Progress Party will therefore contribute to a clearer direction for the Government by proposing, in the budgetary position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, that the Government present a report on the state of energy of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state every two years, in the same way as the State of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the environment. The government must then take into account both time dimensions and volume. That is, of course, the problem throughout this debate, that we should take action on the island, district heating, windmills, solar cells, hydropower and gas power. There's been a discussion in this room for 20 years. I am new here, sitting and reading in old settings and finding out that this is nothing new. This is just repeating things that have been said. The problem is that we can't take any action that actually has volume left over and that will solve the problem. It doesn't help to sit and compare with Sweden and Denmark, because it's a historical condition for why things are the way they are. If we are to look to Sweden and Denmark, we must also see that they actually have nuclear power plants and that they have coal power plants. Is it also a current solution, or is it only the small things in Norway that cost a tremendous amount of money, which we are going to use as an alternative? I am not willing to risk the competitiveness of Norwegian industry because the other parties want strange taxes and strange regulation to achieve symbolic environmental effects. It is not a pleasure either for Norwegian industry or for the environment globally. I'm going to make a lot of suggestions that the government can include in the message about the state of energy of the kingdom, which I suppose the other parties will support. You may suggest tax incentives for upgrading hydropower. The potential is enormous. Investment in small-scale power plants. Avoid getting a lot of Soria Moria power plants around Norwegian streams, as you've already begun to see trends, according to the Nation. Prepare the contents of green certificates. Do you want some small power? Would you like some heat? This was very clear to you in the opposition, but we see a lot of immortality in the position. And not least gas power: much can be done, if we actually want gas power plants. Avoid e.g. Norwegian technology requirements. Avoid strange technology requirements. We see that they build in Germany, we see that they build in Qatar. But the risk of building in Norway is so great that nobody wanted it. Take away this risk, make it clear that the government wants the only cost that builds up of gas power plants to actually have is the cost that CO2 allowances would cost. The State shall take all other costs. If you do, and say that it's the rules to exist, to get new concessions, I'll bet that in a short time you get a concession application -- real applications from Grenland, from the Tjeldbergodden, from Risavik and from Mongstad. And then you can develop CO2 solutions parallel to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e763	The President has a certain understanding that when the representative becomes eager, he forgets to address the President. It should be remembered for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e766	This interpellation took place after reading an interview with the oil and energy minister where he said the government would work to achieve a balance of power in Norway. What I've been busy about is getting concrete action on the table for which the government will go in, to achieve this. I think this has not only been a useful debate for the Government, but it has also been an important debate for Norway. We need a visionary and fundamental debate on how we will in the future be free to operate and import highly polluting coal power from Denmark and nuclear power from Russia and possibly Finland. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should manage to create a force balance, and it is clear that Norway can do that if we want to. So it seems that someone thinks it's a little bad that I'm squeaking away that it's not so concrete, this follow-up, and they say you also have to look at what the previous government did or didn't do. First, I have to say that I think the government is actually well served that we are now starting to take a closer look at this, because it will also create a stronger force in the political environment compared to implementing the necessary measures to achieve this balance of power. And then it'll be a little bit of a relief when you almost indicate that this power imbalance has occurred in the last four years. This is something we've been going with us for at least 10–15 years in Norway, so there's probably more governments that've been in here. With regard to the measures taken by the previous government, more hydropower — renewable hydropower — was developed in the last four years than it was throughout the 90s. We also carried out the establishment of Enova, which came into place under the previous government, and we established Gassco. I'm now more concerned about looking forward: how are we going to get to such a force balance? What has changed with this government is that, in addition to opening up conventional gas power stations, it is said that they must be subject to a cleaning requirement. However, in order to realize these, they must be clearly informed that the extra bill must be taken by the State once this has been decided. Otherwise I am afraid that they will not be realised, and I would like to challenge the Minister for Oil and Energy: Can he make sure that these gas power stations are coming, and that he will then send out clear signals that it is not economics it is on? So say, among other things. The representative, Mr Moe, said that it was done very little, and that now this government is going to clean up. I think that's fine, I think that's very good. And then it's going to be focused on bioenergy. When will the concrete measures to stimulate more bioenergy come? It's interesting to get the Minister of Oil and Energy to answer. When does this waterborne heat come? What are the additional measures to be implemented there? In the case of wind power, the representative, Sørensen, refers to the fact that it is more expensive to implement this in this country than in Sweden. When will the concrete measures be put in place by the Minister of Oil and Energy to give incentives in Norway similar in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e781	We will now receive an answer from the Council of State, Mr Enoxen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e784	Let me start again by thanking you for this important theme being taken up by Børge Burnde. I agree that the Government is well served to have a debate on this, and it is a debate that I think we should have ample opportunity to come back to. I'm also going to give the representative Burne the right that this is not a situation that has occurred in the last four years. I remember my first period at Stortinget, as a member of the Energy and Environment Committee. In March 1995, Minister of Economic Affairs and Energy Jens Stoltenberg gave an energy policy statement to the Stortinget stating that we had to expect to be a net importer of electrical energy around the turn of the millennium. So this we have in a while. We have had very few tools to increase capacity, and we have done too little to reduce consumption. As I said, it is the result of many years of neglect that this government has now undertaken the task of cleaning up. In fact, I think the most eye-catching thing about today's debate is to see the complete division that we can already record between parties that until recently have been in government with each other. I would like to thank the representative, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, for a very constructive and constructive contribution to showing the challenges we are facing. It was a post that I felt was completely in line with the policy of this government. I sat for a while with a feeling that the Right had intended to seek refuge at the Progress Party on energy and environmental policy issues, but after hearing the representative Solvik-Olsen, who is calling for both the expansion of nuclear power and coal power – I am stretching it a little far now, he does not do so, but he indicated that nuclear power and coal power are also an opportunity, I am going to reunite myself to go so far – and after hearing Torbjørn Andersen, who says that we have a hydropower potential of 205 TWh, there is, after all, a certain distance between the Right and the Advance Party. I'm glad. The debate on energy policy and environmental policy promises that the Right is still on the reasonable track half here. Mr. Burnde again called for the measures to be taken by the Government to increase the production of wind power in relation to the use of bioenergy and waterborne heat. We will return to this in turn and in order, both in future budgets and through the work already started by the Government. It's a big task, and I think with respect to reporting that Børge Burnde does not expect to get accurate and concrete answers to that in this debate today. It is positive that we have put this on the agenda in the way that Børge Brende is doing today, and I look forward to having many energy policy debates in this Chamber in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e795	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-25.ana.ud2519e806	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
