ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e56	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e65	Norwegian society is constantly changing. In fact, changes are taking place faster and faster, and Norwegian legislation also needs to adapt to the new reality. One of the objectives of the proposition is to ensure legal certainty for individuals in society. In particular, it is worth noting that the proposal implies a certain embellishment of the strict rules that currently apply to the security clearance of foreign citizens. The Ministry of Defence is therefore promoting changes to the rules of procedure in clearance cases and the amendments to the rules of procedure have been tried to harmonize with the rules of the Administrative Act. The members of the Defence Committee agree with the proposition that clarification of the Security Act has been necessary in order to bring about a timely law. It has been necessary to clarify that the security clearance shall be provided in the absence of reasonable doubt as to the safety qualification of the person concerned. However, the Defence Committee considers it necessary to clarify that any commitment of persons to a foreign country does not in itself constitute a basis for refusal of clearance. Therefore, on a case-by-case basis, an assessment of the nature of this bond must be made. In line with our intentions on transparency and non-discrimination, the Committee therefore considers it appropriate to agree with the proposal of the Ministry of Defence. The Committee also agrees that it is right to subscribe to the intentions of Section 25 that the person who has been declared safe should have the right to be informed of the outcome. § 25 concerns security conversations, clearance decisions and right of appeal in addition to the right of access to your own complaint. These changes are positive. There is also a proposal for Section 25. Nevertheless, there is one area where I and the Committee are of a different opinion than the Government, and that is in terms of the structure of the clearing house. The Committee considers that there are too many clearance authorities today and that there are too many mandates from the Ministry, which are really the body entitled to security clearance. I believe we need to look more and more at security and security clearance as a separate subject, which, together with personnel considerations, are arguments that argue for a reduction in the number of clearing houses. Several hearing bodies refer to their own inadequacy due to very small amounts of cases. Too small a number of cases are unfortunate, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, is asking the Ministry of Defence to come back to the Parliament with an evaluation of today's system, but assumes that it is the majority's view that the objective must be to reduce the clearance powers. The Progress Party will conclude on this issue before the Ministry of Defence has investigated this. We're willing to let the department come back to this, like this. in the notified proposition on object safety. I would therefore recommend the majority's vote and the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e88	The rapporteur now made a good presentation of the vote. As far as the number of clearance authorities is concerned, the Progress Party has correctly concluded that we believe that there are enough two, and we believe that the recordings that have been made, in particular through the arguments of the Defence Security Department, are so convincing that it should not be necessary now to take a new round of evaluation. The current situation with 60 clearing authorities is unsatisfactory. We think that the need to find a good solution now in the short term is present, and that we don't need to go for a new round. I will end by mentioning our proposal, which is referenced on page 18 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e95	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e98	Like the previous speakers, I would like to refer to the information provided by the rapporteur, which covers well what is the opinion of the great majority in the matter. As the proposition emphasises, the 1998 amendment of the Security Act aims to improve legal certainty for individuals in security clearance matters beyond what it currently is. The proposals are based on the Working Group Report on the border between legal certainty and human security. As proposed by the proposal, inter alia: the commitment to other countries that Norwegian nationals may have is relevant to the assessment of safety qualification. The proposal also proposes that clearance may be given subject to conditions. Changes to the conditions for clearing for foreign nationals have also been proposed. Here you suggest a certain decoration of the somewhat rigid and strict rule that applies today. It is also important to highlight the background to the Safety Act during the examination of this proposal. In this context, it is important to stress that the preventive safety service is defensive. It therefore consists of various measures designed to prevent espionage, sabotage and terrorist acts from taking place against vulnerable information or objects. So the question of the number of clearance authorities and the dangers associated with a fragmented professional environment. In this context, I would like to join the Minister of Defence's reply of 3 May to the Committee. The Ministry of Defence is in favour of fewer clearing agencies, which will lead to a less decentralised and fragmented professional environment. This issue has also been discussed from a legal certainty perspective. However, centralisation must also be assessed on the basis of a safety aspect. Fewer, but more qualitative, clearing authorities will strengthen safety work and thus contribute to proper clearing decisions. On the other hand, decentralisation and fragmentation are not unilaterally negative, neither legal certainty nor security. An advantage of decentralisation is that businesses are getting more close to safety work. This will create increased understanding and better local anchoring. Strong centralisation of responsibilities could, on the other hand, lead to inter alia: undesirable distance to preventive safety work. Overall, the new and updated Safety Act will thus provide us with a law that is more adapted to the current safety situation, taking into account today’s safety perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e111	The background to the amendment of the law is, among other things, a desire to strengthen the legal certainty of individuals covered by the law. Experience appears to be an important measure. There is a broad consensus in the Storting on the vast majority of the proposed measures in this revision of the Security Act, as the rapporteur has already explained. However, I would like to refer to the question of the notification by the clearing decision in Section 25, Reasoning and notification. SV and the Central Party propose that the person being cleared be notified by clearance decisions whether the outcome is positive or negative, not only in the event of a negative outcome, as the majority assumes. This is in line with the assessment of the Data Protection Authority. I take this up with me the proposal from the SV and the Senterpartiet. Finally, I would like to point out that, in terms of transparency in own proceedings, SV believes that the individual should have the right to see everything that concerns his/her own person. It will reduce the need for a self-appointed lawyer, who may be given access to the parts of the case which may be excluded from transparency. In the view of SV, such a legal order does not serve the person whom the lawyer is set to represent. As long as a lawyer gets information that he can't share with the client, and a refusal in any case could be charged, it's hard to see what function and value a lawyer's role will have. SV therefore wants to vote against Section 25(b) of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e122	The representative, Heidi Sørensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e125	The changes currently adopted by Odelstinget in the Security Act are intended to help improve individual rights, improve the quality of proceedings and increase legal certainty in clearing cases. These are changes on which it is important to stand together, and broad political consensus on such a nature is important. With the entry into force of the Safety Act on 1 July 2001, the legal framework was to a large extent a formalisation of current practice. The focus was on giving the rules the form of law, not changes in reality. On that basis, as well as the fact that the reality to be regulated by the law is constantly evolving, the time is now ripe for change. Today, we are adopting some important changes to the Safety Act as regards the conditions for security clearance and procedural rules for the process. Let me mention someone: the general rule on the right of access to its own main clearing case concerning the simultaneous justification of the clearing decision in the event of notification of the decision. If transparency/reasoning is refused, a provision is proposed which gives the person, under detailed conditions, the right to the appointment of legal representation as to the relevance of the association of Norwegian nationals with other countries in a security context to the adornment of the conditions under which a foreign national may be given clearance. As regards the number of clearing houses, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry in supporting the working group's conclusion that the number should be reduced. We all agree that today's great number is unfortunate. However, there are different assessments around which number is most appropriate. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to emphasise the assessments made by those working on security and clearance issues on a daily basis. However, there are many considerations that need to be taken into account in an overall assessment, and the Christian People's Party therefore agrees that the ministry should continue its assessments and, where appropriate, also look at other structural solutions. However, in the event of a change in the structure being made, it is important to amend the provisions on appeal so that the right of appeal, as the security guarantee it constitutes today, is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02-lower.ana.ud1250e155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then is the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 718]]
