ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e28	From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative of Ivar Østberg from 20 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ruth Stenersen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Ruth Stenersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e49	Ruth Stenersen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Karita Bekkellem Orheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e54	I would like to make proposals on behalf of Knut Storberget, Gunn Karin Gjul and I signed the right to take out insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e59	The representative of Ola D. Glötvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e62	On behalf of Eli Sollied Överaas, Inger S. Enger and myself, I would like to propose a ban on the dental filling material amalgam, as well as to establish an adequate treatment offer for people with mercury-related diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e91	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars SponheimState Council Laila Dava State Council Kristin Klemet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e110	I have a question for the Minister of Education. The school has so far been an almost unadvertised area. Recently, the pressure against school and advertising in school has increased. Municipalities have been offered school books funded by a number of marginal publishers, and local businesses have been involved in sponsorship and support and advertising in schools. The Nyborg Committee presented a position a few years ago, and they concluded by proposing that a law ban on advertising be passed at school. The Children’s Ombudsman, the Consumer Ombudsman and the Parental Committee at Primary School agree and support such a proposal. The new thing is that the advertising industry itself is entering and recommending that the school be an advertisement-free area. The time has come for the Council of State and also the Right to support such a proposal and to promote its own legislative proposal that the school should be an unadvertised area. This is my challenge to the Council of State. Will she take that challenge, and will she propose that the school be an unadvertised area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e123	I have hardly met any adults who believe that the school should develop into a marketplace or into an advertising arena. I myself am personally very negative about it. I also think it is not surprising that the advertising industry is of the same opinion. I guess those are mothers and fathers who are as ethically conscious as the rest of us are. I have taken the initiative to develop a guide for the schools that they can use in meeting difficult questions. I would also like to say that this with sponsorship is already quite well regulated in the law, but I would also like to inform you in response to the letter I received from that group against advertising in school, that I want to start an investigation work to see how this can be done. But then I think it is important that we also discuss the consequences of different alternatives. What I have so far seen in proposals is in principle two: one is to ban advertising in the school books in primary school. This is not difficult – there is no advertising in schoolbooks in primary school today. But what is more important is that the school books make up an increasingly smaller proportion of the learning material and the learning arenas used in Norwegian school. The alternative is – as someone says – to ban advertising at school. But in this case it will affect the use of the Internet, the cooperation between school and business, the arrangements for milk and fruit and gifts in the form of rulers and the reflection of local bookshops. And it will, for example, make it impossible to use the Tagblade’s poetry database in literature and lyrics, to give just a curious example. So the question is, is it possible to find intermediate ways here that appeal to common sense, and that are practical for schools? I have not seen any good suggestions, but I have said that we will try to find out. I have also invited this group to make very specific proposals – if they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e134	I thank you for your answer. Making a guide I know is not good enough, it won't work. Obviously, it must be tougher – if we are to be able to maintain the school as an advertisement-free area, an area that is not subject to increased commercialisation. We already have on the market textbooks that are advertising funded and that are offered to the municipalities. That's why it's not true what the government says, that there are no textbooks in which there are advertising, and that are advertising funded. I think it's only one way to go, and it's getting a law ban on advertising in school. I don't think we need much more investigation. The Nyborg Committee examined this a few years ago and concluded quite clearly that a law ban would be sensible and correct. Parents want it. The Children’s Ombudsman and other representatives are aware that there is a need to create a law that prohibits advertising. My challenge to the Council of State is: we don't need much more investigation. Now we have to act, and we need a law order.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e147	The last thing I don't agree with. A survey has been carried out on advertising in primary school textbooks, and it is practically non-existent. This does not mean that this is not on the market, but what is used in schools has been investigated. That's now the one. The Nyborg Committee does not think that they have made a concrete proposal – and that is the problem. If something is to be done to make sense, it must be precise, practical and possible to check. Then we have to find some legal formula that doesn't leave the impression that it, for example. are prohibited from using screens and the Internet or from having normal contact between school and business. It may seem easy, but in the jusses world, it's actually not that easy. It's very simple, purely legal, if you just ban advertising in textbooks, but at the same time you've said that it's free on all sorts of other training venues and in other teaching materials. I believe that this is absolutely necessary to investigate. I have invited all parties to make concrete proposals. We want to light up the consequences and present this openly. If we find a practical way, we're going to do this, because I share the basic idea that I perceive that the vast majority of mothers and fathers have: we don't want the school as a commercial arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e156	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e159	There's an overall and broad commitment to advertising in school. Parents, students, teachers, Consumer Ombudsman, Consumer Council, Advertising Industry, Children's Ombudsman, etc. has given clear signals to the Council of State. A guide, which she is now producing, is not enough to prevent the increase in commercialisation and the increased pressure on our schools in terms of advertising. In essence, the ban on advertising in primary schools is about quality — ensuring quality in school. If we can't afford to give our students school materials that are unadvertised, we can't call ourselves a knowledge nation. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will she actually work to promote something that is much more committed than a guide? Will she make a proposal for a ban on advertising in primary and secondary schools? This is absolutely necessary and timely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e168	I believe that the question has been answered in many ways. But I fully agree with the representative Lena Jensen that there is a holistic, broad commitment to advertising in school. That's why there's no special advertising in school! If students, parents, teachers, school leaders and local politicians do not want advertising in school, it is not advertising in school. There is no one who can overdo it. It's not free access to the schoolyard or to the kids' bars. Some people decide what to get into the schoolyard, some decide what to put in the kids' laps. As long as you are opposed to putting advertising in the bars, there will be no special advertising either – except for the exceptions I have mentioned, a ruler, some fruit, etc. That, I think, is a rather important Bolverk against advertising. But I have now said – twice, I think – that I will start, and have started, an investigation work to find out concrete, possible legal wording, and that we will illustrate the consequences of them. If SV believes that we do not need such an investigation, I think they should just come forward with a proposal for a concrete legislative proposal now, and then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e178	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e181	My follow-up question I hope the Minister for Consumer Affairs and Children will answer. The Nyborg Committee made a very clear recommendation some time ago. I have read the report, and although we now heard that the school council tried to minimize it, I know, however, that the recommendations, which relate to children's growing-up conditions, are very clear. In addition, those representing the advertising industry are also in the sample. They say very clearly that this they will warn against at the very strongest. I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family – who is also the Minister for Consumer Affairs – whether she is not concerned about the strong professional objections that have come to the grievances that the Government is now trying to address. This is not about schools wanting to introduce advertising – it is about a situation of so poor a community economy that one around the municipality of Norway is forced to make use of the income opportunities that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e190	Thank you for the question. I suppose I just have to point out that the Minister of Education and Research has responded to this. The government – via the Ministry of Education and Research – is now doing a job, a survey. So you have to put down a group – or have already put down one – to look at this. From my point of view, I can say that in 2005, the Ministry of Children and Family supports a new survey of the scope of advertising in school, as well as the views and views of school leaders on such advertising. There are very few documented facts in this area. It may therefore be important that these findings are also taken into account in the further debate. The debate has come, and we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e197	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e200	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Education. Isn't it true that the Training Act describes an opportunity, not that it imposes an obligation? Is it not true that, in a balanced presentation of a problem, which is far from present to the extent that the questioner gives the impression, this should be among the decisions that can be safely left to the individual school, to the school manager, to the individual teacher, and not least to the parents of the individual school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e207	The groupings that have now written a letter and called for a ban on advertising have basically addressed two things. One is the law on sponsorship of schools, and the other is what they call the ban on advertising in school material. As far as sponsorship is concerned, I believe that there is a long way to go in the training law, because it says that the schools now, as they have had throughout our history, have the opportunity to accept gifts, but that there is no opportunity to impose conditions in order to give these gifts, that is. that there is no need to recover. In addition, the Training Act also states that such gifts should benefit all the students concerned, so no one can be dissociated. I therefore believe that the sponsorship issue is far on the road. Indirectly, in my opinion, I have also said something about advertising. The other thing they're raising is advertising in school material. So the question is, what is school material? You have to decide if you want to regulate this. School material can be textbooks – it's a very narrow definition. I've told you about the consequences. It could almost be viewed as a symbolic regulation of the law. School material may also be all other material. There, I don't think we want to regulate or prohibit everything. In addition, it is important, as the representative Sortevik says, that the system is such as to determine the use of school materials locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e216	Rune J. Skjälaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e219	The minister says that the easiest thing is to impose a ban on advertising in textbooks. In the past, we have dealt with this with advertising in school, and the minister has said that this is something that can be decided locally. But if it is that the minister also wants the school not to be a marketplace – it is possible to take a step by step – why not propose a ban on advertising in the textbooks? There's going to be one step on the way. Teacher books are still going to be important. We've understood that about those we've talked to in the follow-up to the paper on Culture for Learning, and about the challenges that the textbooks are facing. So it's clear that the textbooks are going to have a big impact on the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e226	I don't want to say that a ban on advertising is impossible, but there are two aspects to this. One is that there is no advertising in the textbooks in primary school. The second is that if you explicitly prohibit advertising in textbooks, you will leave the impression that advertising is allowed anywhere else in school. It could be a good solution to also bet on that the wit, the common sense and the ethical standard are roughly equally distributed. And a lot indicates that, because now I've received a letter from a lot of organizations, which then represents everyone, including the advertising industry itself. If everyone thinks this – and I have good reason to believe that they all, most people do it – it will take personal responsibility and have confidence that you can make sensible decisions, maybe be a bulwark. As I said, I'm willing to investigate this, but you have to explain the consequences as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e235	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e238	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. In recent times, we have once again received a depressing statistics on the famous 40 pst. the proportion of women in Norwegian governments. Time is running out for business. I'm going to have a law order of 40 pst. quotaing makes sense, authorities must follow up with clear penalties if the law is broken. The Council of State itself has proposed that companies that break the law should be dissolved. There have been signs from other government parties indicating that the Council of State does not support such a sanctioning option. Can the Council of State answer me on what kind of punishment she has the government with to replace 700 men with women? Will be a right of dissolution, or will be, for example: high fines are the consequence of a breach of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e248	This law was proposed by the Government. It has been adopted at Stortinget, and of course it will be followed up by the Government. Now, of course, there is no automatic solution for a company that does not comply with the law. It is one of the criteria that will be set when the law is introduced, namely 40 pst. the proportion of women in control rooms, in line with other requirements also required. This could be done, for example, by: be employees’ representatives and a number of other items of the public limited-liability companies’ claims on directors. Penalty-related procedures will be in place. The register of undertakings is responsible for verifying that the companies comply with the legal requirements. If the requirements are not complied with, the company will be notified of this and then more possibilities to change the composition of the board. We have women who can join the board of public limited-liability companies today. I don't think forced dissolution will be a reality, because this will probably be the case with the boards and public limited liability companies. It is also important that we do not focus too much on this issue of coercive resolution, but that we might say to a much greater extent in the political debate that this can be implemented, this will be done. I would like to refer to the introduction of the Smoking Act. Then there were also quite strong reactions in the public debate, but see how it has been! This will be adapted by public limited liability companies, I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e259	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I expect the government to follow up what the council says. I want to follow this a little further up, because we had a round on this issue in the previous question time. Then there was a lack of female participation in the positions of office. The Prime Minister made some quite perceptive statements that I would like to quote. He said, "It's as well-known as many people who sit there for quite a long time, and sitting a well-qualified man, one can't throw him out to get a woman in." It was the Prime Minister's answer as to why there were no more women in positions of office. Then I want to ask the Council of State whether this is exactly what we want to do to the private governments, and does she share the Prime Minister's view? It's going to be a little inconsistent action from the Government if you can have that argument in relation to the government, while you can't have it in relation to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e271	I think we need to distinguish very carefully between a person who is employed in a position, and who may be employed in an unannounced position, as you are in some positions in the state, and to get new directors in a public limited-liability company where you have, after all, a general meeting every year and perhaps new people on election every two years. Obviously, there's a big difference between that and that. You can't actually compare these two systems and view it as if it were the same and completely equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e276	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e279	Of course, I agree with the Council of State that there is a difference between employees and elected board representatives. But when you hear the argument used by the Prime Minister – and I quote once again what Mr. Orheim has also quoted – that ‘is a well-qualified man, you can’t throw him out to get a woman,’ I have to say that it’s amazingly similar to the argument that I think I’ve heard quite often from business lately. The argument is equal to. My question to the Council of State must be that if it is not acceptable to use these types of arguments from industry, why is it acceptable for the Prime Minister to use these types of arguments when explaining the lack of equality in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e286	I do not want to stand on the floor and comment on the Prime Minister's statements, statements on which I personally do not have exactly the wording, and which I have not heard. But I still think that my answer must be the same: you can't compare these two areas. You're talking about maybe canceling one person to get another by another sex, and of course you're not doing that, whether it's a woman or a man employed in a position in the state. I agree that we have heard some comments from the business community. If it has fallen exactly as the representative here says, I shouldn't have said anything about it, but we can't compare these two areas. That's my answer once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e293	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e296	The idea of women’s quotaing into corporate governance is perhaps the most discriminatory idea launched in Norway. It says that women are not so capable that they can make room for themselves on the basis of their competence, they have to be quotad. In many cases, this is, in the opinion of many, a downgrading of women. I have also recorded that many women in business are opposed to the quota system. That's good. At the same time, we see that a number of companies have problems finding women for the government. In some industries, there are actually very few women. The consequence may, according to the Council of State opinions, be the forced dissolution of other excellent establishments. This is pointless. Isn't it time to turn the reverses here, so we can get the most powerful into the regimes, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e303	For me and some others, this is also about having a competence in our society where women represent half of the Norwegian population — at least half of the adult population are women — and it is primarily about diversity, getting more diversity into the governance. Women today have competence. 60 pst. Of those educated at our universities today, women. What's also very exciting is that some recent studies, such as: A completely new survey from Denmark, which came just a few weeks ago, actually shows that the more women you have in the boardrooms, the more earnings the companies will get. And that's very positive. So all in all, we – and I – think this is a good proposal. We want to follow it up. Nor should we forget that these are transitional periods. Following the possible entry into force of the Act, there will be a two-year transitional period compared to the introduction of 40 pst. the share of women in the board of directors of public limited-liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e312	May Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e315	This matter has been raised several times by the Swedish Government. We have pointed out that we have not had a desired development in women's participation in governments. Rather, there has been a negative development. The Council of State has always argued that business should be able to take care of itself, that it should be done voluntarily, and she has also said today that this should be done – before she imposes and imposes sanctions. The government's policy has so far been misplaced in this area, and I now want the Council of State to say exactly what measures it will take to achieve this, and what sanctions she is willing to impose on industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e323	First of all, it's not right that there's been a negative development. Even though it's going very late, it's going a little bit ahead. So I can point out that ten years ago, when the debate on a greater proportion of women in the boardrooms of public limited-liability companies started, the NHO said they were going through about. Ten years would be enough. So they don't know that. It is a little strange that the issue is whether the government has had a misguided policy, and what the Council of State will do with sanctions. Of course, there is no misguided policy. It is this government, in fact the only government that has proposed this. And the sanctions are, as you can see, in the Storting's own treatment of the law. It's not about going to further sanctions on our part. What is there is very tight, and I also expect the business community to be able to do this in a good way when the law is implemented and the transition period of two years has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e332	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e335	When we dealt with this law, we had a devout wish that this would lead to 40 pst. the representation of women. But we have to recognize that it doesn't look like this. It is important to focus on how to achieve this goal. I don't think this is going to come of itself. It's a fact that we have capable, qualified women who can enter the government. The Minister has also said that in the past. I would like to follow up on the question asked by the previous representative: What kind of offensive is the Minister for Gender Equality now going to lead, from August 2005 and during the two years of this transitional period?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e342	That's an important question. I think it's important that we all cooperate, just as we've also done now, to get this done. There are many different levels of work. Among other things, it works in private business. I want from this pulpit to praise the ‘Female Future’ project to the NHO, which has been very offensive and, in my opinion, relatively successful. This project is still under way. In addition, we have cooperated with the private industry on this and will continue to have it. We've also created several databases. Also in the state, e.g. In Innovation Norway and the SND system, there have been a number of management seminars, in which hundreds of women have been qualified to be in the boardrooms. That's pretty interesting. So women take the closest education in government. Men have never done that, and they're probably never going to do that. So there's a bunch of things going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e349	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e352	I have a question for the Minister of Education. One year ago, in fact almost exactly on the day, the Minister of Education was in the spontaneous question hour, and one of the themes at the time was that there were as many as 5,000 places of study missing in high school. The problem remains. We know that the number of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 up to 2010 will increase more than the general population. In the course of the year that has passed, the Progress Party together with the Government has been able to implement the Law on Secondary Education, too. A number of applications for the establishment of independent secondary schools are now for treatment. Will this not address the need for additional places and an increase in the number of places in secondary education? Will not independent secondary schools be an important complement to the provision of county councils? And isn't it that under the Training Act, we actually have an obligation to get an offer, but we can't get such an offer for many students?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e361	Before we got the law, we had a private school law, so we have a lot of experience in having what we then called private schools, which we now call fresh schools, namely private schools that meet the criteria for receiving support. I believe that we have good experience in saying that we should be able to hope for a good interaction, a good supplement, a good cooperation between public and private schools. At the same time, all in Norway are entitled to secondary education and, in this case, municipalities and counties are obliged to provide it. Therefore, the financial settlement system must take into account, in relation to health schools and between countries, municipalities and counties, that the county has obligations and planning challenges other than those of primary schools. But when it's said, it's a gradual, small growth. I never believe in any very large amount of these colleges, just because it's not possible to earn a penny on them. So I don't think there's any particular incentive there. I think it's going to be a supplement. But when that happens, I think it can work fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e368	There are more than 400 applications for the establishment of fresh oils. More than 100 apply to start-up from coming school years, 2005–2006. Opinions have also been collected from all the county councils, which were challenged in terms of their monopoly. Then it's strange that the government party Christian People's Party, which here in Stortinget has helped to bring forward the law of free school, actually comes up with objections in the hearing opinions. That's not the most important point in itself, although it's a point, but the important thing is that there are many people who have searched. There are many students and parents waiting for clarification. The well-founded concern is that we now get an obstruction round with appeals and the use of appeals from all the county councils, which can actually prevent very many of the high school schools that want to start in the fall, maybe not manage it. How does the Council of State ensure that it actually starts school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e379	Firstly, there are probably slightly fewer applications than those made in the media, among other things. because part of them must be regarded as unprofessional. In addition, only a minority apply to the new law on early school leave. Many of them relate to schools that could also be approved under the old private school law. They must meet strict conditions, which the Education Directorate now assesses – more stringent than before – to quality, to the intake of pupils, to limited excesses and to ban all forms of dividends. That's what the Education Directorate is looking at. In addition, they look at the hearing opinions and objections from the counties, because the law says that the counties should not have any veto rights, but that if they have significant objections, they should be taken into account. Then I want to mention one aspect, and that is the financial settlement, where some county councils claim that they will lose money on this because they spend less money in public schools than the colleges get, even the colleges get less than the public school. I can then tell you that the Government of the Municipality Proposition will make proposals to reduce this trend towards the states, so that such cases do not occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e386	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e389	Now the state council answered almost in its last answer to my actual follow-up question. But I would like to point out a headline in the Newspaper yesterday, where again a county rapporteur – this time the county rapporteur in the South-Trøndelag – promotes claims that the schools will be ‘an economic disaster’ for the county municipalities. The Council of State itself has pointed out that it is the individual priorities of the individual counties that may be the main cause of problems. But let me challenge the Council of State on this, because it is clear that the debate that is going on about public schools and possible fresh schools, and that it is going to affect the economy of the individual municipalities, takes away the focus from what should really be the important thing, namely the content of the school. Is it not time, then, to find ways to finance higher education in another way, so that the state is more funding direct access to individual pupils or institutions, so as to avoid the debate on the financing of public and private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e399	This has been debated many times in this Chamber, and the Government is in favour of framework funding, among other things. in the interests of local democracy. In the case of fresh schools, the system is so that every student gets less money than every student in public school. The arrangement between the State and the State and between the State and the Municipality is such that municipalities and counties will serve it. That's good reason, because they have duties and planning challenges other than colleges. Nevertheless, some claim that there may be cases where they do not serve on it. Among other things, I see that the Workers' Party in the South Trøndelag claims that they spend so little on their school that they don't earn it. We want to take that into account, and we have already done so by changing the funding system in terms of primary and fresh schools linked to it. So we're going to come up with a proposal on this in the community proposition in the case of high school, so to speak, to remove the argument that has nothing to do with the law on high school and that is not intended. The system is designed to take into account the planning challenges of municipalities and counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e406	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e409	Almost all the counties have opposed the establishment of a large number of private schools, because they believe that it would be negative for their ability to provide a wide-ranging decentralised offer to their own students. The private schools — many of them based on commercial school chains — will offer only the cheapest and most popular lines and central lines. The government talks a lot about local responsibility and less central governance. Governments will ultimately be responsible for setting up private schools and will not be able to decentralise them to underlying establishments. My question is this: Will the Council of State take into account significant objections, and has she informed the Education Directorate of what significant objections can be accepted? Or: Will the State Council have the Education Directorate run over local elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e418	The law explicitly states that local elected representatives do not have the right to veto, because this is a law designed to prevent students' freedom of choice and parental rights. But it is also clear that we should take into account the objections that arise. I have mentioned that we want to change this drawing system, to call it that, and to propose this in the municipal proposition. We will also look at – as we have announced earlier, if there is a bias in the supply of lines or directions of study – whether we can have different rates for directions of study, so that there should be no disadvantage to the counties either. I can also inform you that I have received an enquiry from the Education Directorate, asking for the department's interpretation of the law in terms of the total volume for the establishment of health schools. Now you see that there's a certain accumulation of applications right this year. Each application can be good enough for each other, but overall it can create long-term planning challenges. I would like to answer the question from the Directorate of Education, where I take account of such matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e427	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e430	It was an interesting information that some of the applications were «unusual». Interestingly, the majority of Stortinget has passed a law inviting ‘user’ actors to apply for permission to run private schools. Then my question becomes – as the proceedings have already started here in Stortinget: Does the Council define, for example, the applications from John Bauer, the Swedish commercial operator, and from V^an hoá as «userious»? It would be interesting to know this, as the Council of State uses the term ‘user’ applicants in setting up private schools. But my question also concerns county councils, who have objections. The county councils are responsible for providing student places, they have to provide places for their students. The students have rights. When the county councils can demonstrate and demonstrate that all these applications are accepted and the student places are put in place, can this have serious consequences for their ability to meet and make room for the students? Would it be such a serious objection that one should say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e437	First of all, if Rolf Reikvam ever had to take up the government offices, I think he'll see that there are up to several ‘unusual’ enquiries there. By that I mean to say that it is quite clear that some of the applications – 200 applications have been received from a single person – can be seen with an eye to see that they do not meet the criteria for establishing a post-secondary school. And so in terms of volume: I fully agree that volume and pace in connection with the establishment of fresh oils is a relevant argument, seen from the counties' side. As I explained in my previous reply, the Directorate for Education has addressed a request to the Ministry to assist with a legal interpretation in this regard, and I will go into that. But I believe as a starting point that it is relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e444	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e447	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. There are now signs from many parts of the country that the number of child protection cases and the number of anxiety messages is rising sharply. Major care failures, mental illness, drug problems and poor finances are among the reasons why more people are asking for child protection assistance. At the same time, we see some places that you actually cut the number of employees in child protection, while at the same time increasing the number of cases. It could mean that those who are the weakest in our society, children who grow up in such bad conditions that child protection actually has to come in, don't get the help they need. What will the Minister for Children and Family Affairs do to ensure that all children in Norway receive proper help?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e454	It's true that we have an increase in the number of child protection concerns. We've had that in the last few years, and it's important to have a good statistic on this. I guess the representative refers to the statistics that came from the Statistical Central Bureau a few days ago. This preliminary statistics may not be quite correct, but at the same time it is correct that child protection should be notified to several disadvantaged children. The representative mentioned that there were cuts in the number of courses in the Child Welfare Service. The number has actually increased — if you look at it over time, from 2001 to 2004 — so that's not what was said. It may be that an example is found, but overall, municipalities have also increased the number of posts in municipal child protection. What is important is that all children get help when they need it. We see that the proportion of time-limits, i.e. the fact that child protection is not early enough when they get a message, has fallen. 97 pst. all notifications are processed within one week and there is a slight increase from 2001 to 2004. We're looking at this positively. There has also been an increase in the number of studies in the protection of children within the time limits. We might have to go deeper into the statistics if we're going to find the reasons. It may also be, as we hope, that development is due to a lower threshold in order to make contact with child protection. This is also one of the reform measures of the new child protection system, which means that everyone should be able to make previous contact and receive previous help. If it's because more people have a lot more difficulty, it's clear that it's worrying. Child protection follows this up in all regions, including in the new child protection, also in the municipalities. Municipalities are doing a good job with child protection today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e463	I thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, the signals from parts of Norway are very worrying. On Monday 4 April, the newspaper had a headline entitled ‘Youth Criminals Out of Control’, where the chief of police station staff at the Stovner Police Station pointed out that countless brutal kiosks and shop cranes, violent and shooting episodes, now require an alarm. He says he fears that today's kiosks and store cranes will become tomorrow's Stavanger raiders, and shows that some are already established criminals. We don't get to do anything with them, he says, but we have to prevent their younger brothers and friends from being recruited. He indicates that child protection is too late, that you don't have enough resources, and that you actually risk getting it all out of control. In that case, I do not think the answer from the Council of State is good enough, as a much stronger and more offensive effort is required to prevent children and young people from entering the environments that are often the result of poor growth conditions, drug abuse, mental disorders, etc. – and I wonder what the Government intends to do about it, offensively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e473	I fully agree with what was said, and these are also some of the things we do. The representative also knows that much better and more preventive measures are being taken in the field of child protection. We can already, one year after the reform was introduced, show that we are using institutions less. We use foster homes more, if you have to take the child out of the family. And the relief measures are increasing. It also shows that we've been able to get on the offensive more effectively when it comes to getting in earlier and using the community-based methods of child protection, multisystem therapy, MST, and what we call Parent Management Training Oregon, which is just about catching up kids and young people as early as possible. In the case of MST, it has also proved to be a very successful method of preventing crime and drug problems among children and young people. We have also launched quite large cooperation projects between police and child protection. In several municipalities, this work is now very well done. We're getting a new survey in November this year on knowledge status related to cooperation between different local authorities and between the first and second line services. This will also be used to launch even better cooperation models between the different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e480	There will be two follow-up questions – first Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e483	It is obvious that good growth conditions through public provision to children and young people are the best guarantee to prevent children from becoming criminals. Until now, we have had very little crime in our youth group, precisely because we have been good at prevention measures. But what we see is that this is an increasing problem. As for those who have already become criminals, it is essential that we manage to stop them while they are still in the starting pit for a criminal racetrack. For that group, we often lack the good measures. For children under 15 years of age, there are often no responses at all, and for children over 15 years of age, prison is often the only option we have. We know that prison for 15-year-olds acts as pure criminal schools. I want to challenge the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and hear what she is going to do about this group, to stop children and young people who are in the starting pit for a criminal racetrack. What measures does she intend to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e490	This is a vulnerable group. In the case of juvenile delinquency — in the case of children under 15 years of age — we have done a lot. From last year, closer cooperation between police and child protection has been established in such cases. If the police get to know and report a child under the age of 15 as a criminal, a parent conversation is being called up today, while the police are obliged to send a warning of concern to child protection. These children and young people are being followed up in a completely different and better way today. Clearly, this is a challenge for the police and child protection. At the same time, it is clear that the municipalities have a responsibility. But I would also like to refer to the good measures that the Ministry of Children and Family have put in place in relation to growing-up conditions, i.e. youth action in large cities. These measures have now been extended to 23 of our largest municipalities and our largest cities. There are very good measures that are directly at the heart of the organisation of better youth action for these vulnerable groups. [[The President clubs.]] That is a good means of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e497	For the sake of everyone who wants to ask questions, we have to take the time, and it's 1 minute to follow-up questions and 1 minute to answer. May Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e502	Child Protection messages have sessioned. In percentage terms, we agree to fewer measures after notification than before. The threshold for granting measures is higher than before, the feedback we receive when we travel around the country. There are also child protection officers who have been out there and said this publicly. It is the local economy that governs child protection measures, not the need, says the individual child protection worker. Recently, I have also received several enquiries from employees in the state child protection system who say exactly the same thing, that it is the economy and not the need that governs the measures also in the state child protection system. This applies to our most vulnerable and vulnerable children, who are entitled to action under the law. The development of violence has been under discussion. Is not the Council of State concerned now when it comes to communications both from municipalities and from national child protection that it is the economy that governs the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e509	If it is true that there are alarming messages from employees in the protection of children in the municipalities and from the protection of the state’s children that it is the economy that governs, it is clear that it is very worrying. These messages have not been received by this Council of States. To the extent that you know where this is happening, I'd like to know. Of course, I will follow up on this. I would like to point out that with regard to disclosure obligations and information rights, there are quite strict rules attached to this. We provided a new circular on the obligation of professional secrecy and a circular covering both the obligation to provide information and the right to information about the protection of children, a few weeks ago. There has been some variation in how this has been followed up in the different municipalities and the different levels. This has been very well received. I think it can be very clarifying, both in terms of the right of other agencies to provide information on child protection, and also in terms of how child protection should respond to these messages in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e519	I have a question for the Minister of Education. «Friskole-boom in Bygde-Norway» we read in the nation today, about fresh schools replacing local schools. There is a clear development in which we see that where the municipality is forced to lay down schools and centralize the students, there are some parents who say no, we don't find ourselves in, we want our school, we start a high school. It takes a lot of work and organization, but so important is the school for them, for the kids and for the village, that they take on the task. My question is: is it increased freedom of choice for parents and students that a person is forced to undertake schooling for a school that is identical to the public? Does the Council of State, as the head of public school, mean that schooling is a parenting task?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e528	Just as there are fresh schools in the countryside, and the creation of cross-border schools, there is nothing new. But it shows that it's not quite right, as someone claims, that a law of free school only works in the big cities. On the contrary, it looks like it has effect in many places, and I think it's positive. The key to us is freedom of choice and parental rights. In the case of the law of high school, which is much debated, nothing has really happened to it except that we have removed the requirement that the schools must be religious or have an alternative pedagogy. Otherwise, the requirements are broadly tightened, both in terms of quality, the prohibition of sieving pupils, prostrations and, in particular, the requirements for dividends. I look positive at the boarding schools, and I'm saying that there are a lot of people in this room -- maybe not right now, there aren't so many here -- in this big business and previous stuffing that's gone into the freshs themselves. I guess there's a lot of people who have their kids in the freshies, and I'm guessing that everyone has good reasons for that. The reason why you want to go somewhere else is because you want something special, for example. Steiner-pedagogics, religion or what it should be. Or it could also be what I would call a little more negative reasons, and I think that might be a little underestimated in the debate, that there are some people who have to get away from the school they're going to, because you don't fit in with that high school and in the class you've been assigned. What is a little paradoxical about the issue being raised is that small schools are very often discussed from an economic perspective in Norway. They should also be discussed from a quality perspective and a pedagogical perspective. But if you leave it at risk, it's a paradox that the small schools are often very expensive for the municipalities, but not expensive for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e537	But this isn't about alternative schools, these are schools that are identical to the public, but that the public can't afford to run. My claim is that active villagers do not choose to run schools, but are forced to run schools for the benefit of the kids and the village. Today, there are many applications to establish health schools, two-thirds of which are high schools. Many municipalities have pointed out that recognition of these will frustrate existing school services. My question is, how does this correspond to the idea of freedom of choice? Should freedom of choice apply only to those who choose a private offer, and not to the large majority who want to go to public school, but where the public school, for example. in Austrheim in Hordaland, perhaps not there until next year because the student base is weakened, and because the county municipality cannot afford to operate with a weakened student base?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e547	There is no school obligation in Norway, it is a training obligation, and Norwegian parents can choose between a private school, a public school, a free school or home school. 98 pst. chooses the public school. The satisfaction with public school is great, and it is growing. The Government's aim is that, through the promise of knowledge to be implemented, even more people will be satisfied with the public school. However, I believe that it is not contradictory that we should respect the freedom of choice and the right to parent. If it is the case that the establishment of fresh oils would frustrate the public offer, as referred to here in the question, the applications will not be accepted. I have even explained in this questionnaire that the Government will change the financial framework conditions, that we will see whether we can have different rates for study directions, and that the Directorate has also addressed a request to the Department on this matter with volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e552	There will be two follow-up questions – first Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e555	It is good that the state council no signals that she will look at the economy in relation to the county councils. There's a proposal from the Center Party to consider in Stortinget about that. It's nice that the government is coming. I thought the Council of State underestimated what is now the problem in many district municipalities in this country. Where the local economy did not stretch to and the municipalities have to centralize their schools, parents have one choice if they see the value of keeping the school in their own community, and it is to enter and engage themselves to establish an alternative school. Is that an option? Is it such that this government is only in a position to choose a fresh spot where there is an alternative, or will the government be doing something to ensure the freedom of choice for all parents who want a public school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e562	The economy of Norwegian school is improved. It spends more money. There is higher teacher density and higher adult density on average. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the school structure, and when you debate it, I think – I hope at least – that you not only debate the economy, but also what gives students a qualitatively good offer. If a municipality decides for it and the school structure, and the parents decide that they then want to start a high school, I do not think we can impose any prohibition on parents in those municipalities to benefit from the same freedom of choice and parental rights as everyone else. Everyone in this room will obviously allow someone to set up fresh schools, those who have a religious alternative, a pedagogical alternative. I don't think the New School or the Montessori School or the Skagerak School stands back for the choices that others make, and I think that that right should be as equal as possible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e567	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e570	I don't think the logic of the Council of State is entirely connected. She shows that it's only 2-3 pst. who attend private schools, and therefore the new private school law is not a problem. The point is that the new law has not yet had an impact on School-Norway. After all, it is only from the harvest of, the next harvest and the harvest that the real release of the schools comes, because those who have searched for the new law have not yet started. Governments themselves have repeatedly referred to Sweden, where this has gone so well. Well, now the new surveys in Sweden show that there are larger social divisions, there are greater differences between students, and also alarm signals from some in the political environment show that this is about to change. So my question is whether the Council of States will now change its perception, as the signals from Sweden to which she herself has always referred are actually the opposite of what she has previously referred to. There will be much more private schools, and there will be greater differences between students and the offer they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e577	The Free School Act has been tightened up on all points in relation to the private school law except one — we no longer demand that the purpose be religious or pedagogical. The number of new schools that have come to primary school as a result of this and that could not have been approved since the previous one is approx. ten. So there's a lot of applications this year, but there'll be fewer next year. The reference to Sweden does not fully comply because we do not have the same law. In Sweden, among other things, the possibility of taking dividends. The Swedish school minister, who is a social democrat, says that he is positive to the high schools, that it is driving quality development, and that freedom of choice is important, but that it is also important that everyone has information. He thinks it's good that there are choices, and says he has no ambitions to change it. In relation to this with social segregation, I believe that it does not result in correctness. There's inequality in Norwegian school. There is a difference between a school in the west of Oslo and the east of Oslo. Then the question will be, Will free choice of school or high school increase or decrease that inequality? That's an empirical question, to say it short. It must be examined on a case-by-case basis and it is not possible to draw any general conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e586	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e592	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Ola D. Glöttvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e607	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: «A widow in Kvinesdal experienced that last autumn the flood dug out the ground under her house. Steps had to be taken immediately to save the house. At the insurance company she was told to contact the Natural Damage Fund. There she was told that she did not receive support because the plot was attached. What will the Council of State do to help women and persons in similar situations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e616	It follows from Section 3 of the Natural Damage Act that damage to property belonging to the State, to a municipality or to a county municipality is not replaced under this law. This is a consequence of the principle of state self-insurance, and there is a question of whether the state will spend money repairing damage to state property. After I have been informed, it is the Information Service's fund that is the landowner/disembarkator in the matter that the representative here addresses. The principle of state self-insurance also applies to property belonging to the Information Society Fund. This means that the attachment is not entitled to compensation in accordance with the applicable provisions. I therefore find no reason to pursue this specific matter in more detail. The woman referred to in this case should, where appropriate, promote, on a case-by-case basis, her claim against the Information Society Fund, which is non-binding. I can otherwise inform the representative that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food already in the budget proposal in the autumn announced that we will start working on a broad review of the natural damage regime. In this context, it would be natural to consider the scope of the scheme, including whether landowners owned by the State, a municipality or a county municipality, which is made available to the party under long-term contract, are entitled to compensation under the Law on Natural Damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e627	I'm very disappointed in the answer. This does not apply only to this person. There are actually 300 party seats here in the country, where parties in relation to natural damage pay an insurance sum to the Natural Damage Fund without getting anything left for it. The landlord, as an appraiser, called this widow and informed that if the bill of NOK 200000 was not paid, he would force her house, the house of a person who believed that she had paid to insure himself. Now it turns out that the state and the state council also have no interest in helping her or other people in similar situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e632	I do not understand that the representative has followed up on my answer, because I therefore said that in the budget proposal last year we announced a review where this is assessed. There is a legislative basis here, and it is a regulation that I have not seen that the representative has at any time been opposed, namely that the State is a self-insurance provider in such cases. It is a fundamental principle that in cases where the State is not owner, but private owners, the landowner is responsible for making the land available for fastenings. Then it is the owner who gets compensation when the damage has been repaired. This means that in this case it is obvious to me that this party who has suffered this damage has the right to have the land repaired by the Information Service's fund, which is attached. It is such that when a partyer, a right to have his house there is rented. Then it's the one you pay to get that right, which is obliged to keep you empty. When the land then disappears, it is of course the obligation of a fastener to repair the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e637	Yes, then I would like to thank you for the answer, which now became much clearer and much easier. It is true that even though the state is a self-assured person, they also have a responsibility for people not getting up in such troubles that they have to sell houses and homes because of something they have initially not been aware of. I hope that the Council of State can clarify the procedure this widow and other parties in Norway will choose to get this money out, when it is such that the gentleman, who is responsible for such damages, only tells those who live on the fenced plot, that either pay the bill, or he sells the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e642	As I said in both my answers, it is such that the plot is fixed in this case. When the plot you pay for disappears under the house, you have to contact the person who owns the plot and who is obliged to keep you with an empty, because you pay for it. Then it would be, as I said in my reply, on a private legal basis, so that the owner of the plot must make sure to repair damage, and that one delivers it is obliged to deliver, namely an empty for parties. It is such that the landowner must have a responsibility. When he takes payment to rent away a land, the owner of the land is responsible for delivering what he will deliver, namely an area to have a house on. In this case, the fastener should grab hold of this. It must obviously have been a misunderstanding here, that one believes that the rules of the Natural Injury Fund, the borrower, etc. comes into the picture. We'll see about that. But it is clear in Section 3 that for state-owned reasons, it is the state that is responsible as self-insurance. I would recommend this woman to make contact with the owner of the plot, the fund of the Information Society, in order to find out what is left of her.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e656	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «Sunday, April 10, 2005, there was a look-up in the Evening Post, where the head of the Oslo Joint Police Association was strongly opposed to the situation in Oslo, claiming that after the large increase in the budget for the current year, there was still no more visible police in the streets of Oslo. It was also referred to other matters that the Police Joint Association thought were the basis for this. Does the Council share the view that there is no more visible police in Oslo, and in that case what is the reason for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e665	It is quite right that the Oslo Police District, as a result of the budget agreement between the Progress Party and the Government, saw a significant increase in the 2005 allocation, more specifically 105 million. kr, in addition to St.prp. No 1 for 2004-2005. The agreement provided that the reinforcement should go both to the national tasks and to the general operation. According to the information I obtained from the Oslo Police District and the Police Directorate, these assumptions have been followed up in Oslo's budget planning for 2005. The increased appropriations include: as a result of which the Oslo Police do not need to attend unoccupied positions this year. In 2004, they accounted for about half of the total population. 70 vacancies, i.e. unaccompanied jobs. It itself will increase the number of active police and strengthen the possibility of more visible police. In addition, Oslo police districts will employ more bodyguards and more detainees, who will also help the police district to release more police officers and women for out-of-court efforts for the people of Oslo. In other words, the increase in appropriations for 2005 has given Oslo Police considerable scope for action in order to combat crime in Oslo, and has been fully followed up in line with the budgetary agreement's intentions and assumptions. This means that I do not share the views expressed in the evening post of 10 April 2005 by the Joint Commissioner of the police in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e672	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which sounds positive. It is in line with what was part of the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. However, it is worrying, in my view, that one can perceive it so that the police community here is far on the way to providing some sort of disinformation. It will be inconvenient, as it can help create uncertainty for the citizens of Oslo. If you see it in the light of a statement on Monday 18 April that last year Oslo solved three hundred gross thefts, the situation in Oslo is already challenging enough if you did not get this on the purchase. So my follow-up question to the Council of State is: for how long does the Council of State expect us to have to have strengthened appropriations in order to continue to reveal the real crime that exists here in Oslo, and thus have opportunities to fight it and reduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e681	It was already so in situations of tight budgets that the Oslo police managed to achieve excellent cooperation, among other things. with traders and outpatients in order to combat a good part of the profitability. Already in the current year, the Oslo police – in addition to the serious organised crime that the representative and I know what is, and that we do not want to become everyday crime – with strengthened resources have focused very strongly on bringing down what we call business and kiosks, and have in the first quarter clearly reduced it by 70 pst. It is my opinion that the police, through the increased resources they gained in the budget agreement, also for Oslo, and the experience they have gained in preventing the crime of profits, will be able to focus on this. As regards the future budgets, they are presented when they are submitted. The representative and I have the agreement that we talk when we get that far. For my part, I am very pleased that we received the strengthening that was in the Government's draft budget, and the further strengthening that came after the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e688	Again I thank you for a positive answer. It's good that we still have a common focus on combating the insecurity that the citizens of Oslo feel, and as some times also, I think, have experienced directly on the body. You could say what you want about a feeling of insecurity. It doesn't have to be real, but you can't take from anyone a sense of insecurity. So I think it's important to focus on this. There has also been a debate on budgetary allocation, on the framework for Oslo versus the rest of the country. It is true that some other police districts have felt that Oslo was well off for the current year. Since the government parties and the Minister of Justice are a party to the budget agreement, I believe that we agree that Oslo still needs and needs to strengthen its position in relation to the total fight against crime in this country. By extension, I would like to hear whether the Minister of Justice sees further needs in special areas in Oslo, where we are still vulnerable, and where we must work together to improve, and thus continue to fight crime and the insecurity of the citizens of this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e697	The representative's party and the party I represent shared the opinion that it was right to get a separate budget chapter for Oslo. I still think that's right. This is true both in order to meet the need to solve national tasks such as the Oslo Police. have through their emergency services, EDDVs, escort services, bodyguards, etc., and to do what they are going to do for the city's population, where, in my opinion, they have found good forms of work in order to obtain results. For a long time they had such a strong pressure against carrying the weapon publicly that it produced results. They want to keep it under pressure so they don't miss it. Both the central police station and other police stations work against the local environment in cooperation with, for example, the local police station. parking companies and, in cooperation with outdoor sites, precisely to combat the criminality of profits perceived as infringing. The representative and I fully agree that the uncertainty that people feel as a result of it must be taken seriously. Because we take it seriously, because the police take it seriously, because the police have been learning better forms of work for more than a few years, and because they've got better resources, I could say last Monday together with the police director that, in addition to keeping pressure on organized crime, we're also going to put pressure on everyday crime. It has in Oslo aspects like business and kiosks, and it has also succeeded in keeping focus. The representative and I have the impression that Oslo needs to bet on both the national and the local level, and that is my main point of view in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e708	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘TV2 The online newspaper has revealed price gaps in the food chains by reporting up to 21 pst. too low prices on the groceries. The food chains are 98 pst. the placing on the market in the food market and the sabotage of the intentions of the marketing law may result in a negative impact on consumers. What will the Council of State do to ensure proper price information for consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e717	The issue raised by the representative Hedstrøm concerns the prices declared by the head offices of the food chain for different goods. These may vary from the store price, but this is not in itself wrong. Under the Competition Act, individual shops should be able to influence prices. However, newspapers use the prices of the head office in their food barometers. TV2 The online newspaper has examined whether the prices in the chains are the same as in the shops, and found some significant variation between stated and actual prices. In some cases, prices are lower in shops, but in the vast majority of cases they are higher. The usual consumer will assume that the price included in the barometer will also be found in the chain stores. If the TV2 Online Newspaper survey is correct, barometers provide misleading information to consumers. I'm sorry. The idea of these barometers is very good, and they should be easy to understand. It is a pity if they prove to be misrepresentative and therefore discredited by consumers. I assume that the newspapers share this concern and that they will take action to correct the credibility of their own barometers. The food barometers are the editors' responsibility, and the presentation and accuracy of the prices stated by the chains are the editorial responsibility of the newspapers. The Marketing Act does not apply to the editorial content of newspapers, but it is important that newspapers indicate how prices have been obtained and also ensure that the products are comparable. The chains on their side must and should provide the information relevant to the correctness of price surveys. However, if the food chains use the barometers of the newspapers in their own marketing, the marketing law applies. The marketing law shall ensure that consumers are not misled. This also applies with regard to price. If food chains use the results of media price surveys in their own marketing, barometers must refer to correct figures. If a food chain specifies that it is the cheapest, this must be documented. The Marketing Act also obliges the shops to mark the goods at the correct price. The Consumer Ombudsman supervises compliance with these provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e732	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There may be little doubt that food chains are cheating to get the best out of the media's price tests, regardless of the editor's responsibility in the newspapers. You cut the prices that are included in the barometers to try to get out well. It may be permissible to do so, but the prices of completely different products are stated. I'll do a couple of examples of that. If you specify a meat price, you can specify the price of frozen meat, which is, of course, cheaper because it is of degraded quality. Or, in the case of sausages, the price of sportswieners, which may have a different fat content to that of ordinary whiting sausages, is subject to stricter requirements. In this way, consumers lose the ability to act as price policy and to compare prices. It is clearly misleading business practices according to the Marketing Act Section 2, as I understand it. In its main reply, the Council of State mentions the Consumer Ombudsman. Is it not time for consumer authorities to go in and clean this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e743	That is really a difficult question the representative is asking. The Marketing Act does not regulate these barometers by themselves, because it is the newspapers that collect this information. Nor do we know how journalists formulate their questions, and what gives the basis for the answers. But I share the representative's concern that this could be misleading to consumers when these barometers are in the newspapers. But it's the newspapers themselves that have to guarantee the quality of the barometers. I think it's unacceptable if it's right to speculate on this from the industry. But it is not marketing, and it is not regulated by the Marketing Act, unless these companies themselves use barometers in their marketing. This is complicated, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e750	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. The daily turnover in Norway is about 160 billion kroner a year, and it has different anti-competitive factors – I can't take that up. However, the reduced food consumption that the Advance Party got together with the Government, which was supposed to benefit consumers, has not been followed up either. That shows the numbers. It is clear that this creates irritation in the low income groups, for a restriction of competition of only 1 or 2 pst. Well, that's going to be billion. Does not the Council of State feel that there is a need for competition authorities and consumer authorities to take a look at this and do something concrete to try to safeguard the interests of consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e759	I agree with the representative that it is important that consumers receive the cheapest food possible. The follow-up question rather relates to the food tax, and there's a slightly different question, on the side of the main question. But I fully agree that this should be followed up, and it is followed up in this way that in terms of what I am responsible for, namely the marketing law, you can see that here the prices are wrong, or that someone is marketing bad prices. The prices indicated must be correct from the point of view of the food chain. However, as far as the main question is concerned, I might be able to contact newspaper editorials to make them write in these barometers, if possible, that these are only indicative prices, and that consumers themselves need to be aware of how prices have been obtained, and that there may be sources of error in some way. If the representative thinks it might be an idea, I am willing to do so, so that even consumers can take more responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e772	My question goes to the Minister for Education and Research: ‘A recent poll showed that two out of three opposed advertising in school books. Organisations as Primary Parent Committee [[FUG]] What measures will the Council of State take to prevent the commercialisation of the school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e781	As I said earlier in the spontaneous question hour today, I think most people will agree that the school should not be an arena for advertising and commercial pressure. A study carried out in 2003 by the State Institute for Consumer Research also showed that the level of promotion at school per year was high. Today is a little. When more organisations now include: through a common letter to me, wanting a law ban on advertising in school material, it is primarily to prevent advertising in the future. I have, even earlier today, expressed a certain scepticism to impose a ban, because it is difficult to find a reasonable delimitation. It's e.g. broad agreement that we should stimulate schools and teachers to use varied learning materials and different training arenas. This requires, inter alia: more teaching materials than books, such as newspapers, periodicals and the Internet, where they are usually also advertising. Equipment and products used in school may also represent a commercial influence, such as: by means of a logo. In addition, the aim is to establish partnerships between schools and local employment and business, such as: may involve company visits, project work for students, accommodation for teachers, teacher participation in company visits and lectures from companies in schools. This illustrates some of the grey zones that may arise. During a meeting with these organizations last week, the issue of advertising in school was discussed. However, there was a law ban on advertising in textbooks in primary school that was actually discussed. Such a ban is not legally difficult, but there are some problematic aspects. If we limit ourselves to imposing a ban on advertising in textbooks in primary schools and thus raise a significant threshold, we will at the same time give a strong signal that the ban does not apply in all other areas of school. As already mentioned, textbooks make up an increasingly small proportion of educational material used by the school today, and any ban on advertising in textbooks could almost be symbolic. The Law on Education and Training currently has no prohibition on advertising, but it is implicit in the provision on the right to free training in the Training Act that no demand for reimbursement can be made when gifts are given to the school. This implies that there is already a ban on sponsorship in the form of counter-performances. It is up to the school owner and the individual school to assess which educational tools they want to use and which partners they want to cooperate with. I trust that schools, parents and local political bodies will be able to assess where the frontier goes for commercial pressure and unfortunate cooperation relations. In order to help school owners and schools in this assessment, the Ministry will develop a guidance for dealing with advertising and commercial pressure at school, including sponsorship. The former organisations have been invited to comment on drafts submitted to the supervisor before completion. I would also like to initiate an investigation to assess whether there are reasonable ways to regulate this field. The study will identify different options and impacts, and those organisations are also invited to make concrete proposals. Finally, schools are designed to deal with concrete situations that arise around advertising and commercial pressure in school. It is therefore important that any regulation of this field be sensible and feasible in practice. Let me just finish by saying two words about this Swedish study. As far as we have been able to gain experience, this is a study conducted by the Teachers' Association that showed that 60 pst. of primary schools in Sweden at the end of the 1990s had been sponsored by enterprises or organisations, and the majority of teachers who responded could imagine accepting sponsorship on the condition that the sponsors did not influence the content of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e802	I would like to thank the Council of State for an in-depth response on a theme that embraces a lot of people. It's no wonder, because this is about protecting our children from a much stronger buying pressure in the future. We've seen that there's been a very broad commitment from multiple agencies, and I think that's very commendable. The situation is that there are some arenas that we think should be free of advertising for our kids. I think it's in many ways a failure statement for our welfare community if, with all the knowledge we have today, we can't protect our smallest children from advertising in school books. One might say that a supervisor will be a tool, but nevertheless this will be an unobligatory tool for the municipalities. That is the issue today. Although in some ways I understand the principle approach that the Council of State is trying to adopt, that it is the school that is to be responsible, this is completely incompatible with the fact that we are to have governance. We know that the local economy is so bad that many people have no choice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e811	I don't entirely share this description of reality. I really don't want to say that my angle of incidence here is especially principled. I guess it's pretty practical. The point is, is it possible to find a legal regulation that is to live with for the schools, and that can get upset? I haven't seen anyone like this. I'd like to figure it out. If there are anyone who has any suggestions, I am very open to receive concrete proposals. I have not seen it from any parties in Stortinget, not from any of the organizations, and it is a practical problem. However, I have said that I will start this work and, as I said, everyone can make suggestions. I think it's eloquent that when everyone has this commitment, and there's nothing special about advertising in school, it might show that it's possible to mobilise personal responsibility, that people take responsibility. Norwegian school does not need advertising funding more than others. We have more resources than anyone else in the world, so there's no need to run school. I have to add that it's another little grey zone. I have children myself. What comes into their investigations – and the school has used them as a post office – and, in my opinion, is of the greatest commercial importance, are enquiries from the sports movement, which very soon afterwards lead to demands for the purchase of equipment bearing advertising. How are we going to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e820	First of all, I would like to say that the consequences we have seen in some municipalities already are that the local authorities have wanted to introduce advertising into the school books. It is justified by poor municipal economy. After strong pressure from parents and employees, some spaces have been stopped. I have to say that we don't have to do this to a question about technique, about jus. Clearly, this is a political question. If we want to – now it is clear that it is the Council of State that sits on the legal competence of the Department – it is fully possible to make such a proposal. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State wants to look at all sides of this, but the political signals and what we see of polls out in our society show that there is strong opposition to such a proposal. Many right-wing politicians have stated that this is a development they want to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e827	I promised I'd find out. I promise that this investigation will be carried out as soon as possible. And if it should happen so wrong that the government option takes over after the election, the investigation should be closed and clear, so that in a few days they can implement such a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e832	That's great.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e841	Let's hope that this transition becomes unnecessary. I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research: «In the treatment of St.meld. No 30 cooperation between parents and the school was emphasised as important for achieving the school’s educational objectives. [[2003-2004]] However, the size and content of schools vary greatly. Development of cooperation requires initiatives. From other countries, we know schemes where parents, superiors, grandparents and others participate in school in different ways. The effect is both calm teaching and stimulation, especially for reading and billing. Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up such schemes also in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e852	In Norway, since its inception in 1976, the Parental Committee of Primary Schools has been working for active parental participation in primary school. Through a number of projects and through various forms of information, parents have been involved in school work in many different ways. However, FUG has not had any projects specifically designed for older people. During a school visit in Sweden in 2003, I met older people who, through their voluntary involvement in school, had become a major and important resource for students, not least socially. In Sweden, this is called «Grandma and Grandpa in School». The measure was also mentioned in the Norwegian press during the visit there. On 8 August of that year, a meeting was held in the Ministry of Senior Citizens' Affairs of Norway, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Rector's Office attached to the Boeverbru school in the municipality of West Toten. Since 1999, this school has had a project where pensioners are linked to the school, and where both these and the students benefit greatly from the cooperation. Elsewhere in Norway, pensioners and the elderly have also been associated with school in different ways, but rarely as a planned and systematic measure. The Ministry stated at the meeting that it was desirable to follow up with a project to test models to use older people as resources in school. It was decided that the then Learning Centre should be entrusted with the task of running the project called ‘School Best Parents’. School-best parents as an idea are developing contact and interaction between children and the elderly through school. In the coming years, older people will form a large group in society. Several can count on many years of good health and profits. They have a varied professional and experience background, and older people represent a significant and important resource in social work. At the same time, they will enjoy meaningful tasks across generations and other divisions in society. Naturally, older people contribute to the transfer of culture, traditions, history, knowledge and experience. Closer ties between young and old increase well-being and security for all, including outside school hours. Both old and young shall experience this as a positive, a win-win situation. School-best parents shall not replace any of the school staff but be an additional resource for the school. It is important that they know responsibilities and have an interest in the development and safety of children. The scheme is based on voluntary activity and is, in principle, unpaid. The main objective is to establish good school models for the development of association and intergenerational interaction. Pilot schools shall test models for the involvement of school-best parents in primary school. They recruit voluntary school-best parents who wish to participate, and the project shall provide good channels for exchange of experience and information between the pilot schools and other interested parties. The pilot schools are spread all over South Norway and Trondelag. Schools share experiences along the way and have a joint meeting this year. The first meeting was held on 23 March 2004. The project expires in the school year 2005/2006. The project management group was established in the autumn of 2003 and consists of representatives of the Ministry, the Directorate of Education, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the Senior People's cause Norway, the Local Governments' Central Association and the Federation of Education. The Ministry looks forward with excitement to the end of the project. The experience gained will be of great importance for the further work of involving new groups of people in the everyday life of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e875	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive response to one of the areas that has been identified, namely, grandparents. In my question, I ask about schemes that include both parents and superiors, as well as grandparents and others. It is that many parents and superiors have time, will and interest in getting into school during school and being active in different ways. I think we can expand and strengthen the involvement of parents and supervisors beyond today's organisation, as we know through the FAUs and the school environment committees that are now coming into place. Many parents and superiors want a different form of participation without being organized or elected. Equally fully they want to be present. This is a potential for the school to open up to. I hope that initiative can also be taken for project work together with FUG on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e882	First of all, I think there's a lot of interesting things going on in many places. It's interesting to see that when schools e.g. will focus more on reading training or mathematics, which is mentioned in the question, often one of the measures is better cooperation with parents and supervisors, and preferably also with other relatives. It is known that on this one point the government had a slightly different proposal regarding the organisation of parental cooperation when we promoted our message Culture for learning. It's not important now, but what might be important is that at least at the time I dreamt that the local government would bring home school cooperation on the agenda and simply debaters: how do we cooperate, and how do we want to cooperate with the parents in our school here in this municipality? It will certainly vary depending on what municipality it is. Now I know that more and more municipalities' parental committees are also being set up, and I would like to take the initiative to discuss with FUG how we can work together to stimulate this kind of cooperation, and how we can also perhaps stimulate the municipalities to put this on the agenda of the local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e891	Again, thank you for your answer. That sounds very good. I'm once again stressing the importance of continuing the parental commission for primary school as we've had it and known it, and the way we still have it and know it. Finally, participation by parents at school has two other dimensions that I would like to send on the way. The Council of State mentioned in the previous question that she was «open» for proposals, so I took advantage of the occasion. One concerns the dimension of supervision. The presence of adults, parents and superiors can be incorporated into a school’s supervisory system. We also know that from other countries. The second is on the safety and watchkeeping dimension, which may include simple aspects such as road safety, road safety. We can go further to measures to combat bullying and even to regular watchkeeping, if necessary. So I hope that the Council of State will also look at these kinds of tasks and, in cooperation with the FUG, discuss whether it can also be further investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e898	I think it's quite common, especially in the big cities, that parents are involved in road safety and that kind of question. It's positive, although my impression is that parents would also like to be involved in what's more about schoolwork and school content. As far as supervision is concerned, we have a different system of supervision. It is correct, as far as I know, that, among other things, Denmark has had a supervisory system based on parental supervision, but if I do not remember completely wrong, I think you are going away from it, in the sense that Denmark is now discussing strengthening its supervision, among other things. with the boarding schools, and that there might be another system there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e914	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘In Skjervøy, an exciting experiment is under way with advanced training in ‘Coastal and fishing tourism’. The aim of the experiment is to provide both the students with organised training courses and to build skills in the crossroads between two study directions. Despite good experience, applications for further testing have been rejected by the Directorate of Education, on the grounds that such tests are not appropriate, as new curricula and structures are now being established in higher education. Does the Council of States support this justification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e923	This experiment was intended to start from the autumn of 2005 and is therefore not a continuation of an existing scheme. The municipality of Trom applied for approval to start this experiment in the autumn of 2005, and the Directorate of Education has given a thorough examination of the application. The Executive Board's refusal of 1 February of this year has its basis in two respects. Firstly, the directorate believes that the overall structure does not give the students satisfactory final competence. Secondly, the Directorate considers that such an attempt is not appropriate at this stage, because we are working on new curricula and new structures in higher education. This is understood by the county council, and therefore the decision has not been appealed to the department. I would therefore like to await the matter to see if within the new higher education programme areas there will be an opportunity for the school in Schreirvøy to have action rooms to provide students with a similar offer where final competence is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e930	A week ago, we had a debate in Stortinget about school at work, where the High School Policy Spokesman said the following: ‘Rights are not afraid of different models being tested and put into system, rather on the contrary’. Schreirvøy School has taken action to ensure the number of students by providing the direction of study ‘Coastal and fishing tourism’. It is a forward-looking offer, where you have cooperated with the local business community, and an offer that will ensure the coast a competence that is absolutely necessary. The half-yearly report on this experiment, which has been going on for six months, shows that the quality of this offer is high. It is incomprehensible to me that you then get a rejection of the application for the further attempt. I had today hoped for a more positive response from the Council of State. What kind of grip will the Council of State take, and will she follow up on this further?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e944	From 2006 onwards, we will carry out a major reform in primary and secondary education called the ‘Knowledgelift’. It involves both structural reform and cultural reform in higher education. Some municipalities, some counties, may apply to start part of the 2005 reform. I'm not going to go far into that reform, but that's the Government's main response to the school policy challenges we have. When it comes to trials in Norwegian school, we have long traditions for it. The more the school, the more central and rigid it was, the less of it now. We still have experimental provisions, and the experimental provisions are managed by the Education Directorate. So there has been an application in here that has been rejected after a thorough treatment. I have now explained what the Education Directorate has justified. You have a right to appeal to the department that can be used, but as far as I have been told, the county council agrees with the rejection and does not want to appeal it. If the complaint is filed, it will come to my table, and only then will I decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e951	Part of this justification, which is also referred to by the Council of State, is that the Directorate of Education has said that such experiments are not appropriate, as new curricula and structures in secondary schools are to be reconsidered. For me, there's an argument that can't hold water at all, when we see that schools are going on. There are also several different types of trials elsewhere in the country with organised training for individual students, labour-related trials and the skills needed in that region. I hope that the Council of State when she gets this case on her desk will be positive to the commitment shown in local schools both in order to maintain the local secondary school and to ensure the competence of the local community. My last follow-up question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State consider it important to focus on the criteria I have now mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e960	One of the first things the government did when we entered the government offices was to change the law to experiment in Norwegian school, in the sense that we made the legislation much more liberal. We also took the initiative to delegate the management of the legislation to the then Learning Centre, now the Education Directorate. They have decided on this application in accordance with the rules. Although we have a liberal code, this does not mean that all applications should be accepted, because then you do not have to apply for anything – then you can do everything. There were two reasons. One is the one mentioned by the questioner. The second is that the arrangement does not give the students satisfactory final competence. Now the representative Jensen believes that this reason does not hold water, but if the applicant is of the same opinion, this decision can therefore be appealed, and if it comes to my table, I will decide on that complaint. After the information I have received, it will not get there, but it is up to the applicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e971	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A zero vision requires better training, while we know that 72 pst. Norwegian drivers believe that it is okay to break traffic rules and take chances in traffic. But a zero vision is probably equally dependent on better roads and vehicles. The Council of State agrees that the rate of development and improvement we have on our roads, such as the one we have on our roads. in Hedmark, to contribute to a so-called zero vision, is deficient?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e980	Initially, I would like to refer to my answer to question 19 in the Question Time on Wednesday 28 January 2004 from the representative Per Roar Bredvold, as well as to question 20 in the Question Time on Wednesday 11 February 2004 from the representative Thore Aksel Nistad regarding the accident load on E6 between Hamar and Lillehammer and other stressed sections. Over the period 2002–2005, a large proportion of the deployment effort is targeted at the most accident-affected parts of the main road network, including: construction of new four-field roads on E6 in Eastfold and E18 in Westfold. Furthermore, there is a strong emphasis on building middle parts on two- and three-field roads and on the implementation of minor safety measures. Experience so far shows a good improvement in safety. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006-2015 presented the Government’s road safety policy. The zero vision shall continue to be the basis for road safety work in Norway. The vision has led to a more targeted nature in improving road transport safety, in particular with a view to preventing the most serious accidents. Most of today's national road networks are built with much lower safety standards than is currently used in the construction of new roads. The Ministry of Transport will strengthen efforts to build safety into new and existing road installations. This involves the development of high-traffic tribal roads into four fields, including: on E6 from Gardermoen in Akershus to Colomoen in Hedmark, and on further use of semi-trailers on two- and three-field roads. Furthermore, a strong increase in appropriations has been envisaged to implement smaller investment measures or so-called point measures, including: based on road safety audits. The coordinated road safety work, also in addition to purely infrastructure improvements, has been presented in the Road Safety Action Plan 2002-2011, developed by the State Road Administration in cooperation with the Police Directorate and Safety Traffic. Based on St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 it is revised for the period 2006-2015 in cooperation with the same agencies plus the Social and Health Directorate and coordinated with road safety interventions in other departments. Furthermore, in May 2005, the State Road Administration will present draft consultation on new road design standards. In the new standards, emphasis has been placed on improving the safety of the road system. Important measures are pitfalls and secure cross-resolutions. This includes, inter alia: safer solutions for all groups of road users, including for pedestrians and cyclists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e995	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am not quite satisfied with the answer to the question whether the Council of State is satisfied with the speed of improvement and not least the speed of development that we have on our roads, for example. in my home country, Hedmark. There's no doubt that if we're going to have a zero vision, our paths need to be expanded and repaired. We've seen a good example of it with the E18 in Westfold. It was formerly called the Way of Death, with many serious accidents. Then it was built into four fields with the middle parts, and now there are no more accidents there. It's clear that building our roads helps. There's no doubt about it. That is why I have to ask the Council of State once again whether she is satisfied with the rate of expansion and the amount of expansion we have today, for example. in Hedmark, and otherwise in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1004	We have managed to increase the rate of expansion in a wide range of projects. I'm very pleased with that. Then I would like to stress at the same time that there are many problems that remain in the transport sector. That's one of the reasons why I really want this government to continue, so we can follow up on the challenges we have just in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1009	If my numbers are right, 237 were killed in 2004. There were 12,096 injuries, so damage was being investigated by the police. Obviously, these are high numbers, which have been relatively similar for many years. At the same time, we know that we have approx. two million cars in Norway. The average age is approx. 10 years. This is due, inter alia, to: fees. When we see that the roads wear down because more than we increase the investment to repair our roads, to build them out, it has to take another boost. That is why I am asking this question, because our roads are getting worse and worse because the amount of cars and the use of cars is increasing. Therefore, I have a strong wish that the Council of State pushes on everything she can in order for us to spend a lot more money and make a greater effort to make our roads safer for those who drive, ride bicycles, go etc. It's serious and something that both our central and less central struts need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1014	I want to point out three things in this context. It is important to focus on further development of transport and infrastructure. It's clear, for different reasons. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the recorded number of deaths for 2004 was 257. There is a level that we almost have to go back to the 1950s to find, or at the time when the car was released. In the 1970s we had twice as many killed on Norwegian roads. Meanwhile, traffic has tripled. This suggests that we have built many more roads. We've got more traffic. Nevertheless, we have managed to make an effort in terms of road safety that has reduced the number. But we're not satisfied. That means we have a job to do. When it is said that 72 pst. Norwegian drivers believe that it is okay to break traffic rules, we have a great job to do, but we also need to move on with infrastructure development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1025	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The size has repeatedly, both when examining the national transport plan and its annual budgets, requested the upgrading of the Borlaug–Øye E16 section. When will the Council of State follow up the repeated decision of the Storting to upgrade that section?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1034	The Øye–Borlaug line is part of the E16 Sandvika–Bergen tribal road. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, National Transport Plan 2006-2015, it is foreseen that a significant part of the route will go to the Borlaug-Voldum sections in Sogn and Fjordane and Wøyen-Bjørum sections in Akershus. Following the opening of Voldum-Seltun in Lærdal, which was a priority in the national transport plan for the period 2002-2011, the Borlaug-Voldum route appears as a bottleneck both for the traffic continuing over Fillefjell on the E16 and for the chooser rv. 52 through Hemsedal. The priorities in the national transport plan and in the annual budgets have been accepted by the Stortinget and local political support for the priority of these routes. In the 2003 budget proposal, the Ministry of Transport briefed the Ministry of Transport on the planning of the route between Borlaug in Sogn and Fjordane and Øye in Uppland. The planning shall define the framework for the actions to be implemented. The impact assessment for the route from Borlough to the state border with Uppland has recently been approved. For the route in Uppland, the impact assessment is for final treatment in the Road Directorate. Proposals for municipal sub-plans have been drawn up under the Planning and Building Act in parallel with the impact studies. For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 The Stortinget increased the E16 Sandvika–Bergen range by 250 million. DKK for the 10-year period, of which 100 million. SEK for the route Øye-Borlaug. I assume that the Stortingen framework increase for this section is followed up in the State Road Service's work on the action programme for investments on the main road network for the period 2006-2015. The main features of the action programme will be presented to the Stortinget in the 2006 budget proposal. The size granted 5 million. SEK to minor remedial measures on the route Eye–Borlaug in 2003 and 9 million. kr in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1045	I thank you for the answer, and am pleased that there will be some money for the E16 Borlaug-Øye. But I want to focus on what was done during the 2002-2005 planning period. Of what was in the E16 action program, there was a target achievement of only 45 p.m., while for other tribal pathways it was at 90 p.m. I also think 90 pst. is bad, but when it is 45 pst. the achievement of the target for E16 in the period 2002-2005 is about half, and it is almost a scandal that the achievement of the target is so small. Will the Council of State guarantee that the funds she is now pointing to will come? Is there any chance that we can get something extra to exactly Steinkläpp–Øye, which has repeatedly been picked up to be rusted up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1052	There is a fairly large consensus that there is a bottleneck left here that it is important to do something about. This is a high priority of the Government. With regard to guarantees for future financial resources, I ask for understanding that this is not what we present in a Question Time as such, but we come back to it in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1059	I thank you for your answer. I heard in the previous question here, no. 7, that the Council of State was concerned with zero vision. Then I can only inform the Council of State that according to the last count on that section of Fillefjell in winter, until 1 March, there have been 113 calls. This is because the road is simply too narrow in winter. Two trailers can't meet, they go to the ditch. At the same time, all the figures – and I have the increase from 2002 to 2003 – show that the traffic on the mountain crossing on Fillefjell has increased by 78,3 pst. It's a huge increase. The other mountain crossings are from 65 pst. And all the way down to 3 pst. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it is time for this mountain crossing, which is the one that trails and commercial traffic use, to have an acceptable standard soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1064	I am concerned that all roads should have a standard according to the traffic volumes that go, and the type of traffic that goes. It is at the bottom of our work on the road side in general. It is constantly in our work and especially in the context of the national transport plan and its follow-up. So without commenting on the individual mountain crossings, I would like to stress that what is pointed out here is important issues that we take with us – and that we have to take with us – in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1073	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen of the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Transport on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1076	I have a question for the Minister of Defence who will therefore be answered by the Minister of Transport: ‘In recent years, many of the first-time graduates have been awarded several weeks before the planned termination. This has in many cases caused major problems for young people, who have provided training or sought leave from work for the information they received when they met for the first time. How does the Council of State view this and, for this year, will it give those entering the first duty a predictable period of service so that they do not receive such unfortunate ‘death periods’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1085	Protectors must be able to expect that the service is both exciting and instructive and that it has a predictable end point. Normal duty is 12 months. The size provides annual support for a shorter period of service of up to four weeks. This was done at the latest in the Budgetary Section. S. No 7 for 2004-2005, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2004-2005. In the same way, the size has allowed the individual soldier to meet his application in up to six weeks, so-called early diplomats, on the grounds of work and training, as long as this does not go beyond standby or military training. The Defence Manager will make use of the system of up to four weeks of shortened duty time where his needs for savings and improvements to financial management procedures and systems so warrant. As you know, the Chief of Defence recently launched measures to adapt the defence activity in 2005 to the adopted budget framework of the Storting. For those conscripts who were called into service in the Army in August 2004, this will lead to a reduced period of service of up to four weeks. However, military guardians shall receive satisfactory training this year as well. This is done by providing the training programme and weighing individual training. In this way, the teams will be fully serviced in international operations. Let me make it clear that neither a shortened period of service nor early termination affects the right to unemployment benefits. Graduates also receive three school credits in connection with admission to universities and colleges, and they will receive an unabated dividend allowance, which now amounts to NOK 15 000. Precautionary status is a high priority. The most important thing is that the service should be perceived as challenging and meaningful for the individual. We are continuing the work on study credits and a stepping up of the distribution allowance during this planning period. Unambiguous, timely and retrospective information on the protection obligation will also be an important part of this work. I would therefore like to take a closer look at the information procedures and discuss this with those responsible for protecting them. The protection obligation is – and will remain – a support bar in the Norwegian defence. Therefore, it is also with great pleasure that I record that the guardians have become more satisfied with the service in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1106	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is claimed that the defense has so little control over their budgets that they have to send soldiers home early because the money is exhausted. If this is true, will the Council of State guarantee that such simple budgeting will be carried out in the future, or is it too complicated for the advanced Norwegian defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1111	I explained in my reply the reason for shortening the service period. The guardians are called into service for 12 months. If they want to be inside for 12 months, they have a right to it. Then this has to be addressed with the nearest supervisor. So for those who want this, that opportunity is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1116	I thank the Council again for the answer, although it was not good enough. But she's the City Council, so you have to count on different! I still have an additional question: will it be relevant for the Defense to go into arrangements that will at least give the soldiers a compensation from the Defense during the period that remains until the planned graduation would have happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1121	As I said in my answer, the reduced period of service or early termination does not change the relationship in terms of school credits or divisional allowances, nor does it affect the possibility of unemployment benefits. Such predictability is important. That means that the guardians, as I see it, are well cared for, and those who want to be inside the twelve months they were originally going to have the opportunity to do so if they want it. That's the way it is today, and that's how it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1130	This question, from the representative Ola D. Glöttvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1133	I will ask the Minister for Transport, who will answer the following questions on behalf of the Minister for the Environment: ‘Snowmobile use results in a great deal of noise in mountain homes. Many cabin owners obtain a derogation from the general ban on motor traffic for cargo which could in fact have been carried out by local tenants. What will the Council of State do to enforce the provisions of the Motor Travel Act that cabin crew should drive even where the rental of vehicles is not possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1142	I am pleased that today – in the stillness day – there are questions related to noise pollution from the increased use of motor vehicles in the outland. The number of snowmobiles has increased significantly in recent years, and there is reason to believe that this is related to the liberal practice of the motorcycling law in municipalities. The 2004 figures of the Central Statistical Office show that the municipalities grant 89 pst. of the applications for a derogation under the Motor Travel Act. According to the applicable legislation, the individual municipality may authorise the use of snowmobiles for cabin owners for the carriage of luggage and equipment between road and cab when the cabin is at least 2,5 kilometres from the broken road. Authorisation shall only be granted where there is no possibility of a rental trip. This condition was set in order to reduce driving and to provide an additional nutritional basis for the resident. In lease-driving municipalities, the scheme will simplify the procedures and control of the municipality. It is important that the municipalities that have a rental drive refer to this when applying for authorisation for transport. In particular, this is the case with regard to carriage to cabins. According to the United Nations on 12 April this year, the districts miss out on millions of incomes by allowing private cabin owners to drive their own snowmobiles to the cabin rather than using rentals by a resident. It is therefore in the local authority’s own interest to enforce the motor traffic code. By investing in rentals rather than granting permission to any applicant, municipalities will not only increase their turnover in the district but will also help to keep the number of snowmobiles down. Through joint efforts, I hope that in the future, too, we can enjoy tranquillity and tranquillity in the mountains.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1161	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think maybe she responded little to what the Department and the Council of State there might think about doing to get to a different order of things. It's kind of interesting, right on the silence day, to be able to take it up with noise, but it's not the most important thing here, after all. The most important thing is that you can have a licensing system that can be carried out by locals, to make the driving as correct as possible, and that you can get a performance and activity scheme, which was also covered by the Council of State, which can at least trigger 90 million. kr in the income potential of these areas. I may think that the Council of State, which responds on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, but which is itself Minister for Transport, should be able to have an opinion on this with license and taxi licenses, so that we got a system that was satisfactory, where it is possible to do so. I'm not looking to limit the use of the scooter, but to make arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1170	Compared to the challenges we face in snowmobiles, it's, as I see it, the municipalities that are closest to evaluating this. That is why I think it is right and important that the municipalities have authority here. Both as a left-wing man and as a member of this government, I am concerned that the state should not have all the authority, and especially not where the municipalities have more gains in having the right to self-determination. So for me, it's important that the municipalities have this right of attorney. When you can both see an income potential for those who live in the municipality, and have the gain with just the silence and the tranquility in the outfield, I think it is right that the responsibility lies with the municipality. But I see there's a big challenge here, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1179	I share the view of the Council of State that this should be under municipal authority. But we know that the statesmen interfere quite a lot in a lot of things. Among other things, there is one thing I have mentioned earlier, about pensioner trips – in Trøndelag in particular, but also in the rest of the country. What I know many municipalities refuse to intervene in this, because it can then feel like a real discrimination against residents and residents. Now we know that it's not obvious that you can take your motorboat and add a berth, for example. in Inner Oslofjord. As you can see, there is a difference in motorized traffic anyway, and traffic in our nature. Could the Council of State imagine that more clear signals were given by the state on the resident versus the outlying residents in the case of outlying scooters?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1186	I see that the municipality has every opportunity to look at who is applying for a derogation, and why it is applying for a derogation from the legislation, and as I have seen it, there are very many exemptions that make the legislation not in practice the legislation that has been requested. Because when you see them together, they have dispensations up to 90 p.m., it goes without saying that the regulation is not according to the intention. I have no problem, either on my own behalf or on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, saying that we have a goal that we should be able to have more peace in the outing, and that the municipalities should then be able to look at the real needs of the applicants, whether they are from one place or another. I would also like to stress that the municipalities have to be much more attractive to refer to the rental journey that is. I myself have experience that it can work very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1195	In line with the last question, we end the question hour 'in silence'!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-20.ana.ud1460e1206	There is no record available.
