ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e28	The representatives Magnar Lund Bergo and Einar Steensnæs, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative Magnar Lund Bergo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e39	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, May Hansen, Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, I will be allowed to submit proposals to protect households from telephone sales if there is no active consent to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e44	The representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e47	On behalf of the representatives of May Hansen, Heikki Holmås and myself, I will propose to give domestic parents temporary status as sole dependants when the other parent is imprisoned for three months or more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e52	The representative of May Hansen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e55	On behalf of Ms. Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to conduct a survey of the living conditions of women in Norway. On behalf of Ms. Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I would like to propose a national action plan for foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e62	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e65	On behalf of the representatives of Ågot Valle, Sigbjørn Molvik, Jan Olav Olsen and myself, I am delighted to propose to make the UN Day, 24 October, an official flag day in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e71	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e74	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Siri Hall Arnøy, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a temporary ban on the import of tropical timber and timber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e79	The representative Heikki Holmås will make two private proposals. - It's direct transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e84	It's the last deadline today. I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representative, Karin Andersen, and myself, to amend the rules on the specialty quota, so as to make it easier for qualified labour to migrate from outside the EEA territory. Then I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Ågot Valle and myself to extend the refugee quota and to earmark part of the UN refugees with family in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e93	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e117	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar District Council Kristin Krohn District Council Thorhild Widvey The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e136	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Justice. A few days ago, there was a look-up in one of the big nation-wide media that showed the problems of everyday crime and the so-called storks. The most gruesome example was a person who had been reported in three years for more than 300 individual cases. That means about. 100 per 100 years and one every three days. This is a person who shows to those degrees that he is not willing to play along with the laws and rules of society. We have a rather clever policy in Norway to respond to this type of crime, and it is well that we take more account of the criminals than of the people most. That means that people are most exposed to everyday crime, and that this is a major impact on business. This can be combated in many ways, and my challenge to the Minister of Justice is: Can the Minister of Justice imagine a system for those who do not respect this system at all, that we go out with names and images for the sake of victims and businessmen as countering this type of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e145	First of all, I want to say that everyday crime is, of course, not as acceptable as the organized one. Police have shown through tools that they have been introduced, that they can deal with large parts of organized crime. We've seen that for years with tight budgets, in 2003 and 2004, the police could stop car theft in parking lots and, in cooperation with business, stop pocket thefts in Oslo Centre. The combination of experience in short years and better budgets for the current year, both because of the Government's efforts and cooperation with, among others. The Party of Ellings, could lead to a better starting point for the fight against everyday crime. When it comes to the specific question that has been raised, I should like to comment on it this way: firstly, I think it is very important that the police do what they do in many places, and have repeat projects. These repeat projects on the police side also need to be followed up by projects in retrospect, as it should not be an objective to return to prison. I'm sure we'll agree on that. To the question of whether we should have a gap stick, to use that word, my answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e154	I thank you for the answer so far. I record again that the Minister of Justice is more concerned with protecting the criminals than with taking into account those who are subjected to this type of crime. A person who has repeatedly shown that he does not respect the rules shall be protected – as opposed to those who wish to protect themselves from this. I think that's a bad signal from the Council of State. Another thing that would have been interesting to hear from the Council of State is parole. When people who repeatedly, as said here up to several hundred times, have been reported for different circumstances, should have the same rights to parole as others, it is very worrying to my mind. The size has pointed out that what you want as a tool in this context is an extended access to the use of DNA. Here, the Storting awaits a response from the Council of State. Then my question will be: Will the Council assess changes to the probation regime? When can we expect a follow-up to Storting's request for extended use of DNA?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e167	First of all, I don't take the crime lightly. The efforts made by the police — and the police have an overview — and the ability to tackle repeaters with specific repeater projects, we know the results. In the case of the probation scheme, it has been modified for the longest time. There's no automation in it. It shall be such as to be individually assessed on the basis of what is at stake. I'll make sure that's what's going to happen. I have earlier, with support, among others. by the party of Ellingen, obtained a tightening of the criminal record for repeat crime. So it's sharpened. I agree with all these measures. I believe in the cooperation that the police are now developing with business locally and with the audience to address everyday crime. Here we need increased focus and increased effort, and I put emphasis on it. In terms of DNA, I've just taken the initiative to look at an expanded use of it. I've put down a separate sample, and I'm waiting for the selection setting. Of course, DNA is very important in the fight against crime. We've seen that in a lot of cases, and I'm concerned that we're going to use it actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e176	There will be three follow-up questions – first Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e179	According to the World Gang, the 20 worst profit criminals have committed 4,000 burglaries. They often come to the courts for 20–30 different rates of depreciation. When the Council of State claims that with our support he has strengthened the penal code, it is quite right, but it is a completely debatable tightening. Will the Council of State begin to assess whether, if not at the first or second time, at least at the third time of the judgment, a criminal conviction is to be imposed for each individual offence, and then one sentence is to be given at the same time, so that, instead of sitting for three, four, five or six months, the effects of the criminal defamation will benefit law-abiding citizens within five, six, seven or eight years? This prevents them from committing crime. Will the Council of State review the penalty rebate in view of the fact that those who are almost giving up do not continue to commit crime to the detriment of law-abiding citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e184	The proposal presented by the representative Hagen was taken up in the context of the general section of the penal code and was not supported by the Stortinge. That's the line I stood for, which got support. It's a line that we've tightened up the repeater penalty. The police shall operate repeatative projects. We know that the replay projects will keep these criminals away from harassing people. But I'm adding, and I'm doing it with the knowledge and the will, that we have the duty to think that when someone comes out of prison, it's not a goal in itself that they're going to return. The administrative cooperation that is about making sure that people get a chance in everyday life, we should also have as a thought. I agree with my policy, just as Carl I. Hagen represents his own policy. Then there'll be a different view of it. But I don't want to go into a Norwegian criminal practice that can lead to being very long, longer than for killing, because you commit profit crime. I don't want American states, which can be translated as 'three fast and away'. Now the representative Hagen hasn't presented it, but I want to show that I don't think so criminally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e192	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e195	The working party is of the opinion that if we're really going to be able to catch up with the riots, we have to bet on a more close police force than we're experiencing today. The second is that we have to bet on responses that actually get people on the right keel. Then it's not certain that it's just right to multiply prison sentences. I visited Kongsberg town yesterday. The population in Kongsberg pointed to the great concern they have because the police are being pulled away from the city. After all, the intention behind the whole police reform was that policemen should come to town. Now the police station at Kongsberg is closed after four o'clock. Those who are going to visit here – it's a pretty big city, and there's a lot of other cities that experience the same – experience that the police are not there. This is important to do something about if we're going to be able to do the repetitions. Will the Minister of Justice now intervene and ensure that the police reform comes on course?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e204	Now the police reform is governed by a police directorate and police officer after the leaders drawn up by the Stortinget and a State Council. I'm not going to go in and take over as an operational outsider. But the police will have focused on everyday crime, and there are different instruments here. It could be both visible, and it could be going after repeaters, who were addressed in Hagen's question. But I have to say that in the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, there is an economic framework for the police to bet. With the budget proposed by the Workers' Party, you almost had to make a modern bread tub if you were to get everything that the representative Storberget wants me to do in every question time. We share the intentions, but there must be some money on the way. Fortunately, they were included in the budget option that was adopted. It was different and larger in police action in Norway than the Labour Party presented. Based on that, I believe there is a basis for the police to focus locally. Then the representative and I agree on one thing, namely that the police have to be locally based. That is why, together, we have also agreed on civil justice on the basic plane as part of a locally based police force that is close to the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e211	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e214	I think it is worth noting that the question that was raised came from a representative of a party that recently took the order to prevent burglaries into their own homes using firearms and ballwoods, that it would be okay to shoot burglars. We have a completely different approach to the problem. We know that approx. 60 pst. of those in prison today have extensive drug dependence. Very many people are not reached by an offer of treatment, and we could do a lot to combat profit crime, burglaries, other types of violent crime and drug crime if we had given these people proper treatment. The Minister of Justice has failed. Our question is: When should a larger proportion, not just 5-10 pst., of those who currently have extensive drug dependence and who are in possession, be reached by a treatment offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e223	I think I've done what I can, and I think a lot more than I have to do what they can. We're not commanding the Berlin Wall that's inside people's heads, when it comes to working with each other in a transversal way, because that's what we're talking about here. If good people in health care, good people in social services and good people in the labour market state meet criminal services, meet the police, they make it work. You can go to a place called Sauda. There you see how you've gotten it locally, because people know about each other. They don't have a Berlin Wall inside their heads. I have worked a lot to build down those walls, but I have also called for an important measure that the Government will come back to soon, and that is the question of a judicial participation in withdrawing the drug addicts and criminals out of both the drugs and the crime at the same time. This Norwegian version of the drug court will be an instrument, and it will also be an instrument to which the police focus. Everyone knows that the police think like that, that someone meets people with respect. Whoever's a drug addict meets with respect. To quote Oslo's police officer Anstein Grangedal, it's not an assignment for us to dig in people's pockets. We're going after those who are trading.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e230	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e233	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. When the head of defence in Dagbladet today says that it will take several years to gain control of the economy in the defence, I will point to a system that can be strongly contributing to it, namely horizontal interaction, or internal invoicing, as we call it. That means that the different parts of the Defense bill each other for services. This includes, inter alia: that the military organisation of the defence pays rent to the defence building, which has given some absurd results. In Troms and Finnmark, armored cars stand outside and rust while garages are empty, and runways are cut at airstations because rents are paid per. meters. It's no wonder people shake their heads both inside and outside the defense. Who decides what rent to pay for, and if so, how much?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e244	Initially, I would like to say about what Sverre Dien says in the newspaper today, that he does not say that he will not get a fit on the defense's economy until 2007. He simply says that part of the processes will go on over the years. But at the same time, he says that his main goal, after he has now been the head of defense, is to gain control of the economy, that he has taken on it and started, and that it is already possible to record in some areas that there have been improvements, while in other areas, including wages, there are still considerable challenges. With regard to the issue of horizontal trade, there is something that the Storting has known for a long time, and the purpose of horizontal trade has been to get a proper picture of the cost. In the case of rents for defence buildings, what is being taken into account is that which has been taken into account since the last workers' party government, a so-called cost-effective rent, i.e. that the costs incurred by the defence, related to a construction, are also payable by the user of the construction or for that part of the aerodrome. But when that's said, we all know the obvious unfairness of interpretations of what is cost-effective rent. It is important that these two different agencies, the Defence Military Organisation and Defence Buildings, try to solve it locally through their local representatives, and if not successful, send it to their respective heads, who are the head of the Defence Building and the head of defence. I have not yet experienced that I have received individual items on my table that these two have not been able to solve. I also hope that the department will not deal with individual items related to rent, and that more attention will be paid, both locally and in the management of these two floors, to solving the bill of manifestly unreasonable renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e253	I thank you for your answer. I do not doubt – and let me stress it – that it was necessary to make over-exploitation of areas in the Defense, as much as other things, and that it was important to get a cost estimate. But the question is whether the internal billing system does not both create new bureaucracy and lead to new resource loss, and whether the defence has had the necessary apparatus to deal with this. Is it not also the case that a market in a monopolistic organization is being simulated here, and will it actually work? The market, of course, requires competition if it is to work. Does this not exacerbate the full scope of financial management control? My question is: Will the Council of State help to evaluate the internal billing system in the Defence and how it works?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e264	I think representative Marit Nybakk here puts his finger on something that's important, and that's challenging, that's the pricing you do when you use horizontal trade. I am absolutely sure that horizontal trade as a system leads to less resource loss than before, because it now has a concrete cost to order both maintenance tasks and operating resources from the FLO. At the same time, it requires a completely different thinking from the people involved, and it requires that you make friends with a customer/supplier attitude that will take some time to incorporate. With regard to the question of apparatus, I think that a lot of the challenges there are in turning to the new system. To date, whether horizontal trade can be introduced into a non-perfect market, the representative is faced with an important and difficult issue. That is why it is so important that the head of defence has a sentencing authority over the underlying arm of the Defence that does not agree on the correct pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e274	There will be three follow-up questions – first Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e277	I only have one question about invoicing. Is it also applicable to military shooting and drill fields? Should it be, for example, are full accounting rentals paid for the use of the Eastern Region? Will the rental be so high that the field can be unused? Is this sensible use of resources, Minister of Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e282	I fully agree with what is the intention of the representative of Mr Halvorsen. We can't get into the situation that we're obviously having unreasonable use of important shooting drill fields. Therefore, it is important that there is a dialogue on pricing, because it will always be an element of discretion over what is a cost-effective rent. Firefields must also be maintained, and the responsibility for this lies with Defence Buildings. In this, of course, there is a cost that has to be covered. But again, it is important that the head of defence and, if not, the head of defence, if you do not agree locally, agree on a price. If you don't, we're of course willing to set a price in the department. But I trust that adult people who are leaders of such large organizations will find appropriate solutions. Finally, if we had not introduced cost-effective rentals, we had not been able to phase out 2,000,000 m2 of buildings and installations that we no longer need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e296	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e299	Invoicing is one of a number of factors that make it difficult to get an overview and control of the defence economy, as well as a number of other factors, such as the changes in the FLO, the Gulf Programme and other issues we have been dealing with in recent times. On that basis, it is also interesting when the head of defence today suggests that it will take time before a person gets an overview and control. Just a few weeks ago, the Stortinget made a decision to oblige the Government to come back to Stortinget with a separate case of how to recover overall control of the defence economy. The cancellation notice on the additional consumption in 2004 is not that case. It was notified long before Stortinget made the decision I now referred to. My simple question is, When does the government intend to file such a case for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e306	I will first return to the quote from Dagbladet's interview with Sverre Dienn. What he says there is: ‘It’s the Riksrevision that determines when we have full control. But I realize that we have to work on this both this year and next year." It's not an eye-catching new thing. I have also said, not least in the dialogue with the Storting on the issues we have been dealing with, that some of the comments made by the Riksaudition actually relate to the subsequent phases of Project Golf, and that are well resolved only when these later phases are introduced. Having said that, I would like to say that of course it is the Government's intention to satisfy the needs of the Storting relative to information and case proposals. We have promoted one thing, a communication that is being discussed in the Defence Committee. We have announced that we will present another matter relating to any adjustments to the revised budget. If, in the dialogue with the Storting during the discussion of these two issues, we find out that there is a need for more, then of course we have the opportunity, both for the autumn and for the next spring, to present further questions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e320	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e323	This is basically about the possibility of financial control within the Defence Agency. In that article in the Newspaper today, the Defence Manager is asked the following question: ‘Do you not want full control of the economy before 2007?’ ‘It’s the Riksrevision that decides when we have full control’, the Chief of Defence replies. Does the Minister of Defense believe that it is the Riksrevision that determines when the Defense has full control? Will it mean that it is the Riksrevision that will in the future meet in the Storting on behalf of the Council of State when there are issues of financial control in the Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e332	Of course it's not like that. But it is important to stress the role of the National Audit Office in just highlighting shortcomings. The National Audit Office has a control system and a competence that no one else has in relation to the areas in the defence accounts that need improvement. Therefore, it is also so useful to have the annual review from the Riksrevision, where each year may be different comments that are followed up by the Defence. The Chief of Defence here refers to the fact that it is the National Auditor's office that approves accounts. We're not able to do that. It belongs to them, of course. But when that is said, I will again underline what Swearer Dien says in the article. Some of the comments that the Riksrevision has had, and that I have had in previous dialogue with the Stortinget, take a year to resolve – both what goes on understanding in the organisation related to the introduction of new systems, such as horizontal trade, and what goes on technical things, which will be solved in subsequent phases of the Gulf.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e339	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e342	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Barents Sea is an incredibly vulnerable fishing area and it is incredibly important for the fishing industry, which is one of Norway’s main industries. In connection with the exploration drilling in the Barents Sea, we have had three large discharges to the sea, despite the fact that the oil companies promised it would be zero emissions. At the same time, 39 HMS events have been reported by the Petroleum Authority further south, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea. They have also stated that they are skeptical of increasing activity in the Barents Sea. In the oil notification as the Stortinge treated in 2004, the Government said it would await the results of the planned exploration drilling before the announced new sites. Nevertheless, the Council of State has announced that we will have a 19th concession round for the distribution of new licences this summer. Has the Government changed its policy? Is zero emission to sea an absolute requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e352	Of course, the government has not changed its policy. As regards the Barents Sea and the possibilities for annual petroleum activities, the Government had a very thorough assessment of this through the ULB. A decision was taken in December 2003 to reopen the Barents Sea for annual petroleum activities. This was submitted to the Stortinget in May 2004 in its own notification of wholesale consumption. It was then that a majority in this Chamber – I record that SV was not among the majority – who concluded on the Government's position in this area. There are some areas of the Barents Sea South that are excluded from petroleum activities. It's a demarcated area. It's not the whole Barents Sea this is about, but it's the Barents Sea South, except for some areas. These are the coastal areas of Finnmark and Troms. It's also the polar front, the ice edge and the Tromsøflaket, to mention someone. These exclusions have been agreed by the Storting that there will be no petroleum activity in the coming years. So the government's policy has not changed in relation to this. We intend to announce the 19th round before the summer of 2005. We're not going to change it. Of course, in the future we will have to have zero emissions to the Barents Sea. The examples that the representative here mentions are some accidents that have occurred. The last one was February 21. It's something that you obviously take very seriously. In addition, other ministers, other ministries, which are constitutionally responsible in relation to the Petroleum Supervision and the SFT, are now assessing the latest release.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e363	I thank you for your answer. We are aware that the Barents Sea is a very vulnerable natural area. Now it is that the Christian People's Party had national meetings this weekend. It was adopted: ‘The Christian People's Party believes that oil extraction should not take place in vulnerable natural areas where environmental considerations indicate that oil extraction is irresponsible.’ This is a very clear speech. It cannot be said to be particularly positive for continued operations in the Barents Sea. Will the Christian People's Party's reorientation on this issue have implications for the government's policy in relation to the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e375	Now the Right Party, Left Party and Christian Party have been sitting together for almost four years. We have an ambition to continue, and we're going to be able to agree on the issues we've had with or different approaches to, in the future. As I said, the government has a policy in this area. We had a suggestion up. We did a very thorough investigation before we made our decision in December 2003, and there is nothing that has changed the government's policy on this issue. I also think it is important to stress that that policy has a broad support in the Stortinget. The country's top democratic authority has concluded on the policy of full-year petroleum activity in the Barents Sea South. Of course, the Government should focus on and contribute to progress. We all want the petroleum industry to pay particular attention to the special sensitive areas that we have in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e384	There will be three follow-up questions – first Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e387	SV has several times been given the bulk of the population to focus more on CO2 injection further south of Norway, just to avoid increased activity in the north. Yesterday, a report was submitted on this — the Council of State was present and heard — which was relatively negative, I thought, in relation to this. So here we see a government that pushes up the pace in the north, but one is not willing to do anything to increase the rate of extraction in the south, despite the fact that one has a mandate from Stortinget to do something active, among other things. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to increase extraction rates and to bring Norway up in the front when it comes to environmental technologies in this area. Cannot soon imagine what SV is into, and which SV will drive into a new red-green government, simply to participate in some sort of splinter layer to ensure that there is a field that uses CO2 as a pressure support in the North Sea, for example. Goldlfaks?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e402	Now it is not that the Council of State was present at the seminar that was held yesterday. It was actually the state councils that organized that seminar. It is also the case that a report was submitted that I will report back to Stortinget. The Oil Directorate was commissioned by the same department, from the same Council of State, in cooperation with a number of companies, to investigate the possibilities of using CO2 as an injection for increased extraction on Norwegian soil. That report has now been delivered. It shall be notified back in the revised budget, but the Government shall also come back with the manner in which it wishes to follow up this report. I think we agree that we need to increase the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. There's a strong commitment on the part of this government to having the spotlight on it. Today, the estimate is that the extraction rate is 46 pst, and the target is 50 pst. 1 pst. increased extraction will contribute to countless billions of revenues for the Norwegian State. So it's a very important and priority area. [[The President clubs.]] I am more uncertain about, and the report yesterday confirmed it, whether injection with increased CO2 can help increase this development in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e417	The council has a bell on the pulpit that shows the time. When the president clubs, you're supposed to stop. Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e422	Petroleum activity on Norwegian soil is subject to the most stringent health, environmental and safety requirements in the world. In other words, it's not the law that's in the way, but you sometimes see that the enforcement of it is like that. I therefore assume that the government has full focus on this and follows up, so that it is brought into order. Now, however, we see that on the Russian side in the Barents Sea it is being put up for significant petroleum activities, and they do not have the same health, environment and safety requirements as we have on the Norwegian side. Does the Council agree with me that petroleum activities on the Norwegian side of the Barents Sea can contribute to increased environmental focus on the Russian side, and does the Government have contact with the Russian authorities to influence environmental requirements there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e429	Firstly, the Government has an increased focus on companies complying with the requirements both in relation to discharges into the Barents Sea and in relation to the Norwegian base. It's a highly priority problem. But I think it's very important to stress that you can't guarantee that there's never going to be an accident. I think it's important to mention that here too. The authorities, including the Ministry of Oil and Energy, are in good contact with the Russian authorities in order to gain an understanding that we need to focus on perhaps having a common regime for the North. I have myself taken the initiative of an Arctic Summit to be held in the Churches this summer, with representation both from Russia, the EU and not least from the United States, in order to have a common dialogue on what is important in terms of future exploitation in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e436	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e439	I have an additional question. It is true that the Storting joined the government's policy of opening up the Southern Barents Sea. We have now experienced an accident with an oil rig. One of the reasons why the Storing joined was the principle of zero emissions. Then my question is, is there an upper limit to the government's policy in this area? Will the permit for the oil rig in the Southern Barents Sea be re-evaluated when there has been a discharge of 1,600 litres of hydraulic oil? Where does the upper limit go?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e447	As I said, the government has taken this policy into account in the Stortinget. It's right that we have a requirement that it should be zero emissions. I think the different companies are working very hard to be able to contribute to the absence of discharges in the Barents Sea. It is also the case that the SFT and not least the Petroleum Control now have a review of the accidents that have occurred and will come back in a short time with a statement to the authorities about what has actually happened. In the case of the last accident for Statoil that has taken place, the drilling has been stopped until a briefing has been given by the SFT and the Petroleum Authority on the further work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e452	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e455	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. As we travel along the shoreline, we see that the boat owners now get their leisure boats on the water. That means it's approaching summer and an active time at sea. In February, the Stortinget discussed a proposal to introduce mandatory boat driver training. The background was the signals we had received from the police, the Rescue Company and non-governmental organisations, among others. Norwegian People's Aid, about a lot of crazy traffic on the sea and obvious deficiencies in seafaring knowledge. The government parties in Stortinget did not support the proposal, but felt that awareness campaigns and more police at sea would solve the problem of lack of knowledge. However, I think the Minister of Justice had a somewhat nuanced view. He also said that he thought he would come back to the debate on compulsory boat driver training on a later occasion. Among other things, he said he would follow closely the developments and assess the views he would get from the police. I have now been informed by the press that the Maritime Directorate has added the inquiry into boat driver training. What are the views of the Council of State on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e464	I'm familiar with all of these points of view. The representative referred from what happened in Stortinget is absolutely correct. Now it's like I'm not constitutionally responsible for the directorate to which this was referred. It is also quite right that I want to follow along and keep myself informed about what the police are reporting to me. I do. At the time that I feel that it is right and appropriate to do something about it, I will also take the initiatives that are necessary, first of all, of course in the Government, but also in other ways. So I don't have anything to add to what I said that time. But I'm not subtracting anything, and I'm not adding anything to the excellent statements that the representative Fossli referred to from the debate she was now summarizing, both what the majority stood for, which I naturally follow, and the reflections that I put in, and that I felt that they were basically listening to, across the party boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e471	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government parties said that more police and attitude campaigns would solve the problems. What steps have been taken in this work this summer to follow up on what government parties said?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e478	It's a question that I'm going to include in the dialogue I have with the Police Directorate. We have it evenly and regularly. But at least I can take the opportunity, independent of the representative and myself, to encourage all the boatmasters who had to listen to this debate to stop the sport of placing their small children with life jackets in front of the boat, because it can be real macabre scenes if you fall from there. At least that kind of folk culture can be used to mark this debate clearly and clearly. So I don't think all the world's police are able to train people about this, maybe not a boat driver's training, and then we're beyond what was the subject when the debate was held in Stortinget. But in the name of public information, I think it's right of me to raise that very theme. I'll take it with me in my dialogue with the Police Directorate. It follows from the answer I gave to the first question from the representative, and it follows from what in its time was also raised when the matter was up in Stortingen, to which the representative referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e485	There will be two follow-up questions – first Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e488	I am pleased that the Council of State is so engaged in such a serious issue as the wild man driving at sea. When we discussed the proposal for mandatory boat driver training, the whole Stortinget agreed that something had to be done about the unwise driving we have at sea. However, the majority opposed compulsory boat driver training and felt that this had to be combated with awareness-raising work and more police at sea. The evaluation of the police reform has shown that the police have become more effective in combating organised crime, but at the same time it shows that the police have not improved in terms of being available to the public, either to land or to water. My challenge and my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now ensure that we also get a police at sea in the concentrations of large population groups we have along our coasts in the summer, and that the police both contribute attitude-creating and make sure to combat the wilderness journey we have at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e499	I don't go in and take operational responsibility for the police – it's here in the capital or in our coastal areas. But as I say, when I bring something into a governance dialogue with the Police Directorate, I do. We have a system that can listen, learn and follow. What is my main focus, which came up with an additional question to me from the representative Ellingsen and was reinforced by the representative Hagen earlier today, and which I want to confirm, is the fight against all kinds of everyday crime. It's for the police. So I know that in many ways the police are very capable of combating what could lead to accidents. We know the police are good on the roads. I am quite sure that the police districts involved in this work will also take it with them when it comes to maritime traffic. At least at sea, I've made my contribution by making sure that we get proper pro-mille limits, which I think are quite crucial. They give proper room for the dowsing skirt, but no more for anything. Then you should rather run the yacht, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e506	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e509	Obviously, many people should be listening to this debate today, for it is a matter of good advice here. It does not really matter that a 16-year-old can freely drive a boat with several hundred horsepowers in 50-70 knots, while the same 16-year-old must have a certificate to drive a moped with five horsepowers and a maximum of 50 km per hour. In the light of the experience gained with the number of accidents, the increase in the speed and speed of the boats, and the high level of unwitting driving, more and more are now in favour of mandatory boat drivers' training. This applies, inter alia, to: Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation, Rescue Company and Maritime Committees. This also includes the police's maritime service. In Sweden, this is now under investigation, and everything indicates that the Swedes are going to support this. An increasing number of EU countries are also demanding a boat licence. This may lead to the exclusion of Norwegians without a boat licence from international waters. The question is then whether the Council of State will accept such a requirement if other countries do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e519	The fact that things are not at stake can hardly be characterised as a parliamentary expression. I think we've been in that particular polemic once before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e522	But apprehending might be in a parliamentary way. Taking a grip here is, of course, about more people having to do it together. It is a matter of a College of Government having to do so, and I do so, of course, in relation to my colleagues. When I then signaled – as a responsible Norwegian citizen and with confidence on behalf of Norwegian citizens as Minister of Justice – what I did, and which was excellently referred to in the first post, I mean that. Of course, I'm going to follow up on what's happening in other countries, and I'm also going to follow up on what the police are reporting to me. When I say that, I mean it. At the moment that I have an action to put forward, it will be duly demonstrated to the public. The representative can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e531	There's a pretty big difference between the handles and the grip, but we get to get back to another time. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e536	Today's VG says it's reading that hundreds of orders must end as a result of last year's billion coins. This is a statement by one of the leaders of the Norwegian Officers’ Federation, who points out that this is a command with a high level of competence, which is described as the base mountain in the Norwegian army. Is it the case that additional consumption in 2004 has already been taken into account? It is justified that directives have come from a higher level of defence. At the same time, we know that until the autumn, a new command will be implemented in the Defence Force. Is it the right resource use to give up good command with good competence and at the same time implement new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e543	I would like to start by addressing the latest issue raised by the representative Width, namely the introduction of a departmental order, which is central to this new four-year period of defence 2005-2008. Today we have three categories of command. One is a departmental order, which is a whole new system. It is a slightly longer-term contract order. We also have the short-term contract order, and then we have permanent employees. The concern that Width expresses here, I share so far, because I record that in the downsizing requirement set by the Stortinget, of 5,000 men, there may be a tendency in the Defence Organisation to place greater emphasis on downsizing on the contractual order side in relation to professionals. It's something that the head of defense and the defense are responsible for making a good solution. The aim was just to take part in the contract order and turn them into a departmental order, so that you could sit longer in the jobs, and where you could also develop skills. I am aware that we have already appointed the first cases of the departmental order. At the same time, I would like to remind you of what I wrote about in the letter to the Group of the Progressive Alliance on 1 April, that it is not such that non-reversible measures should be taken to advance any cuts made by the Government, or the Stortinget, in revision. What is, on the other hand, the Chief of Defence’s mandate is that, in order to maintain the budget adopted for 2005, which was agreed between the Government and the Progress Party, he must, of course, ensure that the activities he organises and the number of staff he has are within the agreed budgetary framework. So here the authority is the head of defence himself, but there is no incentive on the part of the department to reduce the number of contract orders as a gunshot of the revised treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e552	It is good and reassuring to hear that no measures have already been taken to save money on the 2005 budget to cover additional consumption in 2004. It is good that the Council of State confirms this. Now she writes correctly in the same letter she referred to, that she has already asked the head of defense to take note that it might happen. If that happens, the Storting decides that over-exploitation in 2004 will be included in the budget in 2005, the Council of State will know well what the Progress Party believes about it. If that happens, the defense will have to cover $1 billion in the second half of 2005. Then I have to ask, what will happen to the defense? Will it be added again? Would you like to stop all activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e559	Here I fully agree with the representative, Width, that it would have significant negative consequences if the entire consumption were to be covered. Therefore, it is important that the proposal of the Government is revised, adapted to the need to take care of the operational capability of the Defence and our obligations in NATO. I would like to stress that it is also important that the Progress Party, which has been our budgetary partner for 2005, is also included in a budgetary dialogue with the government parties in order to seek agreement on budgetary revisions. What was underlined in my letter of 1 April to the Group of the Progressive Alliance was that the head of defence was not going to implement non-reversible measures to pre-empt the revision. But that could of course mean that some of those who want clarity about them, for example. may be hired as a command for the harvest, waiting for the clearance to be obtained after the examination of the revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e568	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e571	Many of us are concerned about what is in the paper today that so many orders should stop, including: to cover up the billion excess we've had. What many of us are thinking about is what's going to happen to the service the defense is ordered by the Storting. With a smaller number of orders, you might think that it would be difficult to do the service that the Defense is going to do, both at home and outside. I am thinking about foreign operations. I also think of those who are employed in the defense, and the uncertainty they feel for their job, for the extent and for what they belong to. What does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e578	If it is a group with which I have a great deal of understanding and compassion, it is the defence staff. When Stortinget decided that the defence would be manned down by 5,000 men, it was a decision that also the Progress Party was behind, it was of course to expect that this would have consequences for individuals and for individual families. Therefore, I would also like to say that the way in which the defence and defence employees have dealt with this is impressive. Efforts have been made to have sensible take-off packages, so that you can be helped into a different career, and they have tried to do so in a way that is consistent with the defence's need to maintain and actually improve their operational capabilities, which has been widely achieved. In addition, I would like to say that putting in place measures to keep the budget that has been adopted is within the defence manager's mandate. It is not a matter of pre-empting decisions in the Grand Duchy relating to the revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e587	Rita Tveiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e591	For the Labour Party's part, it is important that we get the work done by the Department Commander. We look forward to that process continuing as he is planned. In connection with that, I would like to ask the Council of State if it is not natural that the contract order we have today be assessed in that context in order to be able to proceed further. There are staff who have been trained and who are most likely to be used. I assume that there is not a full basis for the turmoil that is being brought to squares in the VG today. Then I have a small question attached to the setting that was dealt with in Stortinget, that the organisations of the members should be involved in the processes that will lead to who is going to continue as a departmental order, and what kind of guidelines should apply to those who are going to have these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e600	I can confirm that in the processes in which the defence is involved, in identifying which groups are to be staffed, the employees' organisations are included under the law and the contract. That's the way it should be, and that's the way it is. At the same time, big-time representative Rita Tveiten is in a dilemma, and I fully agree that it is the contract order that in many ways constitutes the most important group in order to be able to place a departmental order. The contract order has been an incredibly useful defence resource. There have been young operational leaders who have been valuable. It was precisely to give them a better relationship that we wanted to put in place departmental orders, so that they could sit both 10 and 15 years and with a proper educational package at the end. However, there will of course be a potential contrast of interest among defence employees, i.e. permanent employees, and the contract order for the positions to be taken in order to reach the 5 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e607	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e610	Based on the answers given by the Minister of Defence, it appears that no action has been taken to recover excess consumption in 2004 until now in 2005 and that any such action for the 2004 additional consumption will take place in the second half of 2005 or through proposals for additional appropriations in revised form. That's what the pressman says today in VG. Can we see that, in 2004 as a whole, additional consumption will be proposed for the revision process? Or can we perceive it as happening through cuts in the second half of 2005? And to what extent does there exist a room for action to collect parts of that billion for 2004, when, in addition, we are going to cut down on the budget of the year, because, after all, it is likely to have to be over-dimensioned in relation to what is assumed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e617	Of course, I do not want to pre-empt the Government's proposals in the revised version. They come when the revision comes. But I would also like to say that there is one important thing that the head of defence is required to do, and that is to ensure that the entry speed of the defence in 2005 is slowed down, because the increase in consumption in 2004 revealed, in some areas, that there had been a larger and more expensive activity than the budgetary assumptions. In order to avoid the cracking of the 2005 budget, the head of defence thus has the power to take a number of measures — in order to avoid a recurrence of what happened in 2004. Of course, there is also an opportunity to look at the contract order, etc. That being said, the head of defence is also assigned to prepare any major decisions relating to the revision, but not through non-reversible measures. Both investment and other activities can be slowed down once the Storting has reached its conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e626	We're going to the last main question today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e629	My question goes to the Council of State Widvey. I will follow up the debate on the vulnerable Barents Sea and zero emissions. The Council of State was a little amusing at the Central Party's expense after our national meeting, when we decided that zero emissions would be required to the sea in connection with oil operations in the Barents Sea. You're welcome. We already have zero emissions in the Barents Sea. You can't go beyond zero,' said the Council of State. But it was before 12 April, that day 1.6 tons of hydraulic oil ran out into the Barents Sea. The centre party believes that this discussion is important, but not simple. The question is whether zero emissions to the sea should only be a pleasant vision, or whether it should be a reality that we should actually relate to. As we know, the oil company Eni now has an application for drilling in the Goliath field in the Barents Sea South. Here they seek to release large quantities of boreholes at sea. And then my question is, does this bring trueness? Is such emissions in line with the Government’s zero emission vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e638	The government's policy is firm, including in the case of zero-emission requirements in the Barents Sea. I want to draw attention to what is stated in the big message that was promoted in the spring of 2004. The conditions under which the petroleum activity is to be carried out are as follows: ‘For all-year petroleum activity in the area, the Government has made provision for the non-emission to sea of water produced, borehole or borehole sludge in normal operation. Normal operation means all planned activities, including exploration; ‘all except accidental emissions’.’» The emissions of hydraulic oil — mentioned by several of the respondents earlier today — from Eirik Raude on 12 April 2005 were such an accidental release. The requirement for zero emissions in the Barents Sea is established. But as I said, we can't guarantee that it can't happen accidentally, and what's happened in the Barents Sea is such an accidental discharge. Of course, the government is taking these emissions very seriously, and it is also investigating, both in relation to Statoil and in relation to Ocean Rig. These examinations must be completed before the conclusions can be reached, if Statoil is to be allowed to continue this drilling. As I said earlier, it is the Petroleum Authority, and also the SFT, which is responsible for this and which reports to the authorities, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e652	The councils were concerned about what was going on, and I understand to the extent that difference. My follow-up is: Eni, as far as we're aware, seeks to release a total of 950 tons of borechax from Goliath. In other words, they are asking to release 72 pst. of all the boreholes produced in connection with that drilling. This is the planned activity. With the exception of the top hole on the oil wells, it is now fully possible to remove the discharge of borechax. If it is to be achieved, one cannot first grant permits for large-cax emissions in order to achieve the zero-emission target – if it is to be established. What Eni really does is define up to two thirds of the well as a top hole, and then they say this is going to be hard to remove. Does the Council of State consider such a definition to be reasonable? Will the Government permit such an emission?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e661	It is not that the Council of State can deal with applications for emissions. It is also not my constitutional responsibility; SFT therefore falls within the remit of the Minister for the Environment. But on a general basis, I have to say that the government's demand is firm in terms of the zero-emission targets in the Barents Sea. It is a requirement that, in normal operation, discharges to the sea – as specified here – of produced water, drilling fluid or borehole are not to be carried out. I want to draw attention to this, because it may sound as if the companies are not taking it seriously. But the SFT said in September last year: ‘The petrol industry is on its way to achieving the objective of zero environmentally hazardous emissions at sea by the end of 2005.’» After all, there is a positive development going on, and I think we will also be taking it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e673	There will be two follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e677	I have to say that we are standing in a remarkable situation if Eni is to be allowed to release three-quarters of all the boreholes they produce in connection with drilling, while the Government of the Stortinget says it is to stick to the zero-emission goal in the Barents Sea. The type of emissions currently sought by Eni will be three times as high as that recommended by the SFT in its report, which was the basis for the reopening of the Barents Sea South by the Storting. Suffering if the Council of State does not want to deal with matters here, you have to be able to ask whether the Council of State agrees that what Eni is applying for is entirely in agreement with the information that the Government gave to the Stortning in connection with the Barents Sea South. And then the question becomes: if the government doesn't want to stand here and deal with the case, can she say something concrete about what the government intends to do to actually achieve the goal of zero emissions? Is there anything else it can do than say no to the type of emission permit applied for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e686	As I tried to say to the previous questioner, and as I can now underline, the claim is firm. The government has not changed any policy in this field. We expect the decisions taken by the Government, which also have a great anchor in the Stortinget, to be followed up. I do not want to and cannot decide on the applications that are there, except to say that no exemption will be granted for any applicants for emissions. The rules are to be followed, and I assume that the authorities – although it is the constitutional responsibility of another State Council – follow up on the requirements of normal operation: it shall not be the discharge to sea of water produced, drilling fluid or borehole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e694	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e697	I am pleased that one is clear that the demands are firm, because the applications that are now being made are contrary to what the Stortingeet decided when a majority opened up for exploration and all-year petroleum operations in the Barents Sea South. Then I hear the council says we can't guarantee that we don't get accidents. There are not many drillings that have happened in winter, but we have had three events – one in part serious – where the emission quantity was 1,600 times the initial permit. If it is that we have to live with that type of incident, with exceedances of 1600 times the emission permit, because we can't guarantee anything, does that mean that the government will accept going from zero emissions to some discharge in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e707	I have referred to what the Government's demand for zero emissions implies. This has a wide lashing in Stortinget. I quoted what the big message said, what that meant. I allow myself to quote the last part of it again: ‘Normal operation means all planned activities, including exploration activities; ‘all except accidental emissions’.’» I also believe that the representative agrees with me that it is impossible for anyone, even with a very great political will – and wish – to say that there can be some guarantee that there will never be an accident. I think it's important to underline that, and that you have a policy that you should have a very strict claim. I expect the companies to comply, but I can't give any guarantees that there can't be any accident in this respect in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e717	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e723	There will be a few changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in that context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 7, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e740	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘The production part of orthopaedic footwear is put up for tender. As a result, orthopaedic shoes are now mainly to be produced in Lithuania. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the estimated savings in this. How will the Council of States be able to meet the need for user proximity and the necessary competences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e749	Let me first point out that there has been a clear prerequisite for the introduction of the tender procedure that the offer to users should not be impaired. Consequently, only the production part of orthopaedic footwear was put up for tender and not the user-related work carried out by the orthopaedic workshops. There are today more than 20 orthopaedic workshops spread throughout the country. These are the workshops the users deal with in order to adapt their shoes. Three of the workshops are co-located with an orthopaedic footwear manufacturer. According to the Rikstrøgdeverket, there has only been an exceptional need or desire to travel to such a co-located workshop. Even in the case of complex problems, it is provided that this can be handled by a local orthopaedic workshop. The Swedish Works Agency has stated that they have not received direct complaints from the users or the orthopaedic workshops that indicate that the current system does not meet the requirements for quality and the relationship with users. The so-called remote production of orthopaedic footwear is not new, nor can it be said that it has arisen as a result of the invitation to tender for orthopaedic footwear. Since the beginning of the 1980s, the orthopaedic industry in Norway itself has followed the practice of targeting local orthopaedic workshops, creating models, etc. by the feet of the patients. The actual production of the footwear has occurred or is happening elsewhere. The introduction of a tender for orthopaedic footwear has not changed this practice. When tenders are published at the production stage, the Rikstrygdeverket informs that at the same time a fixed price is agreed with the individual orthopaedic workshops for what is called pre-work for footwear production. The processing shall include the work of the local workshop on measuring, modelling/reading and last adjustment/adaptation. As mentioned above, this does not represent a break in the division of labour to which the industry itself has provided and practised over the last decade. Nor does the Rikstrøgdeverket have any indication of any reduction in the competence at this stage of dissemination. The Rikstrøgdeverket has concluded agreements with four Norwegian producers of orthopaedic footwear, one of which has a subcontractor in Lithuania. That orthopaedic footwear is mainly to be produced in Lithuania is therefore not correct. It has been claimed in the media that the production of footwear in Lithuania will lead to a longer delivery time and thus a waiting time for the user. The supplier has committed himself in relation to a delivery time through the agreement with the Rikstrygdeverket. This would result in a breach of the contract if the delivery is not made under contract. It will monitor closely the implementation of the obligations laid down in the contract. Furthermore, it has been claimed that an additional cost will be incurred as a result of the assumed need for adjustment/adaptation of footwear produced in Lithuania. According to the Rikstrygdeverket, this also does not lead to correctness, since it has been agreed on the prices of the product and processed. It will follow closely the fulfilment of the obligations contained in the agreements concluded. In addition, RTV has assured me that the need for user proximity has been met by ensuring that users are provided with services and follow-up in local orthopaedic workshops. Users also choose which orthopaedic workshop they use. The consideration of users and the soundness of the offer is central. The Rikstrøgdeverket has stated that they will summarise experiences through their own user survey during this year. As far as the competence in this area is concerned, I have not received any indication that this has been endangered by the introduction of tenders at the production level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e773	I thank you for the answer, but of course I am not reassured. Those in need of orthopaedic footwear must occasionally, according to the TV programme «Fire Point» on 19 April, test the footwear a seven-eight times. These are people who have trouble walking. That's the millimetre accuracy that's required here. I am very pleased that the Council of State now confirms that it is the best of users to be in focus, but it is closely related to the expertise that exists, among other things. in an orthopaedic manufacturing workshop at Hamar. There are 14 employees who have this competence and who provide services to the very best of their ability. I must again be allowed to ask if the Council of State believes that there is too little documented savings in this tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e784	There is no indication that the savings agreed will not be real. What is crucial for me is that the way we organise this uplift is not to have a negative impact on users in the sense that the offer is not going to be fair. That is why I have assured myself that the Swedish Works Agency will follow closely the quality requirements contained in the agreement, that they will follow-up through a summary and a user survey – to check whether this is actually the case. I would also like to ask the Health Authority, as independent supervision, to follow up and evaluate this offer, so that it is sound for the users. I therefore believe that the representative should be reassured.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e789	It is well possible that I should be, but of course I am not. In my opinion, the best solution must be to complete the tendering procedure and include orthopaedic footwear as a complete orthopaedic tool in the existing negotiations in line with other orthopaedic aids. We have prostheses and ortrosies that people also depend on to measure, and that requires closeness to the users. You can probably guarantee deliveries within the agreed time, but footwear has to be produced with millimetres of accuracy. There are people depending on, and the Lymphoedem Association has also stated how precise the footwear needs to be. Therefore I ask: Isn't it better that this production is in Norway, where there is competence, and where is there a real proximity to the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e794	As I explained, agreements have been concluded with four manufacturers, one of whom has a subcontractor in Lithuania. That is, it's production in Norway, and we have over 20 orthopaedic workshops across the country. It is at these orthopaedic workshops that adaptation is taking place. Contact with the manufacturer will be maintained through the orthopaedic workshops spread throughout the country and, if necessary, also by the presence of representatives coming out and meeting users. What must be decisive both for the representative Fallen and for me should be that it is a good and fair offer to users – not where production is, or what jobs it is, but that it is a good and fair offer. It will follow closely, and to further assure me that I will go to the step of asking the Health Authority, as independent supervision, to assess its safety. And then I think this should be reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e803	I have the following questions for our honourable Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Whales municipality shall apply for the establishment of a pole sale in the municipality and hope it can be opened by 2006. Sale will contribute to the reduction of trade leakage, to the ring-fencement of the commercial industry and to the improvement of the availability of the lawful circulation of alcoholic goods. Is it possible that the Whaler municipality can be taken into account when the allocation of new pole sales is planned?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e812	The Alcohol Act specifies a clear division of tasks between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the municipalities and the Vinmonopolet in terms of localisation issues. The Alcohol Act empowers the Ministry to fix the maximum number of appropriations for the Vinmonopolet on a national basis and a regional distribution of the sales. However, under the alcohol law system, the monopoly of wine is the one that specifically assesses the municipalities in which it is to be applied for, and it is the local authority that decides whether to grant it. It is not within my jurisdiction under the alcohol law to address specific issues relating to the location of new sales. In Ot.prp. No 86 for 2003-2004 on the Law amending the Alcohol Act, it was proposed that the Ministry’s practice to draw up a four-year country plan be terminated. The Social Committee supported the proposal, while stressing the need to continue to monitor the rate of development and the regional distribution. The majority further pointed to the importance of the ability of municipalities to comment on retail establishments and the need for the Ministry to ensure that the Vinmonopolet establishes consultation practices. I assume that the wine monopoly will properly balance different desires and interests within the framework of the alcohol law, and I will ensure continued control of the rate of expansion and regional distribution as required by the law. I can mention that on 6 April this year the Vinmonopolet sent out a letter of consultation to all the municipalities of the country, explaining the framework and criteria for setting up sales for the period 2005-2007. The wine monopoly asks in this letter that municipalities which intend to meet the establishment criteria send written submissions to the Vinmonopolet by 10 July this year. On this basis, the municipality of whales can assess the criteria and express their opinion on the Vinmonopolet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e825	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As we see it, it is positive that this country plan for the geographical distribution of new pole shops has now been brought to an end, that the municipalities individually have greater influence on the possibilities of commenting, that the location is more consistent with the alcohol policy in each municipality, and that, of course, by municipal decision, the municipality manages the concrete location. Obviously, prior to any establishment, a market assessment must be carried out, where, as I see it, a new sale is based on operational economic criteria. Whales have visited very many tourists in the summer, and there are many cottage owners that frequent the area. So even though the final decision is the Vinmonopolet, my follow-up question is: if a market assessment is positive, the municipality's wish is a localization and one satisfies or meets the criteria set – I refer to the letter of 6 April as mentioned by the Council of State – will it not strengthen the municipality's position and have a stronger influence on the valuations made by the Vinmonopolet?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e832	I have not entered and evaluated the municipality of Whaler in particular on the basis of the criteria of the Vinmonopolet. I don't think it's right that I do that either, but based on what Hedstrøm now says, I'm absolutely convinced that the Municipality of Hyler will be able to document how they stand in relation to the criteria of the Vinmonopolet, and thus provide the best basis for the decision that the Vinmonopolet is set to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e837	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I just have an additional comment. Eastfold has special problems with illegal alcohol imports, alcohol smuggling, and we also have a significant borderline leakage. It is very short distance from the whaler to the Stroemstad boat way, and it is clear that a location on the whaler will be able to reduce the borderline leakage of alcoholic goods and perhaps also help to reduce alcohol smuggling. I hope, then, that the monopoly of wine can take account of Eastfold's special situation in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e844	The comment does not cause any further comments from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e853	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In relation to rescue operations of a different nature, the relationship is one of the main criteria. Today's Sea King rescue helicopters used the mobile system NMT 450 as a means of communication for the main rescue stations. Since this network is closed, you need an alternative. The plan has been to get a satellite phone instead of the old system. It's approaching high season at sea, with the challenges it brings. What will the Council of State do to ensure that rescue helicopters receive satellite telephones as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e862	Our rescue helicopters are equipped with a variety of means of communication suitable for different purposes. The Sea King helicopters used the NMT 450 as an important connection channel for direct connections from and to the main rescue stations. The experience after the NMT 450 was dropped is that in several cases it has been difficult for the main rescue services to get in touch with the helicopter while it is on mission. The problem is, among other things: whereas it is now necessary for the main rescue services to use precious time to search through several alternative means of communication before possible contact is made; The exchange of information which should not be available to the public has also been made difficult. Norway’s topography and extent make radio communication demanding at the low flight altitudes and isolated areas in which rescue helicopters often operate. Therefore, for several years, the defence has assessed alternative interconnector equipment and has gradually come to the conclusion that a satellite-based system is the best option. It is therefore decided that the NMT 450 should be replaced by a modern satellite-based system. This measure is budgeted for the current year, 2005 and originally provided for its completion during May. Defence met challenges related to the practical installation of the equipment and delivery times. I've been informed that most emergency helicopters will have a new satellite connection during the summer. All helicopters should be equipped during the autumn. In the meantime, all other communication equipment is working as before. One example is the coastal radio with its good coverage. The main challenge is domestic operations, where one now relies more than in the past on the health radio network, short-wave radio and air traffic services channels. This provides a useful temporary solution, but is not satisfactory in the long run. When new, modern satellite-based communication equipment is completed during the autumn, Sea King and the main rescue centres will have better connectivity than ever. This will be even better when rescue helicopters become part of the new emergency network.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e879	I thank you for the answer so far. I think it is good and reassuring to hear that the Minister of Justice still has ambitions that we should be even better in an area where we are actually quite good, both on a European basis and perhaps on a global basis. It is clear that communication is one of the key concepts for success in rescue operations. I think the choice of satellite telephone is a sensible and good measure. The rescue service here is good. We have many good employees, and we have different devices, but as I said, we are also vulnerable to the quality of the individual elements. Now that we're getting new satellite-based communication installed, I think it's good. By extension, I want to challenge the Minister of Justice whether he believes that what we have now, and in the summer months, will be good enough. Will the Minister of Justice be comfortable with the equipment to be available this summer with regard to the tasks to be performed by the rescue services and the challenges provided by the Norwegian people to the rescue service?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e888	My first answer showed that the ambition was to land earlier. What happened was that the defense met unexpected technical challenges. We have now been informed that the defense has solved the technical problems, and we have also been assured that the installation of the equipment is of the highest priority. Therefore, as it now exists, the plan is that five helicopters, i.e.: one helicopter on each base shall have a new satellite connection during the summer and all helicopters should be equipped during September. In addition to that, I have commented on the situation that is temporary – on the one hand we can use the coastal radio in coastal areas and, on the other hand, the health network, the short-wave network, etc. inward countries. As a temporary solution, I believe it will last, but it does not last as a long-term solution. Therefore, of course, my department has had a pressure against the Defense from the moment we realized that they had met unexpected challenges. We have a pressure on it, because it's right, as the representative Ellingsen says, that we have a good rescue service, it holds a good standard. Keeping it is very important. It goes on reliability and trust. And making it better, which we actually have ambitions about with better technology, we do agree that just is a plus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e899	I thank you again for the answer, which I think is positive. I assume that I can understand the Minister of Justice there that sometimes it can be a challenge when the tool is located in a department other than your own, even if you have an overall professional and political responsibility. Therefore, I find it reassuring to hear that you have a click on your ‘sub-supplier’ if I can use that term without being ugly to someone here – I think it sounds good. Clearly, the Storting has expectations for the ministry. There are expectations for the different departments to do the job on behalf of our common ambitions. The quality of each stage is crucial for success or lack of success, while the responsibility lies clearly with the Minister of Justice in this area. It would be tempting to ask: is the Minister of Justice comfortable with the system as it is now, where you actually become dependent on others even if you have a clear political responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e908	I have responded that we have a solution that we can defend temporarily, but not in the longer term. The relationship with the ‘sub-supplier’ is definitely the best, but when the subcontractor meets an unexpected technical challenge, I have to respect it. My impression is that they have really made a great effort to get this in place, because the defense puts its honor and honour in that service to work. So the subcontractor we have the best relationship to. But when the subcontractor meets challenges that are beyond both the subcontractor's and my control area, we need to keep an eye on getting the ideal and right thing in place as quickly as possible, and that in the meantime we can make sure that we have temporary solutions. It is clear that the problem with some of the temporary solutions is that we can have difficult communication with sensitive information. But I think that's the force majeure, that's force majeure. Then we have to take advantage of the possibilities we have: the coastal radio, the health network, the corrugated network is there. I believe it will last for a while, but it will not last for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e922	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Recently, there have been several cases in which prisoners have died after overdose. The drug problem is very complex, but when there is no power to reduce, not to mention prevention, drug trafficking in prisons, what measures will civil society take to prevent trafficking? How does the Council of State view this problem, and will enhanced measures be taken to at least reduce this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e931	First of all, I would like to say that any death caused by overdose, in prison and where else it might take place is one too much. Responses to drug abuse must be directed towards the whole chain, from cultivation and production to prevention measures to prevent new recruitment for abuse, to the treatment of drug users and to the implementation of penalties. The police shall concentrate their efforts on the backers. The creation of CATCH, which has subsequently entered New Kripos, has made police work more efficient. This results in large quantities of drug seized. Harm-reduction services to the most deprived drug users, such as drug injection rooms and drug-assisted rehabilitation inside and outside prison, can help reduce drug-related crime, overdose deaths and drug abuse inside and outside prison walls. The control and rehabilitation work in prisons was reinforced by the new Penal Code. The country-wide survey ‘Levekyear among prisoners’, from 2004, shows that about 60 pst. by all prisoners can be defined as heavy drug users before entering prison. Recent years have seen a trend towards less abuse within the walls. This is due to increased and more targeted control activity and increased efforts with rehabilitation measures. There are very extensive control measures in prisons, both for prisoners and visitors. This applies, for example: drug dog use, visitor checks, searches and visits. Cooperation between the criminal services and the police places emphasis on the need for an exchange of information between the two departments. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are now making a joint circular on the distribution of responsibilities for prisoners and convicted drug users, between criminal services, health services and social services. Co-operation is to ensure that prisoners with a need for treatment receive follow-up during detention, during the release phase and outside society after a final judgment. Coordination teams will be set up in 2005 in all major prisons. Russ teams shall have a specific responsibility for information and coordination of drug work in prisons and take initiatives to develop their skills in this area. During the spring, the government will promote an odelsting proposal which will provide the basis for the establishment of a drug programme with judicial control under the drug court model in Ireland and Scotland. The aim of this scheme is to provide a rehabilitation service as an alternative to prison for heavy drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e957	I thank you for your answer. It has been suggested that lawyers and other law enforcement personnel have contributed to the trafficking of drugs in prisons. Furthermore, it has been claimed that there is a problem that lawyers and others in the judiciary and in the prison system are being pressured or threatened with such involvement. As is known, the death penalty is not allowed in Norway. How does the Council of State view this problem, and what will be done to prevent threats from frightening people in justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e968	I have no general knowledge that lawyers act as they said here. But we have, as I said, a reinforced visitation control. And I think you could say, if you're going to cut into your leg, that all in all, the prisons act as effective detoxification for a lot of people. But it's clear that the biggest problem is before and after. That's why I also stressed it in the answer to the representative Bastesen. It doesn't help if you're detoxified in prison, if there's no follow-up. The second problem, which we have had some tragic examples of, is that there have not been good enough cooperation practices between health services in prison and those in prison. That's why we focus on getting the circular as I mentioned, so that there won't be any watertight bulkheads. Because you can't give away health information without consent, and I think that if you use the consent rule, an inmate will make sure that prison staff know about a drug abuse, so that you can, for example, use it. does not receive an adverse combination of medicines. These measures, in total, are precisely designed to improve life and to help prevent the overdose deaths caused by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e979	I thank you again for the answer. I have an additional question: Several have called for the establishment of visitor accommodation with physical barriers between prisoners and guests. It is also proposed that each prison should have its own drug dog. How does the Council of State view this proposal, and will special physical arrangements be in place to prevent direct contact between prisoners and persons outside prison who meet the prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e990	In addition to the control, we have different reconciliation regimes. In the strictest reconciliation regimes, there's probably little contact. But people son under different conditions. Some sons are heavy and harsh because they belong to that type of criminal – and then we unfortunately have to do it this way. This is how society must protect itself. Then it's the other thing that zones under completely different conditions. The biggest group we're talking about here is people who are struggling hard, and who we have to deal with a combination of measures in collaboration between criminal services, health authorities and others. Our control measures are there. Of course, I'm going to see if they can get better, but they've been intensified. We use dogs -- I've seen the dogs -- and it's clear that they're quite effective. So this whole control system, which I took up in the first answer to the representative of Bastesen, is intensified. But I have to stress that if we're going to have any chance at helping people, we're going to have to get even better cooperation between health services both before atonement, under atonement and after atonement. Then we might be able to prevent some tragedies. For the representative and I share the grief about what is happening in such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1005	This question, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1008	I have the following questions: ‘Only a few of the Norwegian films that will be premiered in 2005 have female filmmakers behind them. This is a problem of democracy and justice, but it also means that women's resources are not used properly enough in Norwegian films. Several female filmmakers will ensure a greater diversity of film stories. The Swedish Minister of Culture proposes a target of 40 pst. by the means of female filmmakers within 5 years. How will the Council of State ensure that more women are allowed to make films in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1017	The Minister for Culture fully agrees that this is an important issue. It will obviously be a loss for the Norwegian film if it is such that it is men who dominate the films that the audience will see. A steering group called ‘Sex in motion — an investigation and action plan for gender balance in the film industry’ has been set up. An overall film industry, including the public film industry, is behind this project. The aim of this work is to have at least 40 pst in five years. women in all sectors of the industry, and that Norwegian films should reflect the breadth and diversity of society, both in age and gender. As part of this work, a film policy conference called ‘Spill sex a role?’ was held in October 2004 by the Norwegian Film Institute and the professional organisations. The conference was one of a series of actions which, hopefully, should lead to a smoother gender distribution both in front and behind the camera in Norwegian films. In November 2003, the Arbeitsforskningsinstitutt was commissioned by Norsk Filmfond, Norsk Filminstitutt, The Norwegian Film School and Norwegian film development to look at career opportunities and career choices in the Norwegian film industry. In October 2004, the AFI submitted the report ‘When men choose men and women choose men... – Views on the use of women’s resources in the Norwegian film industry – report from a pre-project’. This is a pre-project that forms the basis of the main project in this area, a major study in which a gender-based analysis of the flows of money is carried out. The Minister of Culture welcomes the fact that the industry itself has highlighted this issue and will follow their work closely. Should it appear that the industry's own work in this field does not lead to more women in Norwegian films, the Minister of Culture will assess whether it is necessary to put in place its own measures
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1028	I thank you for the answer, and I think it is very good that the Minister of Culture is concerned about this issue. It is not that men have more artistic genes than women, so there must be something structural that makes there relatively few female filmmakers in Norway. The operators are talking about both glass roofs and glass walls. The women’s network that has just started up here in Norway calls for an offensive attitude from the political environment, and so do others. I think we should show an offensive attitude in political life. That's why I ask if the Government will do as the Swedish government does and propose 40 pst. by means of female scriptwriters, producers and directors within five years, thereby ensuring that the equality law can also apply in the film industry, as in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1037	No, there's no reason to think that women are less creative or should have fewer ideas or less knowledge of movies. There's been an investigation, as I pointed out, and it points out, among other things. The fact that there are prejudices, invisible mechanisms, informal networks and, in fact, a rather surprising perhaps, an old-fashioned and closed culture that makes women not reach in the same way. As I now understand this, the objective in Sweden and Norway is the same. The difference is that in Sweden the 40-pst goal is included in the Swedish film agreement. The parties are obliged to work actively to improve gender equality and reach the 40 p.m. target, while in Norway the parties have committed themselves by implementing measures in the industry itself. As I understand the Minister of Culture, she will wait for the results here some time before she assesses whether other measures should be put in place. I see it basically so that you have the same goal, and that developments in Norway in themselves can well be so positive that you want to commit yourself and not just wait for a directive so to say from above.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1046	I thank you for your answer. I think that the political environment must be somewhat more offensive, but I am recording the answer. The councils have referred to the AFI report, which I understand she has read well, and she has the same impressions that I have. It also shows these informal networks. Another thing is that in terms of the different stories that men and women tell, it turns out that men's stories sell better. That is why I think it should be a requirement for the film industry to report on the use of funds in a gender perspective. In the report referred to by the Council of State, it is also proposed to examine the need to create a visualisation area for women filmmakers. There's a lot of suggestions in the report at all. What I want to encourage the Council of State, or the Government, is to go in and look at what comes out of the projects that are now under way, and then make an action plan, so that the political environment can play along with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1057	I agree that this visualisation is important, and I can mention another action that the industry has just launched, namely a project called WIFT Norway – Women in Film and Television – which is a professional network aimed at making and strengthening women active in all cinema, TV and multimedia functions, and also to participate in an international network. It's very positive. I have been assured by the Minister of Culture that not only will we leave it entirely passive to the industry but that we will monitor and monitor developments very closely. What reporting mechanisms you use, I'm not quite familiar with, but you'll follow developments closely. I'm not going to take the chance here to commit the Minister of Culture beyond that, but I'm going to bring to her the idea of a possible action plan, because, as I say, she's at least committed to assessing her own actions if the measures that are now in progress would not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1075	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1089	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1096	The question is as follows: «Capacities at Haukeland University Hospital have exploded. At the same time, the hospital is facing an expected strong growth in disease groups that are linked to people living longer. Health undertakings have very limited opportunities to meet investment needs within their own budgetary framework. In addition, undertakings have restrictions on borrowing. For Health West and for Health Bergen, the economy is also very under pressure. What is the plan of the Council of State to ensure the necessary hospital capacity with good standards in Health West/Health Bergen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1105	I have previously been informed that investment projects are planned in Health Bergen. I would like to stress that, in line with the intentions of the hospital reform, the Health Vest regional health company has a responsibility to offer the best possible range to those living in the whole health region, within the available budget frameworks. This also applies to upgrading the building and equipment mass to meet future needs for services in the regions. The representative of Sortevik indicates that the capacity of Haukeland University Hospital has been detonated. At the same time, we know that changes in the professional offer also lead to changes in bedtime, and that patients do not need hospitalisation for treatments that previously required stays for several days. This affects the use of hospital beds and thus the calculations in relation to the future needs of beds. The need and desire for new projects at this hospital must be assessed by Health Vest RHF in a regional perspective, based on the responsibility of Health Vest. It was and is a pre-requisite of the Storting that new investments should and must be carried out within ordinary budgets and priorities. The basic budget of the Health West RHF is allocated approximately 650 million annually. DKK in order to cover the costs of depreciation incurred by the regional health undertaking. In our governance of regional health enterprises, it is assumed that the liquidity generated by this income stream must be centrally managed by regional health enterprises for priority projects across the region. In addition to these funds, loans are granted in the national fund for investments to ensure financial flexibility for regional health enterprises to implement projects. The Ministry of Health administers and distributes annual loan frameworks and, for the current year, the loan framework in Health West is 350 million. kr. It must be pointed out that the distribution of the loan framework by the Ministry is based on an overall assessment of the plans adopted by all regional health establishments in the field of investment, investment plans to be assessed and prioritised by the regional level within a comprehensive professional and economic framework. The current loan framework to Health West RHF reflects the level of investment that is now being implemented in this region. It is the Stortingen which, in the annual government budgets, lays down a loan framework for regional health enterprises. Any decision in the Health West to upgrade and expand at the Haukeland Hospital will need to be taken into account in the department's distribution of future loan frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1118	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is that the health west points to is a significantly larger total project than that covered by the term ‘upgrade’. Here we talk about significant investments over a five-year period, from 2005 to 2010, of almost DKK 3 billion. At best, it is appropriate that, through annual operating costs, it may be set aside for the maintenance and depreciation of existing installations in a reasonably good way. It is difficult to imagine that such extensive construction and expansion as we are talking about here can be covered within the annual budgetary framework. It is also true that hospital construction in other regions, for example: St. Olav's Hospital and the former Central Hospital in Akershus have received significant extra funds from the state. Will we also be able to get our own development programme with the corresponding state funding for Haukeland Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1129	Firstly, I am well aware that there is a special state co-financing in the case of St. Olav's Hospital and Aarhus. It has its background in the fact that the state took over the ownership of hospitals in a situation where, at Aarhus and St. Olav's Hospital, major expansions took place. The State had to take over both debit and credit in connection with that transfer. It was and is the intention of the hospital reform that the then workers' party government reconciled with the Progress Party that the cash flow that goes annually to health businesses should be the one used to maintain existing buildings and that it should be sufficient to cover the depreciation and capital costs arising from initial investments. This does not mean that in the future there will be no projects of such a nature that there will have to be a possible state co-financing, but there is in no way the starting point for this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1136	It is precisely the point here that, from a five-year perspective, the scope of development is significant. We're talking about $3 billion. In my view, there is a clear demonstration that an extraordinary state effort is needed to ensure that such a necessary development, in order to ensure good patient treatment, can actually be carried out. There can't be a lack of money in the state that makes it impossible to enter and give a state package in this region as well. Finally, let me ask: is it possible for health companies to set up their own companies which are themselves responsible for development and which may then rent back facilities? Is there a problem that health businesses may be forced to assess? Is it for the purpose of the State as the owner of the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1143	Regional health enterprises have both a legal and an economic framework within which to adhere. Within it they can exercise the creativity they may have, but it will not be cheaper for the operating budget if you rent back a building from a subsidiary than if you have it in the main company. The square metre price to be charged annually to an operating account is actually exactly the same. Creativity to get one penny to become two I don't even think Health West things. But if they come up with such a proposal, I shall of course look very interested in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1152	‘In Avisa Nordland on 21 June 2004, it was revealed that a nursing patient was starving or, as reported in the Health Authority’s report, died of ‘subnutrition’. April 16th, d.o.b. the newspaper has another suggestion about a man in great need of care, who is to be sent home to his sick wife, who is unable to care for him. Bodø Municipality, however, is of the opinion that she is. Does the Council of State Bodø Municipality consider that the requirements are met and that it offers that they are strongly in need of care under the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1159	I would first like to admit that the Health Inspectorate's state report on the case, which appeared last June, points to serious health and social issues in Bodø. People in need of social and health services should not risk dying of malnutrition in Norway today — of course not. It is the municipality of Bodø that is responsible for providing the necessary social and health services to those in the municipality. The municipality is closest to the user and therefore closest to assessing the need for the caregiver. The municipality shall ensure that the services are sound and design the service provision in cooperation with the user. The State Health Authority carries out professional supervision of the promotion of the objectives of healthcare by municipalities in a sound and appropriate manner. The Health Inspectorate in Northern Ireland has recently received the last case referred to as a complaint and is now dealing with it. The government has put in place a number of measures to strengthen the content of the services of individuals on a general basis. From 2003, quality requirements in the municipal care sector have been regulated. The regulation clarifies to municipalities and users the requirements for the content of services. The regulation obliges municipalities to develop procedures aimed at ensuring that users are adequately satisfied with their basic needs. It covers all care services provided under the Local Health and Social Services Act, irrespective of the reason for each user’s needs for services, and regardless of whether he or she lives in an institution or in his or her own home. I would also like to point out that the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has developed a guide to the regulation on quality in the care sector. From 2003 onwards, municipalities are also obliged to develop internal control procedures, where local authorities’ procedures to ensure sound services are clearly identified. The internal control obligation, together with the quality regulation, must ensure that the municipality has procedures to ensure that users are properly serviced at all times. State health surveillance in the State shall monitor the adequacy of the administrative procedures. The supervisory reports also provide a background and basis for the evaluation and improvement of own-service by municipalities. The individual issue mentioned in the question concerns a situation in which both hospitals and municipalities are involved. Better interaction between specialist health services and individual municipalities is an area of high priority for the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and a recent investigation addressing this issue was presented. The Government will follow up the investigation with concrete proposals for stricter requirements for cooperation between these actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1176	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State is looking at the serious conditions that have been revealed, in such a way as he does. This also shows, of course, that some municipalities, including the municipality of Bodø, make priorities in relation to the health service that I do not find acceptable. This also reveals the need to introduce a customer-based system with completely different rights. It is not acceptable, in my view, that a sick lady of 79 years of age should care for her 85-year-old husband, who is unable to do so, and thus become a caste ball back and forth between the hospital and the municipality. In the municipality of Bodø, it seems that this is more normal than abnormal, and I hope that the Council of State will address this specifically with the municipality of Bodø and clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1183	First of all, of course, I fully agree that this matter, as it is presented in the local press – and I have no reason to doubt that it is right – appears completely unacceptable. It is totally unacceptable that such situations should arise. I think the representative Svendsen may be right that it is often about local priorities when things become like they are. With regard to this specific case and follow-up in relation to the municipality of Bodø, it is therefore my underlying office, the Health Authority, which now carries out the necessary control, and which also implements the necessary measures and possible reactions to the municipality of Bodø. I have told the director of the State Health Authority, Lars E. Hansen, that we must in no way wear silk gloves when we look at the situation of the elderly, whether they live in institutions or in their own homes, as regards the offer they receive qualitatively, and that we must ensure that the municipalities do the necessary priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1190	I am very pleased with the last response from the Council of State, and hope that it will be followed up by the Health Authority. A report on this death has been prepared, but that report is not public both by the Health Authority and by the municipality. This means that the relatives have no opportunity to go into the report. In Avisa Nordland on 20 April, one of the relatives said in relation to a complaint which they have not formally filed: «When we have not submitted a formal complaint, it is related to the fact that I do not fully see the joke. The problem with things like this is that it likes to blow a little bit, and then it goes in the forgetbook." Based on a control function, it is very important that such matters are not included in the forgotten book, that the Health Authority follows up, and that the Health Authority also gives the relatives the opportunity to see reports of what has happened in such tragic cases as this. Will the Minister take the initiative to give such transparency to those concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1204	Here we are in a waters where one should also think well about – what requirements to comply with as regards the transparency of relatives. The individual concerned has his or her rights. We don't experience so rarely that relatives claim the same right, but as long as people are authoritative, over the age of 18, and still rule over themselves, even relatives cannot uphold the right without being in agreement with the person concerned. With regard to this specific matter and transparency, I am not aware of that relationship. It might sound a little special to me if the person concerned was not to have the insight that is being asked. This must be possible in order to have your own assessment of the supervision carried out. I note that, and I will check it out and report it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1215	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: «In answer to written question No. 662 informed Health Minister Højbräten that the Rikshospitalet had the capacity to meet the need for operations on Parkinson’s patients in its own region. [[2002-2003]] The Norwegian Parkinson’s Association reports that fully investigated patients have to wait for up to 2 years for surgery. The NPF states that the Rikshospital figures for 2005 are 40 operations and that if the waiting time is not to increase, the figure should have doubled. Will the Council of State ensure that these patients are treated in accordance with the Patient Rights Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1224	The short answer to this question is yes, of course it should. However, I will give a more complementary answer. Patients with Parkinson’s disease receive, as they are known, primary medical treatment, but it is also relevant for those with the greatest problems of implantation, which this is about. These emit electrical signals to mitigate the symptoms, and are given in addition to and partly to substitute for drugs. In Norway, the Rikshospitalet was first out with these types of operations. These are now done elsewhere. This year, about 40 interventions of this nature are carried out at the Rikshospitalet. According to Health Sør, the hospital aims to increase the number of operations for this patient group. Several measures are being taken to help increase capacity. Firstly, we are working on a change in the financing of high-cost medicine in general, which we will come back to in the revised national budget. Secondly, as we know, we have a process called Oslo, where improved coordination of services between hospitals is an important goal. This also applies to neurosurgery, which is the subject area in question, where coordination must aim at significantly increasing activity. As a result of the amendments to the Patient Rights Act of 1 September 2004, patients who are most in need of health care are granted a right to the necessary health care. This means that, on the basis of a specific medical assessment, a time limit should be allowed for each patient to receive treatment at the latest. The Swedish Social Security Agency will require a treatment offer immediately, either in another hospital in Norway or abroad, unless this deadline is met. In other words, the patient’s needs and not the healthcare capacity are to determine the waiting time for necessary treatment. The right to the necessary health care should ensure that patients who, on the basis of a medical assessment, require the most treatment are first treated. In addition, all patients in contact with the specialist healthcare system shall also be informed of the outcome of the assessment carried out, whether they are entitled to the necessary health care and whether a deadline has been set for its provision. The issue raised concerns a subject area which is under construction and where capacity is now gradually increasing. Where capacity is not satisfactory in Norway, it may be appropriate to purchase treatment capacity abroad. Furthermore, we are working on concrete measures in relation to financing this type of treatment, and the on-going Oslo process will also affect the overall capacity of neurosurgical interventions. Measures to strengthen capacity in other parts of the country may also be relevant, in particular if the waiting time does not prove to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1241	On behalf of Parkinson's patients, I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. Long waiting time for the operational treatment of Parkinson’s patients has been a recurring problem in our specialised hospitals. Until today, these patients have been largely investigated and treated at the Rikshospitalet, but due to very poor and desperate economics in the current year, 40 patients have been exposed to such operations at the Rikshospitalet. It's just going to be equal to approx. half of patients who should have had surgery in 2005. When presenting the revised national budget, will the Minister of Health ensure that Parkinson’s patients who have already been investigated and are ready for operation receive this treatment by the end of 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1250	It's quite obvious, as I've been presented with the need, that the capacity is not enough as it is today. With the patient rights legislation we now have, patients have the right to receive treatment, whether they are present or not, in their own health region or in another health region. That means that this has to be solved either by expanding the capacity, or by at least buying capacity abroad until further notice. When the representative, Alvheim, asks about those who are now being investigated and clear and have thus received this guarantee, will receive the offer by the end of 2005, the answer to this simply has to be that they now have a legal claim for it. It must therefore be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1257	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. With the current ISF and DRG coverage, it turns out that the Rikshospitalet can only be refunded approx. one third of the cost of such surgical treatment for a Parkinson’s patient. Then it's really not so strange that the treatment capacity at the Rikshospital, which, like other hospitals, is struggling with strict economy, leads to longer waiting time for these patients. These patients are partly very bad. Can it be expected that the Minister of Health, when presenting the revised national budget, will propose a system of high-cost medicine in general for the major hospitals? These include, for example, cell toxicity treatment, implantation treatment and treatment of Parkinson’s disease. This applies most to Parkinson's patients, as we discuss in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1266	There were many questions in time, but they add up to what I would call a well-founded reference to areas that demand solving, whether it's at the Rikshospital or elsewhere. Nevertheless, since the Rikshospitalet is mentioned in particular, I would say that within the hospital's total budget of between 5 and 6 billion kroner, although it is an economic constraint, all despite a certain space of action. I would also like to point out that for this special area, which is part of the ISF scheme, and as the representative says only gets a third covered by the ISF scheme, it is nevertheless such that the rest is, after all, financed by a basic allocation. After all, it is not just the ISF share that represents the total compensation that the hospital receives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1277	‘The new continental to Svalbard fibre cable opens the possibility of offering telemedicine to the population of Longyearbyen. Telestudios can be established in hospitals, such as: Professional staff may be provided with updates, participation in internal education in Health Nord etc. The hospital is currently not connected, because the University Hospital of North Norway has assessed the costs to be too high. Will the Council of State contribute to a solution so that hospitals are connected to the new fibre cable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1284	I am familiar with the fact that since Longyearbyen Hospital became an organisational part of the University Hospital North Norway HF, it has been working to find a satisfactory form of digital cooperation between the units. Furthermore, I am aware that the original connection via ISDN has been unacceptable for especially the Longyearbyen Hospital. I have a lot of understanding that the personnel want a connection with more capacity than this. I am also aware that there have been many long-term discussions between Telenor and the hospital to find a solution. It is Telenor Svalbard who has all the rights to offer and supply in the case of Svalbard. It is agreed in agreement with fibre plants that UNINETT prices cannot be used for delivery to the hospital, which means that the network has wished for the normal market price. However, in view of the fact that health services are involved, and in view of the safety represented by the hospital, Telenor has found it possible to derogate from the requirement of market prices in this case. Therefore, an offer has now been sent where a capacity of 10 megabits is offered at the price of 2 megabits with an annual cost of well 600 000 kroner. The offer was sent from Telenor Svalbard to Longyearbyen Hospital. The offer is still assessed by the hospital as too low in terms of capacity. The capacity that the University Hospital believes needs, namely 100 megabits per person. second, will have an annual cost of $5 million. kr, which is 25 pst. of the total budget for the operation of the Longyearbyen Hospital. UNN, the University Hospital of North Norway, is now working with others to find a different solution, except for the monopoly that Telenor Svalbard has. Furthermore, it has also proved very difficult to obtain satisfactory delivery on other Telenor products until any price change occurs on these products. I agree with the representative Hansen that it must be such that employees at Longyearbyen should have almost equal opportunities as employees on the mainland to participate in internal education over the network, and must also be able to use digital solutions to provide good and modern health services to those who live or stay on Svalbard. It is understandable and acceptable that it is somewhat more expensive to offer services to Svalbard than to the mainland. However, Telenor’s pricing of the service in question may seem very high. It is not reasonable that the hospital, even with conservative estimates of bandwidth needs, can end up with an annual cost of about Two million. kr, or 10 pst. of its overall budget. This will also have consequences for what opportunities we have to provide the inhabitants of Svalbard with a modern health service. Here, not only health services, but also Telenor have a social responsibility. The time since the question was asked has not made it possible in detail to go through all the different aspects of a very complex, regulatory issue – as a result of the particular situation of Svalbard. However, I will follow this further to my colleague who is involved in it, and not least to Health Nord and Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1297	I thank you for the answer and interpret it there until the Council of State will follow up the matter and try to help find a solution. I thought that was positive. There is reason to stress that Svalbard has a population of about 2000 inhabitants. In addition, there are a lot of tourists visiting the island group. It is registered approx. 100000 guest house day. So the need for a good hospital offer, a good emergency response, because Svalbard is big. There is no doubt that a connection to this fibre cable will help to improve that offer. In addition, having a good hospital offer and telemedicine on Svalbard will save money because medical treatment can be carried out on Svalbard, which you would otherwise have had to travel to the mainland to get. So here, there's also money to save. So I just want to encourage the Council of State to take a real step in this case and to help you get a solution in relation to Telenor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1304	Yes, I will definitely do that. I have to be honest and say that when I saw this question, I paused a little. I know the history of the cable itself very well. I was the one who was responsible for the negotiations with the Americans when we put this cable down, and I assumed – in my mind at least – that maybe one of the most important things next to the research piece was just the hospital. I can tell the representative Hansen that I have tried to contact Telenor myself this morning to find out what this is really about. I feel quite sure that when that contact is reached, it will also be a solution. Everything else will seem strange. I can also say that at the end of May we are going to have an EU Ministerial Conference in Tromsø – and we are also going to Svalbard – where telemedicine is a topic. And then when we invite our European friends up there, I think it would have been okay that we had the opportunity to send something through the cable, which we've spent quite a lot of money laying down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1313	I then thank you for the answer, and I feel confident that before that EU conference the matter has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1318	That would be my starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1327	«Many pregnant women with pelvic solution experience severe movement inhibitions for a limited period of time. In order to avoid pain-provoking activities, it is very important for these women that it is well organised. Does the Council of State see the possibility of improving the rights of persons with reduced mobility to parking, and what can the Council of State do to achieve a consistent practice in relation to applications for temporary parking certificates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1334	The government has a clear goal of making everyday life easier for people with reduced mobility, including: by removing barriers and ensuring good accessibility. The themes that the questioner addresses are central issues in this context. The parking industry is strongly changing both in scope and organisation. From being an area with mainly public providers, is currently served over 50 pst. by the market of private parking companies which are not subject to public regulation. The parking offer may be seen to be too uneven in terms of conditions for parking, penalties, access to justice, signage, etc. If disabled persons with municipal parking permits are given reduced parking opportunities due to fewer dedicated public spaces and as a result of an increasing number of public-owned parking spaces being outsourced to the operation of private parking companies, it is very unfortunate. A municipal parking permit does not grant rights in a privately operated parking space. I have therefore started a work to address these issues. The aim is to increase user rights in general and in relation to persons with reduced mobility in particular, as well as to eliminate any distortions of competition in the industry and to cultivate the distinction between the exercise of public authority and the pursuit of activities in this field. We are therefore now developing legislation that takes more account of the rights of users, including: particular attention to the situation and needs of people with disabilities. The work follows two tracks. Firstly, public-owned enterprises and companies are now being clearly informed by their respective departments of the provision of a satisfactory car park to disabled persons. Among other things, the Railway Agency and Avinor are now addressing these issues. Furthermore, a working group will be set up to carry out an overall review of public and private tax-parking and thereby provide the basis for the establishment of a single set of rules. In addition to the clarification and harmonisation of the parking facilities of persons with reduced mobility, the group will explore the possibilities of equal signage, equal competence requirements, the joint review body, etc. irrespective of whether the parking area and the parking company are public or private owned and operated. The organisations of the disabled and the various consumer bodies will be represented in the group. The aim is to provide a report with concrete recommendations by the end of 2005. In the case of temporary parking vouchers, I point out that authorisation can be granted to a person who ‘cannot go or has a lot of difficulty in moving over some length’, as it says. Pregnancies with a pelvic solution will thus be able to fill the conditions and may apply to the municipality of residence for a time-limited parking permit. As far as I am aware, parking vouchers are also issued today on this basis, but I would like to clarify to the municipalities that this should be practised in the same way throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1347	I would like to thank the Council of State so much for the answer, and I am very happy both for the initiatives she has taken and for sharing my position. I only have one follow-up question. Those I've been particularly concerned about on my question are those who get temporary proof. Now the parking policy has begun to evolve into a part of the entire car policy of a municipality, where you want to limit the parking so that everyone who has an alternative in public transport uses it, while the car is used by those who need it. And those who absolutely need the car are those who have motion impairments. The question I have then to the Council of State is whether the Council of State will be sure that those groups that need temporary evidence – those who do not have a long-term disability, but one short-term – will also be taken care of in the work that has been started.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1354	I am concerned that we should generally focus on universal design of transport solutions, both in terms of infrastructure and in terms of the means of transport themselves, and, as we have been discussing now, parking solutions. I want to stress that if a person has a disability for only a period of time, it is equally important that that person feels that no unnecessary barriers are created in society. There is no doubt that the transport sector is important both in terms of parking and in terms of transport solutions themselves. That is why I will place great emphasis on the work in the future now that we have a uniform handling of the legislation around the country, and that temporary permits are granted for that type of parking. People must be able to feel confident that they are being treated the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1359	I'm absolutely sure this is in the best hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1364	Excellent. And the Council of State agrees with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1367	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1376	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘There has been yet another invasion of the Defence Arms Warehouse. This is serious, as weapons and equipment in the wrong hands, among other things. may reduce the safety of Norway. How does the Council of State view this, and what will it do to ensure that military equipment is stored in such a way as to minimise the possibility of burglary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1385	The defense takes any attempt and indeed theft of military critical material very seriously. The defence has established procedures for the follow-up and implementation of security measures in each case of weapons theft. In line with this, last year, a working group was set up to assess the measures in question by the Chief of Defence, following the gun theft on Jørstadmoen. The immediate recommendations of the group have been implemented and long-term actions are under follow-up. In recent years, there have been several weapons thefts from the Armed Forces' warehouses. Most of both weapons and ammunition, however, have come to an end, but developments are still alarming. After the attempted theft of the defence warehouse in Flekker Island, the head of defence has undertaken a task of assessing the centralisation of the defence weapons warehouses, in order to ensure optimal security and watchkeeping. I welcome the results of this work, which will be completed by the end of June of this year. In this connection, I refer you to an interview with the head of defense about this on the Swedish Defence Network on April 18. I would like to add that the defense has a good and well-established cooperation with the police on securing the defence weapons warehouse. The attempted theft on Flekker Island showed that the cooperation works after the intention. I also refer to the reply to the Advance Party of 27 April by letter of 20 April, where a request for an overview of previous weapons thefts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1400	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer, which was, to that extent, a good answer. It's not the first time there's any gun theft or theft in general from the property of the Defense, and I think, unfortunately, it's going to happen in the future as well. What we have to do, of course, is reduce the possibilities of weapons theft and other theft from the Defense to a minimum. It may well be a good idea to ask the Council of State whether this could have a connection with the reorganisation that the Defence Agency is currently carrying out, putting down military installations, and then ‘forgetting’ weapons storage, and not taking weapons and equipment to the new place. Then maybe the stores are left, something uncentered and something hidden, so that the possibilities of burglaries, as we saw now, are relatively good for those who want to break in at night without others seeing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1409	No, I don't want to say that it's the reorganization of the defense that provides increased opportunities for weapons theft, rather on the contrary. In relation to Home Protection, we have, at the same time, modernised the Home Protection system, as well as the fighting force of the Home Protection system, to reduce the likelihood that these weapons can be used both for ran and not least for killing committed by those who have the weapons at their disposal. In addition, we know that the reorganisation of defence will in any case lead to the centralisation of weapons and ammunition stocks, and with more centralisation of these stocks, there are also opportunities to increase watchkeeping. What the head of defense signals in the interview it is referred to is that we have to consider storing this type of material in a much smaller number of places than the old structure provided for – the old structure was very decentralised – and that we then primarily store it by arsenic or equivalent so that we can also have a 24-hour watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1414	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is possible that I expressed myself a little wrong, because my wish is, of course, that military stocks, whatever you want to keep, are located in as few places as possible and so centrally that whoever tries to do something illegal is discovered before you get the opportunity to take things out of the warehouse. With regard to the last stock thefts, there was a break-in first one day and then the other one, and then you can wonder if the routines were followed. You can also wonder if that type of depot or warehouse is built correctly. We have wide walls and roofs, but if you buy an angle grinder of 99 kroner at some kind of store and go there and cut over the knock on the door, you're inside. So it's possible that at this stage we also have to look at how to secure what we have in the warehouses. It is not enough with good walls and roofs, but the door, which is perhaps the most important, needs to be secured in a much better way. I think we have to bring this with us too. Otherwise, I believe that both the Council of State and the Advancement Party have the same intention: the least possible thefts, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1419	I can confirm here that the Council of State and the Advancement Party are in line, and I would like to add that the head of defence is also on the same line. And he's also making that clear. The head of defense also says that the security system and the warning system on Flekker Island functioned as intended, the police were alerted and pulled out, the alarm devices functioned as required, and the police were notified immediately. When, despite this, it's possible to steal both weapons, ammunition and explosives and then get away, the chief of defense's suggestion is that we might have here a storage concept that's wrong, and he suggests that fewer places, and primarily by arsenic or equivalent, can be a way to go. Then I think it's fair that the head of defence gets the time he's asked for, until the end of June, to clarify exactly what military professional recommendation he's going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1428	I will allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Modernization: ‘The NRC could report on 21 April that about 500 Norwegian schools have an agreement with Microsoft which largely shuts down other software from schools. The Competition Authority is now examining this agreement. Does the Council of State consider the development of such software agreements to be a good development and will he address this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1437	I share the view of the representative Leknes that Microsoft’s role in the software market raises many and central competition policy issues that it is important to be answered. Creating effective competition in this area is a major and essential challenge. I'm concerned with ensuring diversity. There is also an important reason why this government abandoned the central purchasing agreement that the ministries had with Microsoft, precisely to ensure good competition. I am also concerned that it is not necessary to have a special software platform, or technical platform, to have a digital dialogue with the public. As the representative himself refers to, this specific case is now before the Competition Authority. In this respect, I can inform you that according to the supervision, the case raises several issues related to the new and strict competition law. Among these issues are claims of pricing contrary to Section 11 of the Competition Act prohibiting one or more undertakings from taking advantage of a dominant position. This may, for example: means that an enterprise prices a good or a service below the cost of production to squeeze competitors out of the market, in order to take a high price when the competitors are pushed out. It is claimed that Microsoft offers operating systems to schools for 130 kroner per year. license, while KS for comparison has negotiated a national agreement with a price of NOK 329 per person. licence. Skolelinux believes that this shows that the price offered to schools is below the cost Microsoft itself has of offering the product. It is also claimed that Microsoft provides more favourable agreements to schools that undertake to install Microsoft’s operating system on all school’s PCs. Such behaviour may therefore be contrary to point (c) of Section 11 of the Competition Act. We have to admit that these kinds of things are complicated and require a lot of resources in supervision. I have been informed from the supervision that it has contact with the Office of Fair Trading, which investigates similar issues in the United Kingdom. The supervision expects that it may have resolved the matter by the end of this year. The supervision may impose an infringement fee under Section 29 of the Competition Act or may require an unlawful conduct to be brought to an end in relation to Section 12 of the Competition Act. Any order for termination could be appealed against to the Ministry of Modernisation. It is the supervision that is now dealing with the matter, and it would not be right for me to give views on this specific matter. I have full confidence that the supervision treats it well. But more generally, I can tell you that we by the Government have a great deal of commitment to the issue of the use of open standards and increased competition in the software market. I want to present in the eNorway 2005-2008 plan, presented in June of this year, a robust policy on how we in public will facilitate more use of open-ended software and ensure competition and freedom to choose the platform that the user wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1450	I thank you for your answer. I fully understand that the Minister for Modernisation cannot forge a possible response from the Competition Authority. But what's interesting here is that on the government team, it's free competition that's kind of the driving element. And when you talk about free competition, I'd like to remind the Minister of Modernization that there's a very big difference between buying electricity on the power market, buying completely homogeneous products, and buying software from different suppliers. For it requires extensive training to change the software provider. So my question to the Minister for Modernization is simply: Does the Minister for Modernisation share the view that, in order to ensure free competition in the software field, training in several systems must be provided to prevent one actor from benefiting from the fact that it already has a large market position and is automatically trained for users?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1457	The representative Leknes and I share the objective of enhanced competition and a freer software market in Norway, and we share the view that public Norway has an important role to play in being a driving force for greater transparency and competition. I would like to take a debate on instruments to stimulate this, but I would ask for an understanding that this policy by the Government is now under preparation. I have also promised, both from this platform and in other contexts, that we will present a policy of strengthening the use of open standards in the public sector in the eNorway 2005-2008, and I look forward to an exciting and useful debate after being allowed to present a comprehensive policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1464	I thank you for your answer. I think we will have an exciting and interesting debate in this area in the future. I would just like to stress once again the need for training in systems other than those that dominate today, which at least in the operating and office sectors are mostly Microsoft. I would suggest to the Minister for Modernisation that government teams take initiatives for free training in software based on open source for public sector IT managers. It may be difficult for the Minister of Modernisation to advance a yes or no, but I would at least ask if he would consider such a measure to improve technological policy development – possibly free competition, if one is a little further to the right on the party scale than SV does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1473	I can confirm that I take the proposal from the representative of Leknes into account in the further work. I confirm that it is a good proposal to consider further. And the representative should not be surprised if this is one of the instruments we want to take with us when we present what I stress must be a holistic and robust policy for the development of more open standards in the public sector. Because I think the representative will agree that it needs more than training measures, but training can be a useful and important element of a comprehensive strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1483	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘It has emerged in the media that the Minister for the Environment has allocated 500 000 kroner for environmental work in the Church and made promises of 1 million. kr to next year. Resources for environmental organisations and projects are scarce resources, so 500 000 DKK is a large amount. The Bondevik II Government has, among others: the proposed and implemented strong cut to Bellona and Green everyday life. What is the rationale for this allocation, and for what are the funds intended to be used?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1492	I believe the representative of Konglevoll will be with me in that Church is an important player in society. To get Church to talk about environmental protection issues, several of my predecessors have been occupied by, regardless of the political party. As Minister for the Environment, I attach great importance to the interaction with the NGOs. The voluntary organizations have special competence and reach out to the whole people. With its broad field of work in all parts of the country and in the community, Church is a central player in environmental protection. The Church has long been committed to issues that coincide with important priorities of environmental protection policy. I would particularly like to mention the efforts to put sustainable consumption on the agenda of the 1990s, where the Church created a radical manifesto. In 2003, the Church supported efforts to combat marine pollution. I would also like to highlight the role of Church in Sellafield, where all the bishops signed up that they handed over to the Church of England. It also has great effect when the archbishop of Canterbury last week appealed to British voters to let the environment decide the choice of party. I would like to comment on the premise for the question. The foundation of the nationwide member-driven environmental protection organisations is increasing this year by 15 pst. At the same time, the rights of dissemination of competences and information on environmentally friendly production and consumption have been somewhat reduced. The reduction is allocated to different organisations receiving supplements for such measures, and for Bellona this means a reduction of NOK 200000. This reduction must also be seen in the light of the fact that Bellona has over the years received quite a large contribution to its work from the government. At the same time, I point out that an organisation such as ZERO will receive for the first time a premium of NOK 300000 for CO2 handling and hydrogen technology. I would also like to stress that no organisation has been given permission for 2006. All project support is based on qualified applications. Project support provided by the Ministry of the Environment to the Church shall be directed towards societal information activities. It is natural that Churcha, on the same footing as other organizations, starts with herself. Kyrkja is a large organisation responsible for its own environmental profile in line with the work carried out by the state in the Green State project. Focus will be placed on showing what individual can do for our common environment. With this support, the Government hopes to strengthen the Church in its efforts to disseminate the need for increased environmental efforts to the wider community, both through the social debate, through work in church sounds and communities and through its own environmental efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1510	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that the Church can do, and do, an important effort in relation to the environment, and precisely in the discussion of consumption, the Church can be an important actor. The reason why we have reacted, however, is that according to what the Council of State has said to the media, it seems that there has been a very rapid procedure. When he's in the media, among other things, points to the care of lawns and the development of more environmentally friendly tombs, it does not appear to be the main environmental challenges when looking at the contribution of other organisations. My follow-up question will be whether the Council of State considers it with the care of lawns and the development of environmentally friendly tombs as an important bet area and something that is important to use state resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1519	I agree with the representative, Kollevoll, that the media has not provided a good coverage of the work that green church sounds do. What I've been busy about is that they have a significant width in their activities. It is both a practical work that is linked to the operation that Church has, and significant holding-up information measures against the broad society of the people that Church meets. With a view to rapid processing, I received an application for the Ministry of the Environment on 6 December, and we then decided to support this measure. It is not the first time that Church has received support from the Ministry of the Environment. I can also show that a party colleague of the representative, Konglevoll, supported the Church in 2000, precisely because this is part of building up the broad society of the people that we need in a commitment to the environment. It has been my purpose. Some of this work has been presented in the media, but not the width of the work that the Church stands for within the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1526	The media may not get the width, but it is still such that the government in the media said that the care of lawns and the development of environmentally friendly tombs was the thing that this money should go to. Now the State Council has not said anything about it in its answer. My concern is that it appears that the Church has almost been invited to apply from an area where there is very little resources, and where the Stortinge is briefed on appropriations down to less than NOK 100 000 for organisations. My question is whether the Council of State sees that such a commitment may be problematic, obviously based on a very brief application, when you look at the working conditions of the other organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1533	I want to show you that we have increased the permissions of environmental organisations. We've had an increase of 15 pst. The entry from which Bellona is supported is another entry other than the one that supports green church sounds. It means that if I had chosen not to provide support for green church sounds, or had chosen to provide support as I have done, it would have nothing to say for the support that Bellona gets. So it's a misinterpretation of what has come up, that one has taken from the environmental organisations and given to the Church. That's not true. I think the width of the work that Church stands for here is important. The Church is a strategic partner for environmental work. When I joined the Ministry of Environmental Protection, one of my visions was to create a larger environmental exposure in the Norwegian people. Then we must also be willing to prioritize the organisations that are now at the heart of the environmental work. That's what I've arranged for through this promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1546	‘More inhabitants and entrepreneurs report significant noise pollution associated with the Eastern and Red Squad region. It is expressed a strong desire that the Department, in its treatment of, among other things, the concession carries out the necessary inspection and literally ‘belongs to’. It is essential in such large establishments that concessions for noise and nuisance are treated in a trusting manner. Will the Council of State ensure that ‘the Ministry listens to’ and carries out the necessary inspection before the conclusion of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1553	Region of the East, Rødsmoen exercise area and Rena clay were granted permission by the SFT on 17 March 2004. The decision has been appealed against, and the case has been dismissed by the Department for its final decision. The Ministry always makes thorough assessments of all the facts in a complaint case. If a view is necessary before a decision is taken, it is considered concretely in each case. The establishment of the Eastern Region and its activities in the area are of such scale and affect many people and different interests. I can therefore confirm to the representative of Storberget that the department will make a point of view in the area where those affected will be able to make their views known.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1560	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's nice to know that you come to see and listen. That's what it's all about, and there's a lot of people here that's worried. Whether you're a fan or an opponent of such large and intrusive social institutions as this is in reality, I think it's crucial that we have a good dialogue with environmental protection authorities about this in a reliable way, for example. seeking to ensure the legitimacy of the activities. And then I ask the Minister for the Environment: will it also contribute to the fact that for such large projects there is a very clear threshold in relation to noise and other environmental disadvantages, and that in these cases perhaps also the threshold is somewhat lower because when you say away from environmental protection, because the measure itself affects so many people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1567	Now the representative of Storberget draws up many problem settings related to this field. This matter is now under consideration in the Ministry of the Environment. This means that she will finally make a decision on my table later, and that is why it is difficult for me to go into the specific matter. What we're busy about is getting a good local process, among other things. through this view. Of course, we want to listen, and when decisions are drawn, there should be a holistic decision where we're just trying to fit in with some of the local viewpoints. It'll be important to us. I think it's important to ensure an environmental work in the long term that we can manage to create a Grobot and an understanding of the decisions we finally make.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1572	I thank you for your answer. The Minister for the Environment and I are probably in complete agreement on the need for good practice in this matter, perhaps an extraordinary and better procedure than what we have in other types of matters. This is so extensive, it is so new, and it is quite brutally affecting both those engaged in business and those who have lived in what has been considered a peaceful territory for many years. I am pleased with the positive will of the Council of State in the matter of views. However, I would prefer to challenge him to set very clear boundaries in relation to the environmental standards that will be the basis for this type of case, not just in this specific case. The limits must be clear and the threshold may be lower. And I want to be so bold, since we're approaching the summer vacation, to invite the Council of State to a trip to the Østerdalen – I'd like to join – so that we get the dialogue that's going to take place to ensure that this project gets a happy outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1579	It seems that the representative Storberget is launching a ‘preliminary’. We'll see how the Minister for the Environment looks at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1582	There is not every day that many positive invitations in this question hour. I'll take it with me. I also understand the commitment of the representative Storberget. I think it is very important that we ensure good local processes and see the significance this has for individuals. That we guarantee good processes just in such cases, is something that I'm busy with. What is difficult for me is to give a signal about where I stand in a matter that I have to deal with. I can't do that until I've made my decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1587	With that, the question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-27.ana.ud1751e1598	There is no record.
