ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e45	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e56	Through its draft budget, the Government of Stoltenberg confirms that the Bondevik Government has found the right level of the 2006 budget. This should therefore be a relatively out-of-date budget debate – when there is agreement between the two government options on the main issue, which is the level of the defence budget. The draft budget shows that the change in defence is well under way. All structural measures and organisational changes that should have been implemented in the period up to this year have been implemented – most of them before the deadline – and are well underway to implement what is to be done in the period up to 2008. We are facing further — and demanding — shifts in resources to operational activities and to material investments. This debate has been renewed by the fact that the head of defence has given politicians a clear and very clear challenge, that we will have to make some very fundamental choices in the area of defence in a short time. This is a very clear challenge. The challenge we have been faced with is that we, as politicians, must be clear about the level of defence. I agree with the defence manager's basic assessment that it is worse with an allocation of DKK 30 billion for a structure of DKK 33 billion than a allocation of DKK 28 billion for a structure of DKK 28 billion. But it has to be added that the best thing, of course, would be an allocation and a structure like that. was 30 or 33 – or what you wanted. This is a choice politicians have to make. I understand that the head of defense doesn't want to be a lobbyist for a special level of funding. Just this gives us a very clear responsibility as to where we would like to go. Now the challenge has come. The Minister of Defence must give his answer, and then Stortinget will give his answer. There is no doubt that the defence is in a difficult economic situation. That's why we have to be extremely aware of what we're doing, and not further intensify these difficulties. The problem with the Stoltenberg budget proposal is that it makes it more difficult, among other things. by proposing to invest in a dock in Bergen. It reminds me of what my predecessor as rapporteur in Oppegård once said, namely that you can get a lot of money. It's probably nice to get a dock, but the question is, Is it necessary? It brings in an additional cost of at least 300 million. kr – and without the Government being able to indicate coverage for more than 15 million. kr. It's going to go out on something. We're not told what this'something' is, and that means that the imbalance and the problems you've had, the government is now starting to intensify. This is out of time. Of course, I am aware that this is pure politics, pure local politics in the constituency of the Minister of Defence, but it should not be credited to be more than that. If the Minister of Defence has intended to deny that point, I would like to remind you of what Kristin Halvorsen said in the November 17th newspaper, in an article entitled ‘Ber Valla relax’. As an example of why the LO boss should calm down, Kristin Halvorsen says the following: ‘They have even received a dry dock in Bergen at 300 million.’ Yeah, that's what this is about. It's not about the defense. This can be done in a different way. It's a bet in the northern areas of the budget. I agree with that, as long as you have found an acceptable coverage. I would like to make a small addition to this, namely that the sitting government tends to oversell strongly what it does in the northern regions. What we're talking about here is a couple of tens of millions of chapters that are about billions. There is a broad consensus on Norwegian Northern Region policy. So the small difference is about the few million we're talking about, as well as a very good rhetoric. But that's all. All the seminars we are talking about, massive support for the dialogues outside, support for Norwegian oil transport on the Russian side, wise advance in the part-line negotiations, law enforcement – all this is well-known substance from the past. In the past, too, we've brought up Spanish trawlers. The "Elektron" case was, after all, initiated by me and Kristin Krohn Devold and was inherited by the present government. So let's not oversell what's done. But what's done is good. I'd like to commend that, but it's the expression of common positions in Norway. After all, it's all the previous government that led and built the Coast Guard as systematically as it did. What I don't like about the bet is that the government lets it go out on the fighter aircraft. It's excellent with the bet on Orion planes, but there's a need for us to follow up the fighter aircraft enough. I therefore have this one's in that area. This too is an important question in the north. As far as the fighter planes are concerned, there has also been a little debate, and I understand that. The animal is going to be. The planes are now in excellent condition, but we have to take it inward that at some point the technical life span will be exceeded, and that has to be replaced. Here perhaps comes the most important challenge from the head of defense in his speech, where he said the following: ‘I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise as much as I can that the acquisition of a new fighter aircraft is the defence’s most important task on the investment side in the years to come, because a defence without fighter aircraft is so disabled that it becomes almost uninteresting in the strength and capacity of which it is otherwise in possession.’ Those are strong words. I want to add that then we have to make sure to get the best fighter planes, in relation to what we can afford. The debate has developed so that I almost have the impression that this is a kind of an instrument to get contracts to the other Norwegian business. It's great if you can get a good industrial benefit from the purchase – and that must be a goal for us – but we don't have to turn the premises upside down. Getting the best plane, depending on what the defense needs and what we can afford, must be what controls it all. Here, I think, with respect, that the majority of the committee is quite disagreeable with the wording. So I want to say something about international operations, because at this point there are some changes from the new government. They have been discussed quite extensively. When it's necessary to take this up again, it's because this is something we despite declared openness have to follow out of the Government. In the case of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, SV has gained its position through. So the question is, why do they have it? The government doesn't say anything about that. SV has used two positions as a justification. One is that the operation is led by the Americans. It left the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a privileged position last Wednesday – and thank you for that! I have been plagued with lines from Kristin Halvorsen about such things for four years, and I have to note that Gahr Støre has done something that I have not done. But good it's equally full. The second argument is that there is something wrong with the mission itself, that the terrorists are not allowed to take the whole initiative, but that they are proactive. My question is, how does the Government relate to that justification from the SV side? I would like that to be reflected by the Minister of Defence. Is there anything wrong with the mission itself? When I ask about it, it's because it also has a bearing on something that says in St.prp. No 1, but as the new government has not commented: what do you think about the ISAF/Enduring Freedom association? I hope that the Minister of Defence will be as exemplary as the Minister of Foreign Affairs can park SV on this point. But it is also necessary. I also want to remind you that when the government says it wants a United Nations-led world order, it's real what they do in Iraq and Afghanistan. For the UN Security Council, as late as 13 September this year, they welcomed the role played by the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. So what the government does, after they say they want a United Nations-led world order, is that they turn their backs on the UN Security Council at this point. So a small closing remark: on the radio today there has been a debate about the forces of effort, and those who are presented as experts raise doubts about what the government is saying at that point. To that is to say, at this point, the government is absolutely right. Norway has full freedom to do what we want. What's politically wise is a completely different side of the matter. But you can't get those things mixed up. The government is right at this point. With this, I address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e110	The representative Jan Petersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e115	The Right Party and the Labour Party have had many defence agreements over the years, and both in 2002 and 2004 these parties agreed on, among other things. building new and extended docks by Haakonsvern. The working party accepted, inter alia: the obligation to make a complaint and the system of order. But when the Bondevik budget came for 2006, there was no allocation to Haakonsvern. Why did the right settlement break even before the government change? The second question raised by the representative Petersen concerns what the representative said in his statement, that the framework for 2006 in the Bondevik II proposals and in the Stoltenberg II proposals is the same. Does the representative Petersen think that the framework is sufficient and follow a stepping up plan adopted in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e122	When the previous government thought – and I still believe very strongly – that we do not have room for the dock, it is because we now have to make sure that money and structure go better together. That means it's not just useful to put in a lot of purposes if we don't have enough money. A sober glance at where we stood led us to say no, unfortunately, this cannot be done. That's the reason. If you're going to have a dock to at least 300 million. So the government is not going to be able to tell us what else is going to happen. We don't have to reinforce this, we have to take inwards that we have to give our contribution to balance. And if the government thought that this dock was so important, they should have made sure to get the budget up, so that you could also put this dock in. When you don't, the answer is that you can't get it in. So to the question of whether the defence budget is sufficient. That's an interesting question. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e131	The representative Petersen was in his post very concerned with the structure of the Defence and thus also the imbalance that exists between the structure and the appropriations. Now Petersen has been sitting for four years in a government that, in my opinion, has done absolutely nothing about that imbalance, and the Bondevik government's draft budget this time also does not agree to make any attempt to restore the balance that we must have in Defense. So I am interested to hear what suggestions Petersen has now, which he has not had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e136	As is also evident from the budget proposal, I believe that a significant job has been done to get these things to go together, and precisely that we said no to the dock, among other things, is a concrete expression that we are taking action. Now we've got new challenges from the Chief of Defense. We're going to take them inwards. But I think it's important that we don't put things on our heads now and that the Storting starts as a case manager, and then the department can follow up. Now it's the Ministry of Defence that has to give us its political assessment of this, and then we have to sort out the material we get from the Minister of Defence. Otherwise, I think we can say that we're good at creating budgets that make it start to sort this out altogether, but it's clear that in some areas you can always want more money. Everybody can do that. But we've lived by Carl I. Hagen's words, as we all remember he said, in the opposition you can complain and criticize, and you can spend the same money several times, however, in the position you have to think carefully about and make sure that you are aware of proposals and responsible and serious. That's what we've taken inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e143	Norway has always taken international co-responsibility and must also do so in the future, whether it is in the debt of assistance or in the debt of international operations. I see that the Right Party and the Progress Party write in a note that one sees it as important to contribute to the operations that NATO collectively has decided for. What has been our debate in the last few years is often the debate before any collective decision has been made. We see it in relation to Afghanistan, and we see it partly in relation to the Iraq problem. Does the Right accept that in such a coalition, in such an organization as NATO, there will always be a debate, and that an actual disunity will exist between different countries? Does the Right accept that this must also be the case? Nor should Norway take an active part in these debates and concentrate on, for example: one line or another line in NATO, not just -- as we've done so far -- end up with individual lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e152	I'm not sure if I understood the point, but I can at least try to express a reaction. Of course it is a debate in advance, of course we are taking part in that debate, and of course we have views on it. But that was not the point of the remark. The point is that once you've made a decision, it's created a new fact, and then it's the basis for action. I've seen SV act on the fighter planes in Afghanistan, so I realize that SV has a completely different opinion. There was a compromise in the Government, after which SV's government members went to the Swedish central government, and then they decided that the compromise was not something they agreed to. That's a funny way to do it. You have to start with the disagreement and try to agree, not do as the government does, start with the consensus, and then you have to disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e161	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e165	Defence is undergoing transformation, and is still facing major challenges in the coming years. The budget setting framework means that the Government is continuing the budget at the level of the Bondevik II Government. It shows that the Government maintains a continued strong commitment to the Defence. Although the frameworks are the same, the Government is making a significant re-priority within the framework of strengthening the northern regions – as is the case in the Soria Moria Declaration. In concrete terms, this implies, inter alia, that: the following: it is proposed to increase the investment in the north by adding an increase of 35 million to the P3 Orion business. kr, and the Coast Guard budget is increasing by 15 million. kr. Both of these increases will contribute to improved sovereignty in the north. The Workers' Party sees the north as Norway's main strategic field of action in the coming years. The Working Party therefore believes that the presence of the Defence Force in North Norway should be given higher priority than today and that the role of the Defence Force in environmental monitoring, resource control and maritime rescue work should be strengthened. Over the last few weeks, we've seen that it's absolutely necessary. The coastguard has brought in two jets from Spain and a trawler from Russia who has been engaged in illegal fishing in the Svalbard zone. We are also in favour of increasing participation in the NATO-led ISAF operation in Afghanistan, where appropriations are increasing by 20 million. kr. At the same time, Norwegian participation in UN operations in Africa is stepped up, and further increases in UN involvement may become relevant. It is also gratifying that the music venues in the Defence Agency will be given an opportunity to play more until the next year. The budget will be strengthened by another four million. kr in relation to the proposals of the Bondevik II Government. A lot of people will be happy. The Workers' Party believes it is important that the Defence is actively involved in relevant research and development projects within the cooperation bodies we have with our allies. We believe that Norwegian industry must be involved in such projects. The defence must have a close and constructive relationship with the Norwegian industry. Therefore, there is also broad political agreement in the suspension to secure repurchase regimes in connection with new large acquisitions in the Defence. I believe it is important that the Government has already established a wide-ranging selection of representatives from both the operational, business and industrial sectors, in order to strengthen industrial participation in the possible future acquisition of new fighter aircraft. The Workers' Party is pleased that the Government is following up the Storting's previous decision to invest in an extended dry dock on Haakonsvern. This will ensure that the defence's new frigates, at a cost of a total of DKK 20 billion, have access to docks at all times, and help to preserve an important environment of competence by phasing in the new frigates that are coming in soon. This budgetary position also shows that there is broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian security policy, perhaps wider than ever. A unanimous committee points out that it is clearly in the Norwegian interest to contribute actively and constructively in both the UN and NATO. A unanimous committee further states that Norwegian security is best ensured by contributing to peace, security and stability both globally and in Norwegian neighbourhoods. Norway must therefore demonstrate its willingness and ability to take responsibility for its own safety and be able to meet a wide range of safety challenges quickly. At the same time, we know that today's security challenges are less related to traditional military threats than before, while the possibilities of terrorist attacks, major environmental and natural disasters or major accidents in different sectors of society have increased. The Labour Party therefore considers it important to work for a comprehensive security policy, for enhanced social security and a good balance in the relationship between military and civil protection. The safety of Norway is best ensured through good international work. It is in Norwegian interest that the transatlantic ties remain strong, with good relations with the United States, our allies and friends. Participation in EU security and defence cooperation is also part of this picture. The Government will continue Norway’s membership in NATO and use the organisation actively to develop transatlantic dialogue, partnerships and to promote peacekeeping and disarmament. One important point of the Soria Moria Declaration is that participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Charter and have a clear UN mandate. The UN is the only international body that can legitimize the use of power. There shall therefore be a high threshold for the use of military power. Defence, as mentioned earlier, faces major challenges in the coming years. The Labour Party will have a modern defence, adapted to new security challenges. We see that new and more complex threats increase the need for a flexible defence that can handle a wide range of tasks at short notice and in all relevant areas. On Monday evening, the Chief of Defense, General Sverre Dien, gave a lecture in Oslo Military Society on the status and challenges of modernising the Defence. The Defence Manager pointed to the continuing imbalance between the level of ambition and the level of resources in the Defence, which he pointed out was the result of ‘political undermining of military overburden’. He's probably right about that. The Chief of Defence announced a new military professional investigation, presented to the Minister of Defence in the autumn of 2007. The challenge for the Storting will, when that time comes, not adopt a larger structure than the one we can finance. This we know will give us great challenges. But it is now important to put in place a defence structure that is so robust that it can remain stable for 10–15 years. However, the working party would point out that employees must be actively involved in the conversion processes. A successful transition depends entirely on the participation of employees. The Labour Party also believes that the defence must be careful to outsource and privatise tasks of emergency importance that require social security in a broad sense. It is important that both preparedness, security, costs and socio-economic issues are carefully assessed in deciding on the exclusion and privatisation of defence support functions. I think it is good that the control of the defence economy is now clearly improved. It is also positive that the Council of State quickly asked the head of defence to set up a review committee to look at the use of consultants in defence, especially in the field of ICT. Finally, I would like to say that it is important in the future that the defence budget, like all the other budgets adopted in the Stortinget, be kept within the framework of the annual budget. Then I'd like to address the minority proposal on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e201	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the proposal to which she refers. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e206	I will not mention how unnecessary I think it is to build a new dock in Bergen for well over 300 million. kr, but take for me the government's defence budget and the structure. Defence Chief General Sverre Dien says about the defence budget and the structure of the VG on 30 November that government and big business should clean up. Either they have to lower the ambitions of the defense, or they have to give more money. This is because the level of ambition is significantly higher than the budgeted framework. It is better with a defence structure of DKK 28 billion and a budget of DKK 28 billion than with a budget of DKK 30 billion where the structure is significantly higher. What will the Government do with this, so that the structure and budget are more balanced? Will they further reduce the scope of the Defence and continue to lower the Defence, or will they increase the funding of the Defence? Will the Labour Party really have a credible defence, as the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e213	The Labour Party will have a defence that is both modern and adapted to the security structure and challenges we are now facing. That's not the way the Progress Party puts it, that it's just giving a couple billion more dollars and then you have a structure that's optimal. It's also the case that on previous occasions we've been involved in several defence settlements that suggest that the framework we now have is going to be the one we have in the years to come. This means that the changes in the defence must and must continue, and we need to re-prioritize from the support function to what is called the ‘spice end’ in the defence, so that we get an optimal defence policy and an optimal organisation that performs the tasks that we believe it should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e218	Signe Eye was concerned about what I thought about the dock, and I would therefore like to continue on the same theme, because the government is so sparing with its reasons, and there is also the Workers' Party's fraction in the setting. I have three questions. The first is, is it that the Workers' Party believes that it is not possible to meet the defence's needs in any other way than by building? It's kind of funny when you know what the district industry is like all over the West Coast. The second thing is, is it's not suspicious to put in an investment of over 300 million. kr in a budget, without having any idea how to cover it? This leads me to my last question: Is that really quite right what Kristin Halvorsen said in the November 17 issue, that this is something you do to be pleasant to LO?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e229	No, this is not something the Working Party does to be pleasant. The Labour Party has had as a policy for quite many years that we must get a new and expanded dock on Haakonsvern. It is the Right who has turned this case around. In both 2002 and 2004, the right agreed with the Labour Party that we needed and had to have such a dock. That right turns must be the Right problem and not the Workers' Party. We still believe that we need to maintain competence in relation to the frigates, we need to have a better dock than the one we have today. In fact, the dry dock that is currently on Haakonsvern might need a upgrade of 70 million anyway. kr. So it won't be free, even if you're not willing to expand this dock – it has to be upgraded at least. Then ask the representative Petersen if it is not possible to meet the defence needs in other areas. Well, new docks should also be a contribution where you have to use private ones in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e236	Int. S. No 275 for 2004–2005 from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Workers' Party was in a majority with the Progress Party and SV, who said that Defence Building and its management could no longer dispose of property. They lacked the necessary competence to make arrangements on behalf of the Community. Pending the government's return to Stortinget with a matter of how to recover the financial management of the defense, the defense was to be deprived of its power to sell properties out of public ownership. The majority put forward the following proposals: ‘The measure withdraws the powers of the Ministry of Defence to dispose of property out of public ownership; [[...]] Now, in its draft budget, the Bondevik government proposed that the power to sell properties be restored to the Ministry of Defence. This has not been changed by the Stoltenberg Government in its additional proposition. Then my question is: does this mean that the Workers' Party now trust Defence Building? Does Defence Building now have the ability and competence to make arrangements on behalf of the Community? Or does it only have to do with the fact that you've been in government yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e246	It is correct, as the representative Sahl says, that the Workers' Party agreed that we should return the delegation authority Stortinget had given when it came to selling the defence properties. We had the so-called Eastern Bolärne case. The procedures that were followed in connection with this matter, the Workers' Party believes that we have now gone through, and we have improved very many of the procedures that we had in the past. There has been agreement between what the Workers' Party believes is important to emphasise, inter alia. that municipalities and county councils shall continue to have the opportunity to take over defence property where these are related to outdoor or cultural purposes. I use cultural purposes quite extensively. This is precisely what ensures the protection of public rights. We therefore believe that the scheme will now work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e256	The Swedish Defence Research Institute has recently estimated the costs of operating and re-establishing the current adopted defence structure to approx. DKr 4 billion per year. years above the budgetary framework when we arrive in 2009. This issue has been pointed out by the Progress Party for years, and we have put in all our alternative budget proposals a higher figure than the changing governments – so also this year, where the Progress Party has added SEK 1.7 billion to the Government's budget proposals. In his recent talk in Oslo Military Society, the Chief of Defense expressed concern about developments. He loyally pointed out that some of the responsibility rests on the defense itself, but from my point of view, there can be no doubt that the responsibility rests primarily on the politicians. Year after year, the bulk of population has allocated far less money than the structure suggests. So we've got the so-called double imbalance. So the relationship between structure, tasks and means is in severe imbalance. This situation, created by the majority of the population year after year, cannot continue. The only party on the Stortinget that is willing to intervene in this is the Advance Party. The only thing true in this situation would be that the politicians from the other parties admitted that they do not actually see it as necessary to keep the minimum defense we have today. So what's the consequence of too small appropriations? Yes, among others. The army will have to save SEK 1.8 billion until 2008 to balance. It will mean fewer exercises and affect the training of new soldiers. The management of the marine defense wants one centre of gravity in the north for economic reasons. Three out of four bases can therefore be closed. The Declaration of Accession of the Stoltenberg Government states that the northern regions should be a field of activity. This is bad with reality. Where in the budget has it been made of the means to comply with this? What other consequences will the double imbalance result? In five years’ time, Norway will probably have one of Europe’s most modern marines – perhaps the most modern. But the lack of money will cause the Norwegian Navy to lie down at the dock. In order to keep the new frigates that are soon a reality – already until next year – in operation, the Maritime Defense needs approx. 600 million. kr more this year. Can the Minister of Defense here and now give us an assurance that this money will come? But still there is no funding for new fighter aircraft. To ease the pressure, therefore, the Progress Party proposes to divide the purchase of new fighter aircraft into two blocks, and of course regardless of the choice of aircraft. We believe it must be both economic and technological advantages of making an acquisition in this way. Technologically, the Defence Force will be able to assess new types of fighter aircraft or other types of airspace combatants that are being developed towards the acquisition of block two fighter aircraft at a later stage. The progress team sees clear benefits of acquiring a smaller number of fighter aeroplanes as soon as possible so that overlaps between the existing and the forthcoming aeroplane type can be as painless as possible. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals to this effect. Similarly, we are promoting proposals for ‘equalising development contracts between Norway and the two projects JSF and Eurofighter, economic and political’. We also ask the Government to ensure that, in the case of the acquisition and maintenance of new fighter aircraft, satisfactory industrial benefits are ensured for Norway. Furthermore, there is no funding for the acquisition of new transport aircraft. This has been proposed by the Progress Party in Stortinget on several occasions, without hearing from the other parties. The Progress Party now sees it as irresponsible, both safety and financial, to continue the operation of our C-130 transport aircraft. Among other things, the wings have to be changed due to wear and tear and for safety reasons, resulting in large financial counts. The Progress Party therefore asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget a plan for the acquisition of new transport aircraft, and proposes this. We also want to focus on our Orion fleet, as these are also planes where the time of replacement is fast approaching. Capacity is critical for the monitoring of Norwegian waters and territories. The Progress Party therefore requests the Government to initiate an assessment of the condition of the Orion aeroplanes, as well as a plan for the renewal of the corresponding capacity. We are also promoting this. Otherwise, we will refer to our alternative state budget. We propose to establish a foreign budget in which large acquisitions carried out outside the borders of Norway are charged. We see it as necessary to finance, among other things. new transport aircraft through the foreign budget, so that this does not affect ordinary investment budgets of the Defence. Furthermore, we also find it natural that other large material acquisitions from abroad are financed in this way. But still the government hasn't set aside enough funds for new MTBs, new armoured vehicles, new tankers, new helicopters to replace Bell 412 and new submarines, to mention one of the most important of all. I have to ask: does the government want to take a force and show the will to get the Defense back on his feet? Today, we really do not have an army structure. What is the army today, but does the government see that HV is being laid down? It seems like we're already dealing with sea and air HV. If we continue with today's budget level, we may have to imagine that Rena clay is being laid down, that the frigates are being leased out, and perhaps shutting down the Air Force in today's form. Something has to happen here! Otherwise, the Progress Party believes that there is a clear need for a better presence of the Coast Guard in our northern regions and otherwise along our long-distance coast. In recent years there has been a negative trend in the presence and number of days sailing. Recent episodes in the north have made the need clear. We believe that more money has to be allocated for operation. The Progress Party sees it as natural to increase transfers to the acute part of Defence, taking into account today's security policy situation. Maritime defence is in a situation where the use of ships in international operations is a constant concern. Furthermore, we are very concerned that the presence of the Navy in the northern regions is considerably strengthened. In particular, we must look at the presence and focus of Defence in the context of today's and tomorrow's political and military challenges. This leads to high standards of competence, flexibility and materiality. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the operational budget, as proposed by the Progress Party, in order to ensure that the tasks can be properly resolved. In addition, maritime defence has major challenges in the training of crews to an ever-growing fleet. The last few years' budgets have undermined the army's ability to solve the assigned tasks, and this has resulted in an alleged over-exploitation. The army needs to increase the training and procurement of materials in the exercise and training context. At the same time, there is a clear turn towards a greater focus on the north, and this demands that the defence has a significant presence in North Norway. The Progress Party considers it necessary to increase the Home Security budget in order to implement the necessary training and education. Similarly, the Home Office is facing major challenges materially. It is important to take into account the recent development and use of civil protection and peacetime commands in the context of terrorism preparedness and the like. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left propose that 314 million be invested. kr in the extension of the dry dock at Haakonsvern. However, in order to achieve this, it is clear that other important purposes either need to be eliminated or pushed out, and this will reinforce the long-wearing imbalance of defence. The Party of Advances and the Right considers that Norwegian shipyards are otherwise and in the vicinity with the appropriate capacity to carry out the necessary maintenance tasks for the major maritime defence vessels. The Progress Party and the Right therefore want it not to be invested in new and expanded frigate docks at Haakonsvern, and proposes this. Over recent years, the defence has disposed of a number of superfluous properties. The Party is committed to paying greater attention to the public interest criteria in the event of the disposal of defence properties. We believe it is important that the defense maintains good contact with the local environments where the defence has or has had activity. Defence is well served by the fact that the community and the public in general feel that defence contributes to the strengthening of local communities. We will stress that municipalities and county councils have limited resources to secure properties from the Defence when they are purchased at market price or price. The Progress Party believes that strong local interests need to be safeguarded as much as possible by the disposal of defence properties. It may seem strange to the population that when a public authority has a property that it does not need, while another public authority has a very important purpose the property can be used for, but has poor advice, it is therefore not possible to simply transfer the property from one authority to another. It is the taxpayers who have paid for the properties. All common sense should then mean that the properties are transferred free of charge between public authorities. This is not the case today and therefore the guidelines should be amended. The Progress Party therefore promotes proposals for the change of guidelines for the disposal of the property of the Defence. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. The nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. Our security policy situation is complex, not least in view of our geopolitical and resource situation. Historically, it has been of interest for contentious parties to be able to use bases on Norwegian soil in the context of the North Atlantic maritime route battle. During World War I, a strong Norwegian defense deterred some from getting along. During World War II, there was a race to fill the void created by the Norwegian disarmament in the 1930s. This ratio is still valid. Let it be a little thoughtful for some people each! We are all aware of the valuable deposits of oil and gas in the large sea areas for which we are responsible – in addition to the rich fish stocks. We are also well aware of the unexplained border and responsibilities in these areas. Leave this to mind, also for our military authorities! Northern areas, both in water and in land, are likely to be one of the most important areas of national security in the coming years. Finally, I would like to point out that the largest single factor in defence is staff, and the Progress Party believes that this group needs to be taken more care of. A motivated and well-trained staff will ensure the competence and productivity of the defence, which the Defense will undoubtedly need in the time to come. In the end, I will present the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e296	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e302	As you know, policies are about getting an impact on their political positions and issues. It's the results that count for our residents and voters. The budget of the Advance Party for Defence is DKK 1.7 billion above the Government's proposal, and today, in its intervention, the representative Width has at least doubled the estimate he wants to take. I want to ask: what is realism in putting on such sums, and why does the Progress Party report itself in a way out of the defence debate in this way? Are these not the results that also count for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e309	Well, it's the results that count, we can agree on that. But the results do not come unless the appropriations are available, and so they are not either with the Bondevik II Government's draft budget or with the Government's draft budget this time. We've added $1.7 billion, yes, and that's very realistic. The representative forgets that we have added NOK 2 billion to our foreign budget, which is also in our alternative budget. So this is how we try to fill the big gap -- the four billion that we're talking about is actually in here. Spending money on a foreign budget for defence purposes means that we have to be right for both economic and strategic reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e314	The Progress Party, together with the Right, looks forward to Norway making important contributions by taking part in the Nordic military intervention force in the EU. We also know that the Treaty of Nice, in a way, established the ESDP. However, there is no collective takeover of a national public defence that is still in the EU. We also know that the process that took place in relation to the new Constitutional Law in the EU did not exist due to France and the Netherlands. Is it, then, the right of Norway, which is not a member of the EU, to engage in EU security and defence cooperation, which, in the near future, has come some particularly important step forward under the Treaty of Nice in 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e321	Yes, to what extent we are concerned, there is no doubt that we can be discussed. I don't feel like it. But I think it is important that we also look towards Europe. Although we are not in the European Union, we cannot just forget that it is a Europe further south of us. And to the extent that the European Union is interested in and agrees that one should build a strength, yes, we should also contribute here, even if we are not members. It is for safety reasons. I think that also serves Norway's cause, even though the Progress Party believes that NATO is the pillar of defence and our main point of reference. It is no secret that the so-called EU army, at least primarily, will be built up by NATO's own forces and by NATO's own material and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e326	The Progress Party justifies its defence policy in a threat form that may appear somewhat different from the Defence. It may seem like a building up an artificial threat image to defend and maintain a defense model from the cold days of war. You keep coming back to an East-West conflict. The setting reads as follows: ‘The increasingly ongoing attitude of the Russian side in these areas, which is now also expressed in official documents, reinforces this issue.’ Then my question is: what is the current position referred to here from the Russian side, and in what documents is it that this current position is expressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e336	It is quite significant that the Christian People's Party has not understood that there is still a threat picture here in the world, and a threat picture in the north. I think that's quite eye-catching, because everyone else has understood and seen it. Everyone else has seen what has happened recently from the Russian side in the north, at sea. Is there any reason to believe that similar things cannot happen on land? Isn't the Christian People's Party concerned that we should have a defense that should always be able to face a threat picture on Norwegian soil? I think it is quite alarming that the Christian People's Party does not see that there is a threat picture. It almost seems as if they could be interested in putting down the minimum defense we have, which I was inside in my post, and in that case it is even more alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e344	Outside Washington, D.C., in Arlington, is the United States site of honor. Here we find an eternal fire over the tombs of former President John F. Kennedy. Just next door is the brother, Robert Kennedy, who was killed in a election fight in the 1960s. He promised and had as one of his election campaigns to start pulling the American forces out of Vietnam if he was elected. We all know that it didn't go like that, and we'll never know what could have happened if he had become president. What we know is that Kennedy's brothers brought new hopes to the world. In the U.S., one believed that civil rights should be obtained, one believed that anti-corruption work would be done. Internationally, we all took part in the Kennedy Brothers' work to end war. They gave hope to a whole new generation; they gave hope for a whole new value. 14 days ago, the new president of Iraq, Jalal Talabani, said that next year, one could start pulling out American troops from Iraq. The signal suggests that the U.S. is already coming back next year to pick up 30,000 soldiers. There is no doubt that Iraq's new president will send out such a signal, because he wants to say to the opinion that there will be an end to foreign troops in Iraq. He thinks it might be a good idea to calm down against the elections in December. There is no doubt that the election and the Iraqi government's ability to direct Kurds, Shia Muslims and Sunni Muslims in the same direction will be decisive to bring security to an Iraq, and that one can look forward to a homeland without foreign troops, is what is important. We must avoid a Vietnamisation of the Iraq conflict. There is a rapid cessation of the presence of foreign troops. Among other things, this is behind when the Government wants to withdraw Norwegian staff and training officers from Iraq. What we get from excess military capacity after the withdrawal of ‘Enduring Freedom’ and troops in Iraq should go to the planned upgrading of the new-old United Nations orientation to Norway in international operations. U.S. President George W. Bush recently presented a plan for saying, among other things: is about to be in Iraq for as long as it is necessary, but once the Iraqis themselves are able to solve the security problems, a start will be made. The demand for withdrawal grew in the United States, not least because of the large number of dead soldiers, some 2,100 U.S. soldiers. Of enormous importance are also the enormous losses of civil life. News Our country reports at least 5,000 civilian casualties this year. The American research agency Brookings Institution operates with 9 000 civilians killed this year. 5,000 killed civilians are more than the total losses in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict over the last 20 years, reports Our Land. This shows the dimensions when we also know that polarization, perhaps an unnecessary polarization, in the region has not least its roots in the unresolved Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The criticism of the war on terrorism is generally growing in relation to the treatment of prisoners, with probably secret prisons in Europe and the transport of prisoners and the use of airspace and aerodromes for this transport. The war on terror can lead to the end that we, who count ourselves to be legal states, end up at the same level as terrorists. There are rules both for war and for peace. We know that they are all likely to be followed, not least by a country like Norway, which aims to participate internationally, in practice with both military and civil decisions. Whether we like it or not, there is an international debate about international operations, internally in NATO, internally in the United States, and then we should also be able to have the same debate in Norway. I have noticed that Germany's new Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel, maintains Schrøder's old policy, the old lines, that not one German soldier should be present in Iraq. Spain and other NATO countries insist that ISAF and OEF should be separated. There is no shortage of tasks in Afghanistan. We're probably going to be there for a long time, we're going to be there through ISAF, and we're also going to listen to the closest civil recruits working with our soldiers in ISAF; there may be anthropologists, there are also international law lawyers. We see that the Norwegian defense is getting better and better at attracting broader knowledge than just the military. We know that we're going to get something in the long term, and it'll probably say stepping down sharp missions and building up development assistance. But what's going to be interesting is there's a sheep in the long term when it's related to civil-military cooperation. I'm glad that it looks like we have a Norwegian defense that is able to meet the challenges of the new enemy cars out there. Aggression is not allowed only; one must run at least one two-track line. To the budget that's ahead: there's more in the north, there's more to Coast Guard, and we've stepped down on fighter planes. We don't need so many fighter planes, so we've cut a few million there and put it over on Orion, to be present in the north. There's no doubt about it. Then we've undoubtedly got a good recording of the Chief of Defense's speech here by day. I thought it was very positive, because it was critical both to us politicians and to the professional militants, precisely because he says that it is political undermining of military domination. So the contact between this hall, the government and the professional militaries, and the state council, of course, should clearly be even better. We should in the long term be able to clean up the economy, and then we should at least not invest in error anymore. At least we can't afford that. Then we should innovate that operating costs that come with already agreed investments can cause us major problems, as it has been mentioned earlier here. So we know that supposedly, public Private Cooperation, OPS, is not the way to go, not least when we have a state with such strong economic muscles as we have in Norway. It doesn't pay to reduce and at the same time add the same people as consultants to triple pay afterwards. In order to be successful, we also need a dialogue with the organisations of those added, with regard to both the addition criteria and any downgrading processes. From the SV page we are set to participate in the conversion process that is going on. We have to see that there's a good balance between adding and adding. It may seem that we have carried on too many tasks, which we expect fewer and fewer people to be able to do. But there's no doubt that we have a problem when we keep adding a budget of 30 billion dollars and 15 000 dollars and the statistics suddenly show that we're down to 25 pst. reduced operational capability. Susceptible bases and other infrastructure need to be slendered. Where it is to be done, I am not able to say today, but I believe there should be a good dialogue between the Storting and the Council of State on how to do this. I've got a signal – how good they are, I don't know – that there's a systematic centralization from north to south. I have received some single examples. Some claim that there is a trend. We will have to take that seriously if this is true. For that to be true, we have to do something about it. But at least we have to be able to say that it is going to be invested in operational units. We're going to be there, and Norway is perhaps one of the countries that uses the Defense most when it's due to be present in the practical everyday life, not least in relation to the North. There we are, and there we take environmental crime seriously. In addition, we show sovereignty, so that the administration of the Barents Sea is also accepted in Europe. So -- I see the clock is running, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e370	The President fully agrees. But maybe it'll be able to bring what's left over, in answer to the lines. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e375	It was interesting to hear Jacobsen's articles. He's talking about the north, he's talking about the need to bet on operational units, which are all costing money. What's interesting is that this must be a situation for SV where it has suddenly come up for them that running a defense also costs money. SV has always been involved in granting at least the defense, never wanted to realize that we need a defense, and that it costs money. This time they are involved in a draft budget which is the best of the times for SV. Then I wonder: Are these new signals from SV? Does SV innovate that the defense actually needs money, and that we need a big defense that's going to be operational, as Jacobsen says? It is very interesting to hear if SV now comes with new signals in relation to the Norwegian defence, as they agree to give as much money as they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e382	First of all, we take inward that we are in government, and there's talk of getting a budget settlement. We've been able to do that. I would like to admit that I had a lot of cuts that I could have thought I had driven harder on. But debate is a debate, and then one will have to come to terms with it. That being said, there is no doubt that SV has also allowed up to NOK 26–27 billion in the previous budget for defence. What has been said before, that SV has our irresponsible and has no defence error, is totally unfounded. But we have to play $3 to 4 billion under the normal budgets. I also take up the challenge from the head of defence, who says quite clearly that he would rather have a budget that might be $28 billion, but then we politicians have to be so clear that we give tasks that cost $28 billion. That process and that debate we in SV are very much interested in. I believe that the possibilities for getting a smaller defence budget are primarily good governance of the economy and by stopping making wrong investments. Then maybe we can get down a lot further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e390	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government Parties agree: «It is in Norwegian interest that we have a United Nations-led world order. Therefore, the Government will work to strengthen the UN and international law.» In Stortinget on 15 November this year, it was liberatingly clear from Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who said that ‘Operation Enduring Freedom has a clear UN mandate. There is no doubt about it». In the same debate, the representative Jacobsen found reason to say that the ‘UN is on its way to becoming a sand striker’. After all, the conclusion must be that SV is in favour of the Soria Moria declaration. SV is in favour of his own Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. SV is in favour of the UN Security Council. And the fact that SV is indifferent to itself, we already know. If we are to have a UN-led world order, one should not undermine the UN leadership, namely the Security Council, and that is exactly what SV is doing. It's unfortunate for Norway, for our allies, for the United Nations, and not least for our own crews both in ISAF and in the OEF.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e404	The debate about the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence that we had a while ago was not least influenced by the representatives of the Right, who, I believe, boasted that – by SV’s influence on Norwegian security, defence and foreign policy. I'm very happy about that. I let go of ourselves, and nothing is better than that others do. When it comes to UN mandate and their basis, there should always be a debate. The only sure thing you can say about such things is that power is right, power gives right. That's the problem. If we are to get what is the goal, to get a United Nations-led world order, there must be a better basis, and we must not allow the United Nations to be pressured into making decisions that are not really going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e411	SV has had a fairly steep re-scholing curve in Norwegian defence policy after they entered the government position. The SV’s current work programme states that ‘a much greater emphasis should be placed on conflict prevention and peaceful conflict resolution’ in Norway’s international policy. And since Bjørn Jacobsen himself mentioned the Middle East, my question will go in the direction of it. In the Middle East, Norway has long traditions of being a mercenary for peace, and Norway has great confidence both in Israelis and in Palestinians. In the media, SV has announced a forthcoming action for anti-Israeli markings, including among others. boycott of Israeli food and weapons. Does SV believe, also in the government position, that this is the way ‘Norway should pursue an independent, consistent and active policy for peace, conflict resolution and fair peace building’ in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e422	It's not just in the media it's been up. That's what we put in proposals from the SV's side of the previous period, when the then government was going to work on this in the UN, precisely because the UN is the organization that created Israel, and that has also made a lot of resolutions to try to get Israel to follow international rules. But of course, a consumer boycott of Israeli goods must create the user movement itself. What we've said from SV's side is that it's not unnatural not to have any kind of military cooperation with Israel. I don't think we've sold weapons to Israel, but we're not going to have any military political cooperation at all with Israel. Putting power behind the demands on Israel is not a bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e437	Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party is not represented in the Defence Committee. Unfortunately, the election result did not allow Christian People's Party membership in all the Committees of the Storting. But we promise that we will actively monitor what is going on in the field of security and defence policy. We support the Right-wing proposal that has been included in the vote that we are considering. The draft budget of the Bondevik II government was a good budget to enable the long-term plan for 2005-2008 to be followed up. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important to establish a better balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability. The Christian People's Party wants a defence that is an important instrument for Norwegian political authorities, a defence that can safeguard and promote Norwegian interests through the ability to address a wide range of security challenges, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore important that the further conversion and modernisation of defence be carried out. The development of Defence to become a modern, flexible and ally-fitted security policy instrument must continue. From our point of view, it is positive that the new government is essentially choosing to continue the arrangements and policies of the Bondevik government. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the main lines of defence, foreign and security policy are firmly established. It is therefore good to see that an overall committee in the vote indicates that there is broad agreement on the main lines of our security policy, that the main pillars are the UN and NATO, and that it is clear in Norwegian interest to contribute actively and constructively both in the UN and NATO context. The Christian People's Party believes multinational cooperation will become increasingly important to the Defence. In areas where we have become too small to maintain capacity on a national basis, for example: in the field of logistics and support functions, we need to seek multi-national solutions in the framework of NATO. Norway must contribute more to the UN forces and actively participate in international operations. The UN is undoubtedly playing a key role in Norwegian security policy. And within the overall framework laid by the UN, NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy.For the Christian People's Party, committed ally cooperation in NATO has an overall meaning. The Christian People's Party believes it is important not to create a contrast between the UN and NATO or other organisations. The UN has, as the Committee refers to in the nomination, asked regional organisations, such as the EU, NATO and the African Union, to assume greater responsibility for international peace and security. The Christian People's Party believes Norway should take an active part in international operations. However, it is important to have a framework for which international operations by Norwegian soldiers may be involved. Norway's participation must be based on the legality of international law and the legitimacy of the people. Norway shall not engage in preventative warfare and pre-emption attacks which do not have a clear grounding in international law. These are fundamental and indispensable principles of the Christian People's Party, and in the Stortinget there is broad agreement on the criteria for Norwegian participation in international operations. For the Christian People’s Party, it is also important to stress that the safety of Norwegian personnel must be of the highest priority. As regards Norway's involvement in Afghanistan, the Christian People's Party supports the government's policy. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field of action over the past few years, and this priority is firmly established. Through our contributions to ISAF, we actively support NATO's involvement in the country, which is a broad political uprising both in NATO and here at home. The special strength contribution to the American-led Operation Enduring Freedom ends in January, after a six-month commitment. In addition, Norway will offer three to four F-16 fighter aeroplanes to ISAF for a period of three months in 2006. It has been problematic about whether these fighter aircraft will have to ‘help’ the Americans. The SV national meeting has even issued a resolution to this effect. It must be said that the government parties send out very cracking signals in this matter, but the Christian People's Party chooses to add the kindness and listen to the fact that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have repeatedly spoken out from this pulpit. The agreement concluded between ISAF and OEF stands by: In emergency situations, aeroplanes under the ISAF command could be asked to assist ground personnel from the OEF. The opposition to this seems to be in a perception of the OEF as an illegitimate operation. It is good that it is clear from government teams in various contexts that the government believes the OEF has a clear UN mandate. It seems that SV is still alone in questioning this UN legitimacy. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Government will continue to contribute to increased security and reconstruction of Iraq. It's important that we take our share of that responsibility. The Christian People's Party believes it is unwise for the Government to terminate Norwegian involvement in NATO's training mission. This is an operation which a unanimous NATO decided to set up and which is based on a clear mandate under international law from the UN following the invitation of the Iraqi authorities. All allies support the mission. This is important, both to put the Iraq crisis behind us and to demonstrate cohesion in the alliance. This has been a great success. Iraqi authorities are very concerned about the continuation of the NATO training mission in Iraq. Increased security and reconstruction of Iraq is the goal, and the Christian People's Party believes that we should contribute to this, rather than emphasising symbolism policies and political markers. In addition, the Christian People's Party will clarify the importance of the defence taking good care of the soldiers sent out on international missions. In this context, I would like to mention specifically the National Military Outpatient Clinic, which the Defense established in 2004 for injured personnel, veterans and relatives, offering long-term follow-up in health, insurance and social security matters. The testing project on the psychological/psychosomatic follow-up of personnel who have suffered psychological damage following international operations is a very good response. We look forward to the presentation of the report in January 2006. The Christian People's Party welcomes the Bondevik government's proposal to double the funds earmarked for financial compensation for soldiers who have suffered psychological sensitivities in international operations. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Storting is adopting this today. The Christian People's Party will also take into account that a thorough learning of qualities such as mental strength, cultural understanding, morals and international law is important in preparing the soldiers to meet tough days in the operations in which they are involved. In the case of the dry dock at Haakonsvern, the Christian People's Party fully supports the opinion of the committee's chairman. So I don't want to repeat it. I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the majority of the Committee: ‘There is no investment in new and expanded frigate docks at Haakonsvern.’ Finally, there are many fine words in the Soria Moria Declaration that the new government sees the northern regions as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. We have noticed that the Minister of Defence has promised that the defence presence in North Norway will be maintained at a high level and that coastal preparedness will be given high priority. There are also signs in the budget that point forward. These are promising words for the continent, and we hope the words are translated into action. However, it may seem that these words do not entirely harmonize with what the head of defence said in his speech in Oslo Military Society earlier this week, in which he clearly signaled a clear need to rationalize the defence activity in the north. It would be interesting to hear the Minister of Defence's view of what the defence in the north is actually facing in the near future. The Christian People's Party will refer to the important work carried out in the previous social security ageing period. Security policy today is much more than safeguarding and defending its own territory. Society faces a more diffuse threat picture than before, the characteristic of moving transitions between national and international and between peace, crisis, armed conflict and war. This demands work for increased social security on a broad front in the future, and the Christian People's Party will be involved in taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e492	After hearing Jan Petersen's posts and replies and the representative Sahl right now, I have to ask the Christian People's Party: Do the former government parties think that all the 2004 conciliation decisions can be broken – since the Bondevik government broke the decision on dry dock, and since the same parties follow this up here? So it's right, as the representative says, that Operation Enduring Freedom of course has a United Nations mandate. Now it's like we don't have the capacity to participate in all of the UN mandated operations. In the same opinion on the June 2004 long-term plan, a unanimous Defence Committee said that ‘within the capacity limits of Norway, participation in UN operations should increase’. Does the Christian People’s Party still agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e499	On the last question, I can answer an unequivocal yes. The Christian People's Party is concerned that Norway should participate to a greater extent than today in UN operations, and not least in operations related to the current developments in Africa, where we believe that Norway should be more involved and involved and take responsibility. Then to the dry dock. There have been certain things since the dry dock was adopted in an agreement here in Stortinget, among others. that the price has been raised considerably. In addition, it is quite clear that there is a situation in the workshop industry in the area that suggests that there is private capacity to carry out the same tasks. Then we also know that a repurchase agreement has been concluded with Navantias, which states that at least two Norwegian shipyards should be given competence to enable them to compete in the fight for the maintenance of our frigates. This is why we've taken the position we've taken now, as a member of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e506	I thank you for an interesting contribution from the representative Sahl of the Christian People's Party. I am particularly pleased that he does not want to spend money on a dry dock in Bergen – I think that is very positive. My question is, the ratio is structure/budget. Then there are several things you can ask Christian People's Party about. We all agree that we should give priority to our northern regions. But at the same time you read and hear that there are concrete plans to lay down, among other things. three marine bases — reducing from four to one. We need to reduce the number of military camps in North Norway. In addition, the Christian People's Party, when they were in government, has helped to reduce the number of Homeland soldiers from 83,000 to 50,000, so I'm a little uncertain about what the Christian People's Party really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e514	I would like to thank the representative Per Roar Bredvold for his recognition of what we agree on in the vote. So it is that in the past it was mainly SV and the Progress Party that went in different directions in relation to what was the main flow when it came to the defence budget. At the moment, SV is in position and has moved into the community, while the Progress Party has considerably more resources that signal that you can use. Within the framework that we have to use for the Defense at the moment, the Christian People's Party is committed to following up what the Defence Chief signaled in his speech, namely that we need to get a closer link between the structure we have and the means we have to use. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is essentially that the northern regions should have their important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e523	The Chairman of the Committee invited us to a fundamental debate on defence, and I think it is appropriate to consider what kind of international operations we should support, and on what basis. Then there's at least two starting points. The first is that Norway must support international operations primarily by providing us with allied support. From the discussions that have taken place, I see very clearly that the Right is there. The second is that we should participate in international operations to support peace processes, primarily UN-led operations and at least with a clear UN mandate. The first starting point may lead to Norway supporting a power of its own acting on the basis of major interests and committing human rights violations, as has been done by the United States in Iraq. The world has not become a safer place after the Iraq operation. On the contrary, the danger of terrorism is greater. Does the Christian People’s Party agree? Now that the Christian People's Party is out of government, I would like to ask the representative Sahl to clarify who the Christian People's Party really agrees with – the Right or the new Red-Green majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e534	The Christian People's Party stands for the same policy whether we are in government or we are outside and in opposition. The absolutely indispensable principle of the Christian People's Party is that when we are going to participate in international operations, it must be under international law and they must have a UN mandate. In addition, it is equally clear to the Christian People's Party that we are part of an alliance called NATO. We see that the UN is now much more asking NATO for help in international conflicts. Of course, the Christian People's Party supports the operations in which NATO is involved, where international law is in place, and where there is a UN mandate. The Christian People's Party has been in charge of the same government policy, and so does it outside government. I believe that this clearly constructs a distinction between the Right and Christian People's Party that does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e546	The Central Party believes that our security is best ensured through good international cooperation and through good interaction with all our neighbouring countries. I have noticed that the Government will continue Norway's membership in NATO and use the organisation actively to develop a transatlantic dialogue and partnership and to promote peacekeeping, disarmament, arms control and conflict prevention. Participation in international operations shall be enshrined in the UN Charter and shall have a clear UN mandate. The UN is the only international body that can legitimize the use of power. It shall be a high threshold for the use of military power. Norway shall not engage in preventive attacks not authorised by the United Nations. In concluding agreements to make Norwegian forces available in international operations, clear guidelines for compliance with Norway’s international obligations under international conventions need to be established. The government commits to continue the budgetary level recommended by the Bondevik II Government, which implies a continued commitment to the Defence. The Defence Budget has a marked re-priority to strengthen operational activity in the northern regions, as well as to strengthen efforts in UN operations and the NATO Afghanistan operation – ISAF. In relation to ISAF, the Government will strengthen Norway’s efforts by contributing three to four F-16 aeroplanes for a three-month period in the first half of 2006 and the Norwegian involvement in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation in Afghanistan will end in January 2006. The NATO force in Afghanistan will extend its presence to more unstable areas. Therefore, the need to ensure the security of the forces increases. Air support plays an important role in NATO’s safety protection in Afghanistan. Just as US-led Operation Enduring Freedom aircraft can assist NATO forces in emergencies, NATO aircraft may be requested to support coalition forces. But these are exceptional events, and the planes will in any case remain under NATO command. It is important that Norway participates with staff officers in the ISAF command structure. This will ensure that aeroplanes do not undertake any tasks contrary to the mandate of ISAF. The centre party is concerned that Norway remains a credible ally and contributes to UN and NATO operations. It is imperative that we have mutual agreements between ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF in relation to emergency air support. Of course, in order to expect help, we have to be willing to provide help. The centre party wants a modern defence adapted to new security challenges. New and more complex threats increase the need for a flexible defence capable of dealing with a wide range of tasks. Coastal preparedness shall be given higher priority than today and the role of the Defence Agency in relation to environmental monitoring and maritime rescue activities will be strengthened. The defence must be more than at present directed towards enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our seas, especially in the north. The government sees the north as Norway’s main strategic field of activity. It is therefore important and right that the presence of the defence should be maintained at a high level in North Norway and that coastal preparedness should be given higher priority than today. The role of the defence in relation to environmental monitoring and resource control shall be strengthened as mentioned. The centre party is pleased that the government of Stoltenberg II, in its additional proposal, proposes an increase of 15 million. kr to enhance the ability of the Coast Guard to perform its duties. This strengthening is very important in order to provide room for increased operational activity and to improve the ability of the Coast Guard to manage Norwegian sovereign rights and the ability to meet potential environmental challenges along the coast of North Norway. There is a close link between the increase in the Coast Guard Operational Budget and an increased maritime surveillance using P-3 Orion aeroplanes from Andøya. The centre part is therefore very satisfied with the increase of 35 million. kr on this budget line in addition to an increase of the same amount for increased presence in North Norway for Marinen vessels. The central party considers these increases in the defence budget and 10 million. kr for increased research and development through the Barents 2020 project shows a clear North-Area effort by the Government of Stoltenberg II and supports it. It is therefore with some wonder that I record that the committee leader calls this «retorics». I believe that this is an expression of a clear objective, and if we have not managed to reverse the budget sufficiently, it shows that we are following up the words of the objective with budgetary change. At least it's a step in the right direction in relation to what the Bondevik II government proposed. There's a lot of change going on in the Defense Department. There is an important signal from the Government that they will implement measures to improve financial management in Defence. In its answer to questions raised by the Defence Committee in a letter dated 18 November of this year, the Minister of Defence confirmed that the Government will return to the Stortinget in the spring 2006 session on the matter. This is also related to what has happened recently, in the context of downsizing, privatisation and tenders, and horizontal interaction in the Defence. It is important to review experience with different forms of public-private solutions. The government has in its proposal to build an extended dry dock at Haakonsvernner set of 50 million. NOK 314 million in cost estimate. kr to meet the needs of the new frigates for service and maintenance. Questions have been asked about whether this estimate of costs will be kept by some teams. If it proves that this is not the case, I would assume that the Minister of Defence considers it reasonable to give the Storting feedback. The policy of the outgoing government focused on international conflicts. In the future, the Central Party will be concerned that our international commitment is being reversed towards NATO and UN operations. At the same time, we must look at how the defence can best be organised in relation to a clearer presence in the northern regions. The central party will in the defence context ahead to clarify what we mean is in a north-facing direction. We are very pleased that the Soria Moria Declaration makes it clear that there is a need for a review to strengthen the presence and sovereignty of the defence in the north. Therefore, it is also important to consider whether today’s restructuring measures are in line with the Soria Moria declaration. We assume, in line with the Soria Moria declaration, that political decisions on the location of units in the north are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e575	It was interesting that the representative from the Center Party mentioned the dock in Bergen. He and the party might be a little worried about 314 million. kr will hold, and therefore the Minister of Defence will be asked to come back to Stortingen to inform us about it. But then what? Are we going to give more money to a dock? In addition to this, my question goes on about what the Center Party did in the election campaign. Then the first candidate from Hedmark promised, among others. that the War School should be moved from Linderud to Rena. As far as I know, the Central Party has a lot of that in its program as well. The first candidate traveled around Hedmark and promised that this would work out. Then it would be interesting to hear how far you have come to work moving the War School from Linderud to Rena. I come from this county myself, so it's clear that I'm very excited about it. But I have also spoken with other representatives from the Government, among others. from the Workers' Party, and they do not quite agree that it is a trick. That's why it might be interesting to hear how far the Center Party has really come with that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e582	As far as the construction of docks in Bergen is concerned, I had no other idea for my statement than that I find it natural that Stortinget will receive a response if the budget estimate does not hold. So we'll discuss what to do. I guess the answer was not given in advance. In the case of the first candidate from Hedmark, who went out on behalf of the Center Party and promised this change, I cannot say anything but that I assume that this will be an internal discussion in the Government and in the large party group to see if it is possible to reach it. Let's do it first and foremost there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e589	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e592	We have had a long tradition in Norway to discuss security policy. In recent years, we have also had a certain impetus to discuss defence policy, read the structure and organisation of defence. What we now certainly have to do, both the committee position and the debate, is to see the relationship between security and defence policy and what that means. Then I think we can all quickly agree that none of us have been awarded a crystal ball where we can look into the future and be absolutely sure of what the security challenges are. This post I'm going to use to reflect something over it. I want to start with something that has to be completely obvious to us. It is the geographical location of Norway. Geopolitically, Norway is located so that we go from 4° east to 31° east. On the 31° east we are far east of the world, away from the height of Cyprus. We have a difficult territory, with a long and comprehensive Schengen border, such as. is of such size that when it comes to those who represent the EU system in Brussels, they do not fully understand what it is, because they have an image of maritime borders linked to migration across the Mediterranean. On the other hand, a sea border is as large as ours, in itself a challenge when you move a piece south of the world, south of Copenhagen. But it's well understood when you move across the sea, to British and Americans, who have basically practiced in these areas, and know what it looks like. In fact, here we have both a security and defence policy challenge that we need to take on the deepest seriousness. In this situation, we know that in this geopolitical landscape, in the northern regions, one of the three largest remaining reserves of oil and gas is on this globe. Everyone knows that they are located in the Middle East, in Central Asia and in the northern areas north of Norway, under the polar regions. This is geopolitically incredibly important. It is important in terms of security policy. It is a matter of defence policy. It is important in a resource, environmental and fisheries policy context. In short, it is important in terms of everything that social policy is all about. I want to say it this way, because we can't behave like this in Norway – I don't rely on any threat assessments in relation to our neighbor who is different from the ones that appear in the vote, I don't rely on the cold war assessments – and it would be naive of a small country that is neighboring to a great power, that we don't take this inward. The small country must at least act in such a way that it is predictable, present and clear where to be. Let me show you that we have, in a peaceful, but cash way, followed all the rules of the game around it, for example. in our Svalbard administration for many, many years. We have to master this. In this area, we are also going beyond the defence framework. We're going into the entire civil presence, we're going into how important it is that we, for example. maintain research skills that we develop, that we maintain meteorological stations that we build, that we build weather radars, for example, in Finnmark – that we have a presence at all to show that the Norwegian State exercises its legitimacy with different instruments. This is my one perspective. My second perspective is the obvious commitments Norway has through the UN, through NATO and also through the agreements we have with the European Union, and that we are doing what we need to do to take our share of the burden of civilisation-building, peace-making operations outside the world, but with realism in relation to the defence budget. On that point, the Left agrees with the Government in its principal position that we are prepared to do something in the United Nations. But I have to make two assumptions: then the United Nations has to get a command system to deal with. You cannot have a command apparatus that any normal officer dares not behave if he/she is to take responsibility for his/her forces. There must be an apparatus that is such on the UN side that it is a command structure that works and that it has a intelligence structure that works. I'm assuming the government means it. But I have a wonder: the government has signaled that we are going to do something in Africa. At the same time, we know that the African Union has signaled that white soldiers are not the best fit to do a job in Africa. It has to be that if we're going to do something on the African continent, we're going to do it in respect of the locals. And we're not going to do it based on the respect that existed a hundred years ago, in colonial times. We're going to do it out of respect that we're dealing with independent states, and that we're dealing with institutions that want to build legitimacy. The signals, for example: In Darfur, it's clear. This is not an argument against getting involved, it's an argument for us to reflect on what we're doing and how we're doing it. And then out there, then. When we are in Afghanistan, as the Government has said we should be, and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made clear that it is right that we should be, for example. where he refers to the reciprocal agreement between ISAF and Enduring Freedom, it becomes a cross of thought for me that one of the governmental parties, namely SV, seems problematic that Norwegian soldiers on the ground in Afghanistan, on the ground of international law, should receive, in a given situation, assistance from American soldiers on the ground in Afghanistan, including those on the ground of international law. Then suddenly there will be a problem if Norwegian fighter planes are to protect this effort on the ground of international law, suddenly have to have a sort of graduated relationship with the lives of allied American soldiers. This is a strange phenomenon. Should American soldiers acting in international law have a different protection under international agreements than Norwegian soldiers? This can't hold water. Or is it that allies are going to have the experience of Norway that when you're allied with Norway, you have a reduced, graduated value, because someone really doesn't like your name? It must be essential that it is a mandate of international law. It must be essential to be there in consultation with the national authorities, to build civilisation and to try to build a civil society. I want to mark it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs tried to partially answer this, but I think it is still there. When SV's party leader got a picture on the top of an armored vehicle in Kabul, I assume it was a signal that SV believed the party was for Norwegian soldiers to have the party's support in the field. You'll hardly be able to picture yourself on the tower hatch of an armored vehicle without you being serious about it. You probably don't do it like some kind of guided tour or some kind of sightseeing. And if you allow yourself to be depicted that way, there's something positive about it -- you want to give a handshake to those out there. Yes, but then the handshake has to be committed. It cannot be that there is one handshake in the VG and another handshake in the staging room. I want to talk this way, because we can't act like that, it doesn't create respect for ourselves – and I repeat – in UN missions and on the grounds of international law. The last thing I'm concerned about is the role that the Defense constructively plays and will play, and still need to develop, in all forms where they assist the Norwegian police, until the situations in which they have to take over concrete situations in different forms of possible terrorist scenarios. I would like to stress that it is very important that we have a defence capacity on land that is so good that it can cover, for example. fully relevant object protection tasks for the approx. The 2,000 cell towers we have. I'm not going to name concrete places in Norway that present object protection challenges. I just want to be careful to say that I've been involved in parts of our energy and supply sector, and it represents at least some operational challenges. I'm assuming, on behalf of the Left, that we're doing so that we have people who know how to operate this, and that it's being handled properly. Then to the budget submitted. I support the government in which I sat, and what has been taken up by the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee, in that the dry dock in Bergen becomes meaningless with the knowledge we now have that there is an imbalance between what defence is going to do and the money that is available. Then they can't start pushing into a budget anything new that you hardly know how to finance, while having an open discussion about what else we had to do about changing the structure of the defence. The left therefore supports that proposal. We are also pleased that an overall committee supports the natural re-prioritisation of the situation we have had this autumn, where the government strengthens the operational presence in the north, for maritime defence, for air defence and for coastguard. But the Left also agrees with the Right that it is right not to weaken the operational capabilities of the Air Force. There are capacities that are important, whether we think in an international context, or, ultimately, we should think of an object protection task, for example. for our oil-based installations. It is important that we do not reduce that capacity, and the proposal that has been taken up by the Right as an alternative to the framework will support the Left. In this article, I have chosen to raise some suggestions, but the most amazing thing for me is how to push in a dry dock in an instant when you hardly know how to find a balance between the money you have, and the tasks the defense has to solve. Then you have to be realistic enough not to start with such a project. The second, which is almost as amazing, is the party SV's classified relationship with soldiers acting on the grounds of international law in Afghanistan. There's something that amazes me in such a way that I want to, in formed Norwegian, from Stortinget's pulpit to mark it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e628	I want to focus on an international effort that was not mentioned by the representative Dørum in his posts now. In the current period of the left hand collate program, it reads: «Many countries, especially in Africa, are characterised by civil war, political violence and a weak state apparatus. War and violent conflicts are a huge obstacle to development. The Left will increase its contribution to the UN's efforts to prevent violent conflicts from breaking out and to the reconstruction of social structures following conflicts.’.» Does this mean that the Left is in favour of the Government's proposal to step up Norwegian participation in UN operations in Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e638	It's nice to hear from Left's program in the storeroom! Yes, of course we're positive to use the UN: that's what I said in my post. We're also positive to be used where we want to. My whole point was to raise that question that we must be wanted. It must be common whether it is the programme of the Left or something else. It's not enough to express a purpose. You can express the purpose as an offer, but you have to be wanted. It has to be that where you go in, you have to be wanted. I took that reasoning a step further – not to weaken the legitimacy of the United Nations, for which I am strong, but to act in such a context that we are wanted. No one is in doubt about when we are reminded, for example. in these days the Hammarskjöld films from the Congo, that it has been a part of the white military institutions' way of acting in Africa that does not create the best reputation. It is clear that on the difficult continent there are certain situations where we are definitely wanted, but there are situations where we are not. We should listen to the African Union, and it is actually in the Left's programme that we should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e645	It's always interesting to listen to Dørum, and it was a walk around the world – from Africa back to Norway – with object protection. Of course, I am glad that Dørum says a little about the dry dock in Bergen, and that we do not agree to spend money there. That's good. But back to object protection: I could imagine that the representative Dørum could elaborate a little. We have many objects to secure in Norway. As there has been a decrease in Home Protection – I mentioned it in a previous line as well – from 83 000 to 50 000, we have said at the same time that we should specialise in them, and we should give them more equipment etc. It could have been very interesting to hear a little bit more about object protection, and how the party left might think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e654	Let me say it so that in my task, which ended on October 17, I traveled a little quietly without the presence of the media. Then you get some insight into this country, especially if you travel a lot. We know, as the Willoch Committee has pointed out, that we have a vulnerable infrastructure in many ways. We have telecommunications infrastructure, we have water supply infrastructure, and we have energy supply infrastructure from water-based energy to the oil industry. In this area, spread over the whole country, we have a lot of tasks. Those problems require at least some surface coverage, and they require some kind of local knowledge based on the motto: I know what my name is, I know where I live, and I know that at least you don't live here. Combining it with well-trained people who are well-equipped is an exciting and important debate. It is quite clear that the Home Office here could have a crucial assistance task and also in given situations have a very central task in order to ensure national tasks. I raised this because I think it's an important debate, and I'm glad the representative gave me the opportunity to continue it. We should continue it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e661	The so-called fight against terrorism has given us many legal challenges, both in relation to civil-liberal ideas and civil law, and also in relation to international law, which, of course, will try to regulate the relationship between states. We have the Patriot Act in the United States, which is very much discussed over there in relation to liberal values. A person talks about registering who borrows, and what books he might borrow, in libraries, etc. We see that we are clearly in the process of challenging privacy and liberal, good values. Now, if we go to international law, there's no doubt that he can at least be analyzed as having been under pressure. We know that he is dynamic and, of course, situational. But is it that the Left is satisfied with the way international law and the Security Council have been treated in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e668	The representative swung wide, but started with the fight against terror. Let me state that it will be based on the fundamental principles of the rule of law and international law. I think the representative through his party's government participation will get to meet the dilemmas fully and perhaps become a little bit more humiliated than the SV was in opposition, and more imaginative. That's good. So to international law, which was at the heart of his questions. My starting point was the international legal basis that actually exists for a country to defend itself, and the international legal basis that exists for both ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF in Afghanistan. In fact, Norway has also contributed through our well of strength, which is civilisation-building, and which the Minister of Foreign Affairs brought up earlier here in the United Kingdom, where we can ensure that courts, judiciary and police are built that are uncorrupted and real. It's part of building civilization. But my challenge to the party SV was that once you have a constitutional basis, they cannot have a graduated relationship between American and Norwegian soldiers on the ground who act with a mandate of international law. The representative didn't answer that, and I understand very well why he didn't, because it's an insoluble dilemma, seen from SV's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e678	The position of the Defence Committee is mainly based on a broad and solid majority of the parties in the Stortinget. It has also been expressed through the contributions which have been made here, both by the chairperson of the Committee, by members of the Defence Committee and also by other politicians. I'll try to comment on some of the themes that have been addressed. This, despite all the broad consensus, creates security and ensures predictability at a time when the Defence implements a comprehensive and demanding transformation. The debate today has also shown that there is broad agreement on the main lines of defence policy. The government, as one has also been involved here, is proposing to continue the budgetary level recommended by the Bondevik II Government. It is still a strong commitment to defence. However, we're re-prioritizing 140 million. kr to strengthen operational activity in the north and operational activities of the Home Office – I will come back to it a little – and that we will strengthen efforts in UN operations in Africa and the NATO Afghanistan operation, ISAF. With this, additional resources are shifted from support activities to priority operational operations. In addition, this government is proposing to increase the funding for Defence Music by 4 million. kr, and the Voluntary Sniper Service with 1 million. kr. The committee leader was the first to pick up and problematize something about the involvement in Afghanistan. Let me first say something about what's the main bet, even if it's known. Afghanistan and ISAF will continue to be the main field of Norwegian participation in military operations abroad. ISAF is facing major challenges in expanding its area of operation south-eastward and eastward, and we want to concentrate our efforts in Afghanistan on ISAF. Therefore, it is not required to continue the Norwegian exposure to the OEF at the end of the mission period for the current contribution during January. But I want to say that this is not because questions are asked by the Government on the basis of international law for the operation. Making changes in their foreign exposure is not uncommon. I also think it is right to commend the Norwegian staff who have participated and participate in the OEF in an excellent way. And as I said, we're not asking questions about the international legal basis for the operation. As regards the aggregation of ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF, it is not currently applicable. Neither does NATO want it now. This will in any case be a hypothetical discussion, for a mandate for the pooling of ISAF and OEF, what would it look like, and what would be the mandate? It'll be impossible to have any relationship with and comment now. When NATO doesn't want this either, it hasn't been discussed in the government. Defence is primarily an instrument to safeguard Norwegian security policy interests. This is done at home — through operational military presence, exercise of authority, sovereignty and crisis management, especially in the north — and outside, through participation in international peace operations, primarily under the auspices of the UN and NATO. In order to strengthen the defence’s ability to fulfil its tasks and thereby contribute to the interests referred to, the Government will continue the modernisation of the Defence initiated by the Stoltenberg I Government at the time of the submission of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. The long-term conversion of defence will continue, while the overall priorities of the Soria Moria Declaration – including the objective of a high level of defence presence in North Norway – will be respected. Here I would like to refer to Mr Width's posts, because he was concerned about how to afford to sail new frigates, as an example. This will require us to continue modernisation and conversion. The committee leader, Petersen, was at the forefront of the defense challenge. To that, I would like to say that, in Defense Study 07, the Chief of Defense has of course free hands to make his military professional recommendation, but the Government will decide on this in the light of what is coming, and prepare its new long-term defence plan, and then present it to the Stortinget. New and more complex threats increase the need for flexible defence, which, overall, can address a wide range of tasks, at short notice and in all relevant areas. The objectives of the conversion, as determined by Stortinget in the treatment of the adjustment to St.prp. No 42 for 2003–04 is therefore firmly established and their implementation is a top priority in the years to come. The government will create a modern defence, adapted to new security challenges. Personnel are the defence's most important resource. The emphasis will therefore be on ensuring that the defence has a skills, degree, age and gender structure that is optimal in relation to the needs of the organisation. The government will give particular priority to the recruitment of women, both on the basic level of the organisation and not least in management positions. The implementation of the protection obligation shall be adapted to the needs of the defence. There are many – I believe everyone – who have been involved in the debate in the North Region and its importance. The government sees the northern areas as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. The government will, as part of the operation of the Northern Territories, strengthen the presence of the Defence Force and the ability to uphold sovereignty in the North. This effort is already reflected in this draft budget through a significant increase in operations in the north within both maritime, air and land forces. The committee leader claimed that the government is overselling the Northern Territory bet. Then I want to say that tens of millions on margins actually give a good count. I would like, among other things: show that the effort now made by the Government in the northern regions creates 300 more days for the Coast Guard, and we have to say that is positive. The representative Jacobsen and the representative Sahl were concerned with the defence presence in North Norway, and the government is also concerned about, both in terms of presence in bases, and in terms of maximising exercises at sea and land to North Norway. We're concerned that the defense is going to be heavy in North Norway. This does not mean, however, that you can always say that you have the same structure as you have today. Here we will have to look to the Vice-President's recommendation and the new long-term plan to be made. But what I want to say is that we want to work actively with local politicians, with rapporteurs, with organisations and with the local environment for changes and transitions if they are necessary. The Government will focus on the prevention of conflicts and will work actively to strengthen the international legal order. Participation in international operations shall be enshrined in the UN Charter and shall have a clear UN mandate. It shall be a high threshold for the use of military power. It is in Norway's interest to have a United Nations-led world order. The government will therefore work for a strongly strengthened UN, including active support for the organisation’s reform process. In this context, we will cooperate with neighbouring countries in their efforts to modernise and strengthen the UN, including the UN's apparatus to conduct peace operations. At the same time, Norway will increase its participation in UN operations, with particular emphasis on Africa. Now I see that the clock is running, and I can't say anything about NATO. I have to come back to Stortinget with information about it. Finally, I would like to refer to the investment project in new and extended dry dock at Haakonsvern, which has actually also raised some debate. As stated in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1, quality assurance of cost estimates and implementation plan shall be carried out prior to the implementation of the project. A thorough uncertainty analysis as notified in Additional Proposition No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[President clubs]] I am not told anything about the reason, and I get back to Stortinget with information about the matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e721	The last remark from the Council of State was alarming, I must say. It just underlines what some of us have suspected, that these are not the last words that have been said in this case, and that here we will see cost increases that will probably exceed the 25 pst. as the state councils here come along. At least that's my fortune. The fact that there's an investigation going on, and that it's a preliminary result, indicates that there's going to be more here. The Council of State was in charge in the northern regions, and now both the head of defence and the general inspector of the Army, in the first row, warn that due to lack of money, they must reduce activity in the northern regions. How does this correspond to what the Council of State made in its statement? So another thing. Industrial repurchase agreements linked to the acquisition of defence by foreign suppliers have a major impact on the defence industry and related industry in Norway. What has the Council of State intended to do as the Bondevik II government did not in relation to speeding up the repurchase agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e730	The representative Width dealt with three different themes. The first was about the dry dock. This gives me the opportunity to say that we have not received a final report on the quality assurance. I just got acquainted with this verbally yesterday. However, the reason for the increase is, among other things, greater uncertainty related to the mountain works. In parallel with this quality assurance, other options will be considered to build the dry dock on the Håkonsvern, outside the mountain system. The government will decide on the matter once the quality assurance has been completed and the final report is available. I will return to Stortinget with information about the matter in an appropriate way. On the issue of reducing activity in the northern regions, I would say that the government is concerned with heavy presence in the northern regions. I also mentioned that in my post, in connection with exercises. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e738	When the Council of State says that the Government will come back to the project and deal with it, does that mean that the Council of State will keep the possibility that it will not be any of the dock – so if it becomes more expensive than the government has believed so far? That's my one question. The second is about the operation «Enduring Freedom», which I am sorry to have to bring in again, but these are things you have to withdraw from the Government. Fuzzyness was created by SV last weekend. In St. prp. No 1 is as follows: ‘The extension of ISAF underlines the need for broader cooperation between ISAF and the OEF, including uniform command arrangements and mutual support.’ The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is There was no comment in the supplementary proposal. When I ask you that, it's because SV is fundamentally skeptical of the entire OEF and its mission. The working party has said that they are not in due to capacity reasons. SV has other reasons. Can the Council of State park SV's negative attitude to the very basis for the OEF being an active operation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e750	In the case of the first question, concerning the dry dock, there is a tendering period and a maintenance period until 31 December of this year. I think it was right to come to Stortinget with the information given to me, orally, although the report has not yet been submitted. That means that the government has to deal with this matter, and I will of course come back to Stortinget with information. Since the budgetary discussion is today, it was necessary to do so. When it comes to the second question, I don't know if I fully understood it. But the government doesn't ask questions about the international legal basis for the OEF operation, if that's the question. I'm sorry if I didn't see it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e757	I would like to thank you for your feedback when it comes to the northern regions, which sound positive at first. But at the same time we realize that there will be changes, and we will have to decide when it comes. I asked a question to the SV defence spokesman when it came to their warned anti-Semitic markings and boycotts of Israeli food and weapons, which are to start in the New Year. The answer I received – from a defence spokesperson from one of the government parties – was rather surprising. I expect the Stoltenberg government to continue the Norwegian peace exposure with good contact to both parties in the Middle East. My question to the Minister of Defence is whether she supports such views, or whether the new Stoltenberg government will continue what has been Norwegian policy in this area, in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e764	As far as the Middle East policy is concerned, the Government of Stoltenberg is, of course, committed to contributing to peace in the area. I can't say anything more about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e769	My question to the Minister of Defence is on the dry dock. I am sorry that there may be a lot of dry dock today, but that is an important matter. We're now told, even though it's not surprising for any of us, that it might be 25 pst. More expensive, and I'm not surprised if it might be even more expensive, I. That view has the whole Progress Party that building a dry dock there is not the proper use of the Defence money. We have a lot of free capacity on the private market. We have a military professional selection that says it's not necessary. Then we can ask the question that some, maybe malicious tongues, do, that maybe this is just to soften LO. I haven't said that, but I've read and heard that. My question is this: How far can the government go to build this dry dock – to 314 million. kr plus 25 pst? Or can you go even higher to build it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e778	The quality assurance currently in progress for the dry dock project was started when the government decided to build a dry dock. The government has based itself on the numbers that came in St.prp. No 1 from the Bondevik Government. The preliminary figures show that it can be up to 25 pst. more expensive, as I have mentioned. We haven't got the report. We want to work on cost reduction measures. That's what I can say about that matter. In general, when it comes to whether to build a dry dock or not, I want to show that there were several parties in Stortinget that were for the dry dock in the past. It was part of a defence policy decision on which several parties were in common. I would also like to stress that the frigates of $20 billion in themselves will require more than 50 pst. of the capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e785	When the Council of State did not get hold of my question in the first place, it is entirely my fault. In one minute I'm going to put too much into the line, and then it becomes unclear, I admit it. I would like to get back to the dry dock, because my question was really: if you get a cost increase of 25 pst., does that mean that the government keeps the possibility open that it won't be any of that dry dock? Or is it that the government here operates on principle at what it will cost, and whatever it costs, should put this into the budget? It must be possible to have an opinion even at this stage. As for my question about ‘Enduring Freedom’, it is only a matter of whether the Council of State accepts what is on page 17 of the second column of St.prp. No 1, i.e. to welcome ‘a general closer cooperation between ISAF and the OEF’. Since there was no reservation about it in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1, I hope that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e794	I would like to refer to the agreement between the OEF and ISAF in Afghanistan, where it is about giving each other mutual support in crisis situations – I have previously been involved in air support in such a context. These two operate in the same area and mutual cooperation is regulated in a 2003 agreement. What I would also like to say is that if such support is to be provided by ISAF, it will be done in accordance with the mandate of ISAF.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e799	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e802	The defense is in crisis. Whether it's big or small, there's probably shared opinions about, but that the crisis is there, I think so to say everyone agrees. For the Progress Party, the defence is in a major and difficult crisis. Over many years, the defense has been getting too little money compared to what Stortinget has had as an ambition that the defense could produce, that is. that the other parties have always budgeted too little money. Norwegian defence has also, with the permission of politicians, purchased equipment where maintenance and operating costs have not been included. It is claimed that investment costs are only 1/3, while operating and maintenance costs etc. could be 2/3. Then the defense gets a problem, and you get conditions like we've had and seen in the last few years, where the planes are parked in the hangars – as long as the department can afford to pay rent. The same thing we have seen with our boats – they are added to the berth, and exercises are cancelled, etc., i.e. a strong reduction in military activity. This reminds us of the conditions that former Eastern Europe had, and we laughed and laughed at it. Now it's like this. In North Norway, as we have all said, we are giving priority to taking care of our interests, we are parking our purchased Leopards and replacing them with Mercedes jeeper. We're doing the same thing to the MLRS system, a system that cost approx. $1.5 billion for a few years ago. This will not be the defence stranglehold of the population. Had only the list stopped here, but unfortunately the list can be added to the project. What is left – when marine bases may have to be dismantled, and military camps, among other things. North Norway is being considered merged? The fact that the defence is in a reorganization is correct and important. The defence was too large, too expensive and not least ineffective military terms. The question is, how little is it going to be, and what kind of defense are we going to have? One place the frontier has to go, if we're not just going to have a corporate defense. The debate on this will probably come in a moment. That, in today's situation, it is important that, among other things: An army base in the south and one in the north, is right. The importance of the army must not be underestimated. It is not enough for a relatively large level of protection at home. Furthermore, I will take care of foreign operations. Since 1947, Norway has participated with military personnel in more than 30 military operations abroad, and some 60,000 Norwegians have served in these operations. At the beginning of 2005, about 500 Norwegian women and men participated in operations outside Norway, among others. in Afghanistan, the Middle East, Ethiopia/Eritrea, Sudan, Iraq and the Balkans. All three sectors of defence have intervention teams consisting of operational capacities that are fully trained and trained, which are of very high quality and can be deployed in a conflict area at short notice. Within the framework of international law, the defence shall be able to contribute with military capacity in order to create control over different situations that either threaten common security and vital interests or have other unacceptable consequences. Such crisis management could address all kinds of security policy challenges, could in principle take place worldwide, be led by well-established organisations such as the UN, NATO and the EU, or implemented as part of time-limited coalitions. It is important that we take care of these women and men even when they come back after finishing duty. For approx. 5 pst. They have been affected by mental, physical and social problems and, unfortunately, some have even committed suicide. It's been 50 years since Norway sent its first soldiers to the Gaza Strip. In this way, Norway has long traditions. The United Nations Federation of veterans is doing a fantastic job and should be appreciated more than that. The United Nations veterans want a vet's license, such as... The United States and the United Kingdom have. I think Norway should also consider that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e828	The defence is in the process of extensive conversion, affecting many communities and many individuals. In such a situation, it is important that the plans adopted by the Stortinget be followed. I am therefore pleased that today's government already says in its accession document that a wide-ranging selection should be set up to prepare the basis for a new long-term defence plan for 2009. I see it as very important that this work should start as soon as possible, so that it will be time to look at all aspects of development, and that both organisations, communities and others will be involved in the work and get the necessary time for change. Today, there are many individual games that create uncertainty and that do not help to make the process of conversion and recruitment to Defence easier. This is well noticed in the northern part of the country. I note that in today's debate it is often pointed out that widespread centralisation in defence is the only right thing. I'm not going to argue that in many cases this is right, but I'm going to warn you that it's blindly trusted in such a theory. I remember that centralisation also costs in the form of new investments. When new, good installations are rationalised away, new installations often need to be built elsewhere. This costs too. Therefore, I believe that the mentioned sample needs to get started as soon as possible, and that it will be looked at all aspects of the conversion process for the years to come. I am pleased that the northern regions have been given a broad place in the government statement, and that it is so clear that the presence of the defence and our sovereignty in the north will be strengthened, as the Council of State also strongly pointed out in its statement here today. Our current government looks at the north as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. These are strong formulations that I feel secure being followed up by a total expansion, something else would be unmistakable at a time when the northern regions are described as an energy policy force center. In such a situation, it becomes even more important that we set up our plans so that the presence of the defence in the north is actually strengthened, and that stable plans are put in place for the future. There is no secret that in North Norway there is a perception that the opposite is about to occur, and that there is now a reduction in the defence presence in the north that was not intentional when the Stortinget adopted the current long-term plan. Many believe that this development can provide an unintended and poor structure for defence in the future. This is a signal that the Government needs to take seriously, and a thorough review should be carried out as soon as possible to determine whether there is a cause for concern. I am pleased that the Government has already given the defence budget a better profile for the northern regions through, among other things. strengthening the budget of the Coast Guard and the surveillance of aircraft. I am sure that the Government will make proposals over the next year that will further strengthen the already extensive focus on the north. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the new Minister of Defense for having so quickly started travelling around the country to look at facilities and to meet those who now feel uncertain about the future. This has people around the country noticed with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e857	October 17 is the day of two shifts: one is, of course, the government change. The second shift, which was more unexpected, may have entered the Workers' Party's rhetoric around the Defence. The image of the media in Troms is no longer imprinted with sloppy worker party opinions about how the defense should be. This, in my opinion, puts the resignation of the head of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, in a very populist light. There are not a few times she has moved into the media in my home state of Troms, just to make sure that the Workers' Party is the guarantor of maintaining it. But I hear that the pipe has got a different song. I assume that the rhetorical shift of the line is closely linked to the change of government and the fact that the Workers' Party is now sitting with the Minister of Defence itself. The government has a majority behind it in the Storting, and you can no longer shoot at others. In the right we have been waiting for this reality orientation to come. The moment of truth is here. It is not possible to expect more and more of the Defense unless one at the same time shows the willingness to give the Defence a budget in accordance with the expectations and willingness to make the necessary adjustments in the Defence Organisation. As a representative of the Troms defence state, I am genuinely concerned on behalf of the Defence Force for two reasons: firstly, because the Red-Green government has an SV in its midst that has a long tradition of pruning up the defence budget. The party has made it a habit to balance its alternative budgets with billions of dollars of defense. It doesn't promise well! Secondly, the government has made this fall a bad fall for LO. The decision to build a dry dock in Bergen means that LO interests are placed before defence interests. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen's statements to the Dagbladet on the matter are clear. It's bad news for the Defense that the government's loyalty to the LO is in front of defence. In a defence budget that is already under pressure, the government is proposing the construction of a dry dock in Bergen for 300 million. – or what the price tag is finally going to be. For a defense that is already underbalanced, it must be very frustrating to get such a decision pushed down the organisation – or said in the defense language, the dry dock must increasingly be said to be a real bomb in the cargo. Without fresh money, the dock bill has to be covered by cuts in other parts of the Defense. Another significant paradox in the Bergen election is that this is happening at the same time as the government announces increased investment in the northern areas. It is impossible to see the logic here: greater fleet presence in the north and the location of dock infrastructure to the same fleet in Bergen. It can hardly be done more effectively if we take into account sailing time and the additional costs involved. The new government has also created expectations in the field of defence that it cannot meet. It was perhaps these expectations State Secretary Espen Barth Eide would try to dampen when he said a few weeks ago to the Troms Folkeblad, later in the Evening Post: “We will not be able to maintain everything we have today.” Even more clearly, the head of defense has been this week. The bills in the defense do not go up! I allowed myself to ask a written question to the Minister of Defense to know what it is that Barth Eide is aiming for that we cannot maintain. I must admit that the answer from the Minister of Defence, in very general terms about changing the threat picture and the need for flexibility, was not to be particularly wise. We already know this. The lack of predictability is a heavy burden for both the defence and the local communities that have defence activities in their midst. It is therefore of great importance that there be an honest debate in which the fact that, unless the defence is given much more resources, there is no way but major changes. Given that the existing defence agreement was concluded between the Bondevik II Government and the Workers' Party, there is no indication that the defence will have larger budgets with the red-green government. Rather, on the contrary, if we look at SV's previous arrangements. I note that there is broad agreement on the strategic importance of the northern regions. The need for Norwegian presence should be further underlined after last week’s fishing seasons in the Barents Sea. The ongoing modernisation of the Marine with new frigates, MTB fleets and the renewal of the Coast Guard is correct and important in order for us to be able to faithfully care for Norwegian interests in the north. What the Government means by its Northern Territory effort, future budgets will have to show. It is also about ensuring a defence structure where the presence at sea also has a anchorage to land. This is why there is a great deal of tension about what the trade union and later government will propose at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e886	I am pleased that a Joint Defence Committee shows that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian security policy. The main pillars of this policy are the UN and NATO. It is in Norway’s interest to work actively and constructively through these two organisations. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face today and in the future. The defence must be able to adapt easily to the threat images that may arise at any time. We must have a defence that has its core tasks on Norwegian soil, but it must be trained and equipped to enable Norway to participate in international operations elsewhere in the world. These operations must be anchored in valid NATO or UN decisions. With the budgets presented by both the Bondevik II and Stoltenberg II Governments, the defence cannot carry out the tasks entrusted to the Stortinget by means of its decisions. This is a very serious situation for the defence, and in the long term this will have serious consequences for several sectors of defence. Today, defence facilities scattered around the country, which in many places are corner stone holdings, will be significantly reduced in the future. Maritime defence has a central role in Norway’s defence. It is the branch of defence that is best placed in terms of new acquisitions. During the autumn of 2006, the first frigate of the Nansen class is delivered. The remaining four will come successively. However, what concerns the Progress Party is that there are no means to operate these frigates. Once all have been delivered, the annual operating costs will be 600 million. kr. If this large amount is to be taken from other operating resources available to the Maritime Defense Agency, other activities that are currently the responsibility of the Maritime Defence Agency will be affected. The Progress Party disagrees with the Government on the need to build a new dry dock in Bergen, estimated at 314 million. kr, and as we hear now can be 25 pst. more expensive. This dock shall be built to maintain the new frigates. With the large spare capacity currently available at the Norwegian shipyard, the maintenance of the frigates should be possible here in the country without a new dry dock being built. A major effort on a new dry dock will mean displacement and perhaps postponement of many other necessary purchases to the Defense. The main tasks of the marine defence in the future are sovereignty and the exercise of authority in all areas under the legal jurisdiction of Norway. I'm thinking especially of the whole northern area. The area is very large and it is strategically very important for Norway. Here are the richest fish fields, and probably the northern areas contain very large oil and gas deposits that have not yet been found. Together with the Coast Guard, Norwegian maritime vessels must be increasingly visible in the area. Recent episodes of both Russian and Spanish jets in the Norwegian zone of Svalbard show that the need for the presence of the Coast Guard and the Navy is very important. The Progress Party believes that the tasks of the Coast Guard and the Marine throughout the North region are so important that this budget should have been considerably increased. Homeland protection is today our real land defence. That means that it is Home Security that has taken over the role of Invasion Defense, to the extent that you can talk about that we have an Invasion Defense. Home security has still been given new tasks and responsibilities. Unfortunately, this is not accompanied by the introduction of funds reflecting these changes. Home security, like the rest of the Defense, is still facing major challenges in terms of operations and investment. In order to save money, it appears that Home Affairs needs to limit the training and training of personnel. This is a very regrettable development, as Home Protection is a major resource for the rest of the Defence, especially in the context of foreign missions – home security personnel have good experience and knowledge requested in a number of foreign missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e907	There will be a lot of talk about dry dock in this debate. We are comforted that at least there is not much dry talk. It is with great pleasure that I note that today we are considering proposals for a decision to start the construction of a new and extended dry dock at Haakonsvern in 2006. This is a follow-up to previous decisions in Stortinget. Already in the defence agreement in 2002, the majority went in to build an extended dry dock at Haakonsvern. The right, Christian People's Party and the left were on this. Had the previous government followed up this decision, this dock had been finished next year. In St. prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 on the further modernisation of the defence sector, public-private solutions are envisaged for the construction and operation of the dry dock. The majority of the sizes then determined in the setting that: «A dock must be established on Haacon protection, primarily under public control, subsidiary to OPS on Haacon protection». I repeat: ‘A dock must be established on Haakonsvernung, primarily under public authority.’ [[...]] Since then, we have seen a continuous training of building decisions, a training culminating in the last government proposing that the dock should not be built. In this case, the former government parties spoke with two tongues. In the United Kingdom, the defence agreement of 2002 has been followed up verbally, in the government the agreement on this point has been trained and finally proposed to be broken. The political process during this period has not been suitable to strengthen my confidence in the ability and willingness of these parties to follow up conciliation. So to the core of the matter. Do we need the dry dock? No, the representative says – and the committee leader – Jan Petersen here today. The maintenance can be done in another way. And that's right. Technically, it is possible to outsource the maintenance of new frigates to private workshops. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is The working party believes it will be unwise. With docking and maintenance under its own control, the Defence will be able to maintain and develop its competence on these frigates. In the case of a purely private solution, the defence will be awarded capacity at the relevant private workshops. Nor is it the case that private solutions will necessarily benefit Norwegian workshops. I refer you to the Bondevik government's budget proposal, which says that there are shipyards in Norway and the North Sea area that can take maintenance for the defence's major vessels. So by choosing private maintenance solutions, we would be able to experience that the ships were docked and maintained at foreign workshops. In my opinion, such a solution would weaken preparedness, including: by reducing the sailing time for vessels and by weakening the maritime defence and Norwegian private workshops competence environments. I agree with the members of the Defence Committee from the Workers' Party and the SV who ‘considers that a new and extended dry dock on Haakonsværn will ensure that the new frigates of the Defence will have access to dock at all times. These members also believe that the project will contribute to the preservation of an important environment of competence in the field.’» It is the case that the Maritime Defence Agency has always had close cooperation with private operators in the field of maintenance. This will continue to be the case, and the construction of the dry dock on Haakonsvern will also help Norwegian private workshops to maintain and further develop their capabilities and capabilities for the maintenance of military vessels. I would also like to commend the Minister of Defence for the good progress that the project has now received. The Minister of Defence briefing on the coming uncertainty analysis and warning of further handling of the case makes me sure that this project is well managed. The defense is a big and lacky business, and most of us have well come to know that the financial management of the defense has a potential for improvement. In this respect, I am pleased that the Government will review the experience of staffing, privatisation and tenders, as well as what is called horizontal interaction in Defence, and the experience of different and public-private solutions. I'm concerned that we're going to have a credible and effective defense. I am not sure that the reduction, privatisation and deferral of tenders to the extent that the Bondevik government practised this has helped to give us an effective and credible defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e946	I would like to begin by commending the Defence Committee for a good and steady budgetary position by a broad majority on most points. It is basically only the Progress Party that has opted out of this stability. And I guess I also think that Per Ove Width in his post here confirmed that the party is still on the sideline of the defence debate. Signals that the Progress Party should adapt its defence policy to the world of reality and the modern security challenges and threats have proved to be wrong. Then I find reason to point out the tremendously interesting talk that the head of defence recently gave in Oslo Military Society, and that we politicians obviously have to be able to make choices, choices that sometimes can also be difficult. If we go back to Stoltenberg I government St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001 and the subsequent proposals and changes in defence, there is a double imbalance set as a challenge. One is the relationship between the structure and the economic framework – and it is still a topic that we record from the defence manager’s lectures – the other is the imbalance between operation and investment. The aim was to adapt Defence to the new and more uncertain threat images, creating a flexible and mobile defence, with robust and capable forces capable of dealing with all kinds of threats both at home and in international operations. And it was necessary to create a structure that was within the political economic framework that was available. Two settlements also created security for the financial framework, which the current government is following. And then I would like to stress that there is still an imbalance between operation and investment, and I see it as still a challenge that needs to be looked at. In his lecture, the head of defence was involved in the division between operational structure and support functions. But he also said that there is a functional dependency between operational structure and so-called non-operational structure. Of course, we should give priority to the operational structure and the pointed end of the defence, but we must be aware that defence for emergency reasons must have its own support structure of a certain size. This is the Defense. In that context, the dry dock on Haakonsvern also comes in. Because that's how we're going to keep up with the new frigates. And that's not given – we're probably getting a much clearer idea of when we get this case investigated, as the Minister of Defense has said – that the facilities that are currently on the West Coast are good enough to handle the frigates. And what do we risk? Well, they're going to foreign yards. In the long-term plan, there was broad agreement that the UN plays a key role in Norwegian security policy in addition to NATO. It also agreed that Norwegian foreign and security policy is closely linked to well-functioning cooperation arrangements in a global framework. A broad majority – all except the Progress Party – strongly underlined that both legality and legitimacy should prevail for international operations and that the UN mandate should be given. Nevertheless, a unanimous committee said that ‘within the capacity limits of Norway, participation in UN operations should increase’. Finally, I will be referred to – because it has been taken up from this pulpit before today – Innst. S. No 47 for 2004-2005. There a broad majority in this Chamber, including the Workers' Party, clearly said that it is ‘lowly expedient to impose sanctions on one particular country’. And I want to add that any boycott of Israel, of course, is not part of the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e965	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e968	In the chapter of the Soria Moria Declaration on International Policy, the section dealing with the northern regions has been given a very special place. It is almost that we can talk about a paradigm shift – or at least a very clear change of pace – in Norwegian foreign and security policies in the north. That it has been necessary, the most recent event has shown with all clarity. The best thing about the Northern Region policy in the Soria Moria Declaration is that it is based on one of Gro's most famous mantras: everything is related to everything. In order to safeguard its strategic, economic and environmental interests in the north, Norway must – as this government does – launch a cross-sectoral policy, analysing and working along many lines and across the different fields. It may not have been the most common way of running politics. Now we've seen that's what we have to do if we're to succeed. The major policy challenges in the north are linked to several fields. Some of the most important are mentioned today: fisheries management, energy and environment policies, people-to-people cooperation and defence policy. After the great changes in the Defence and Defence Policy turbulence that the previous government created, it is liberating with such a clear defence policy speech as the one we find in the Soria Moria Declaration. It says that the Government will ‘Strengthen Defence’s presence and sovereignty in the north, including the defence’s contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises and the Coast Guard’s capacity for resource control and preparedness’. There is no doubt that the Defence is one of the most important pillars of the new North Region policy. The defense has a lot of tasks. In cooperation with civil protection, the Defence Vessels, Aeroplanes and Coast Guard Ships shall monitor northward movement and activity, contribute to the prevention of accidents and environmental damage and assist in rescue operations and other dramatic events. Strong defence is an important prerequisite for maintaining stability in an area that is becoming more and more the focus of a mainstream policy perspective. The enormous resources in the north are becoming increasingly important for both Europe and the United States. Our own need to assert sovereignty and to exercise good resource control conditions The presence of the defence, as described in the Soria Moria Declaration. That's why many people in recent times have been more worried than what's good. In violation of the government's pronounced policy, there have been signals moving in a different direction from that of the government. When the head of defence in his speech in Oslo Military Society puts himself in such a way that one can see it as if we are facing a massive reduction in the defence in Finnmark, in Inner Troms, in the Harstad area and elsewhere – that there is a picture of a marginalized defence in the north – it is understandable that concern and uncertainty are expressed. This is when we need assurances that the defence policy course – with a strong and operational defence in the north – is firmly established. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence confirmed this today. Everything is related to everything," said Gro. The Northern Region Policy Platform rests on several legs. If the defence pillar is weakened, we are left more vulnerable than we can bear. We need the comprehensive Northern Region policy that the Government of Stoltenberg has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e992	I'm not going to go dry – even if it's later to be a popular sport for mountain people. Before the elections, there were some of us who asked how a government with the foreign policy opposition within the government quarters would govern Norwegian defence and foreign policy. We received an answer – among others. from the current Prime Minister — that it was highly reprehensible to ask such questions, because it could harm Norway’s interests. My particular impression is that the new government has already after six weeks been able to damage essential Norwegian interests by creating uncertainty and uncertainty about entirely central parts of Norwegian foreign and security policy. On questions earlier in the debate, the Minister of Defence replied that she would refer to the agreement between ISAF and the OEF on mutual support under given situations. The same has been done both by the Minister of Defence and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, after that happened, a unanimous central government in SV has ordered its members of the Government to sign this agreement, namely that if the situation should arise, the Norwegian fighter aircraft should be recalled. If the Minister of Defense has nothing more to say about this than what she said, it is quite fundamentally unclear what policy the Government stands for. What the Minister of Defense should have said was that if that situation occurs that one third of the Government believes Norway is going to break an agreement, the reaction should be that it is SV who withdraws its government councils – not that it is the government that violates the agreement by revoking aircraft from Afghanistan. This requires much clearer speech. The second thing that amazed me was that the Council of State, on specific questions about Norway's Middle East policy, replied that the Government was ‘committed by contributing to peace in the region. I can't say anything more about it now." Can't the Minister of Defense say anything more about the matter? Are we going to sit back with a fundamentally open question about whether the Norwegian government is in favour of a boycott of one single country in today's world, Israel, or not? So one of the government parties, with several central government councils in the government, has gone out and declared to the world that they are in favour of such a unilateral Norwegian boycott. Here the Minister of Defence must be able to say something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1010	The representative Nybakk addressed some criticism of the Progress Party and me. I don't know why. When the head of defense and the general inspector of the Army have announced that they must put down garrisons, for example. in Northern Norway because of lack of money, at least it is not the responsibility of the Progress Party, because we have, through all the budgets – as I have pointed out earlier – shown a willingness to increase the budgets. If there's someone who's been involved in creating the double imbalance we have in the defense, it's the jamm Arbeiderpartiet. Through different governments over many, many years, they have contributed to the under-funded defence. So that piece the representative Nybakk has to take back to his own government and tell it that they have to do something here, as the Progress Party has pointed out earlier today. The reason I asked for the floor was that I asked a question instead that the Council of State unfortunately did not answer. I understand that. What I'm a little concerned about is repurchase agreements. We know that these major repurchase agreements are very linked to the Norwegian defence industry. I think, among other things: on the frigates and the fighter planes, where there's a lot of money. The Bondevik II government showed, as I said, little or no interest in repurchase, I will claim. I think that's worrying and quite eye-catching, not least because we know that the value of these agreements is close to NOK 4 billion each year. Then I just want to ask the Council of State – I hope she can answer that: Does the Council agree that repurchase agreements are important? What has the Council of State done as not done by the Bondevik II Government, in order to increase efforts in relation to repurchase agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1021	First, I have to say that I am pleased with the remarkable national government – not central government – in SV has received the later days. The Secretary of State has clearly said from, and has communicated it out to our allies, and then the Minister of Defence has made it clear that it is a bad course in relation to our Afghanistan exposure. We're going to focus on ISAF, and we're going out of «Enduring Freedom». There are probably a lot of reasons for that – I'm not going to take that debate here. But it has emerged here that SV's government has demanded that the plane be called home. Now we're supposed to be flying there for three months. The SV National Board meeting did not say that these planes should be called home. The Swedish National Government has said that the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government must suspend the mandate of ISAF and, above all, ensure that ISAF and ‘Enduring Freedom’ do not melt. This is a debate that is also going centrally, internally, in NATO. Norway shall participate and make its views known in the discussions taking place in NATO. The Stortinget will also be allowed to make their contributions. However, it may seem that some representatives here in the Chamber do not think one should have such debates. One didn't think anything about, for example. to listen to what is going on in the other NATO countries – that is the debate going on there day by day. As I said earlier today: I note that Conservative Angela Merkel follows up the social-democratic Schröder's foreign policy. So this shouldn't be strange for those who had to draw this so far as to say that there's nothing in the government about this. It has been communicated, both from all parties in the government and from the current state councils, that the government is behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1032	First to the answer that Per Ove Width's representative gave to me on my line. He went to work there and said that the Christian People's Party has a low threat picture that does not belong in today's everyday life. I would say that the Christian People's Party has the same threat picture that lies in the proposed proposition – a threat picture that the head of defence also gave a pretty strong expression in his speech a few days ago. Clearly, the Progress Party describes a threat picture far beyond it. That's some reason they're winding up the financial resources to the extent they do. My question was whether it was a realistic threat picture or not. Then it is quite clear that SV has a clear and tough course towards the boycott of Israel. It has also come from the Swedish Defence Policy spokesman, who also represents the Government. There are now several debaters. We have received a clarifying response from the representative Marit Nybakk, whom I am very pleased to receive. But I really hope that we get a clearer answer from the Minister of Defense than what I got on my line. The question is, as the answer might suggest, whether there are debates in the Government that are changing the course of what kind of defence policy and what kind of peace policy we are going to conduct in relation to the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1042	Now we've had a defence debate that's been going on for 3 hours and 15 minutes. There has been a debate that has shown a great deal of agreement in defence policy. So, in one of the last speeches, the representative comes to pay and says that the government creates uncertainty, and that the Minister of Defence is not ready to speak. That's what I've been trying to be, and I can repeat what I've said before, that the government is behind the defense policy. I have had a statement in Stortinget about it. There has been a long debate, and I have tried to repeat some of the things that have been unclear, or that have been asked questions today. As for what some parties in the government have debated, I would say that we tolerate debate, but in the government we agree. In fact, in recent times, the Right has created uncertainty about defence policy. The government's policy is reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration, and it has been explained many times in the United Kingdom, both by me and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As regards the government's relationship with Israel and a boycott, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg yesterday pointed out to the Newspaper yesterday that it is clear that «a weapon boycott of Israel is not the government's policy» and that «boikott is not mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration». It also referred the representative Marit Nybakk to in his statement. With regard to the representative Width's statement on business neutrality and how the government looked at this with repurchase, I would like to say something that I was not told in my post. We will review the procurement procedures for defence equipment, with a view to ensuring a procurement policy that contributes best to repurchase agreements and that best meets the overall Norwegian security policy, foreign policy and trade policy objectives. In this context, the Government will make a thorough assessment of the involvement of the defence in the Joint Strike Fighter and Eurofighter programmes, in particular with a view to clarifying whether the benefits for the Norwegian-based industry of this participation are proportionate to the contributions made by Norway. Such a review will be carried out in close consultation with other stakeholders it is natural to cooperate with. I would also like to say here that there should be a meeting in the New Year with the defence industry, and we have already started this work from political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1055	I agree with the Minister of Defence that there is a lot of consensus in defence policy, and that is seen after three and a quarter hours of debate. The alarming fact is that this debate has left more questions than it has answered, and that should not be necessary on such a basis. I was also amazed that it was not possible to say what the Minister of Defence now says about the Middle East policy, as the question was actually up, but it should be. What I have to say is that we have not come any closer to getting the assessments behind the question of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. The fact that we constantly hear what international law is, and what is in the Soria Moria Declaration, is not much to help. It's amazing that you have to take your views out of the government, but I have to note that it was more successful on Wednesday, when the foreign minister was here, than it has been today. It would also have been natural that we had been told about these possible increased costs of the dock in Bergen, leading to an assessment of whether to go further, or whether to operate according to the principle of ‘cost what it costs’, and go on no matter how much it costs. It's such a fundamental question that I thought the Minister of Defense had some thoughts about it, but I understand she doesn't. Then there's one thing that I have to say, even though I don't like to go into polemics with a representative who wasn't in the house when we dealt with the north-eastern message in ours. I must nevertheless be allowed to say that when Tove Karoline Knutsen claims that the Northern Region policy presented in the Soria Moria Declaration is ‘a paradigm shift’ in the northern regions, it is a comment that does not require a serious assessment, to be honest. It's bad if you walk around and say that to your voters. If there is a representative of the Troms Workers' Party who really believes that, there is a striking lack of insight into what this house has previously thought about the Northern Region policy. It doesn't really matter. And more generous to their predecessors it should be possible to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1069	I owe an apology to the representative Jacobsen. I said central government, and it's supposed to be state government. It raises the matter to an even higher level. However, it is alarming that the representative Jacobsen does not seem to want to understand what is completely elementary, namely that the Swedish National Government has demanded from the Swedish Government government that they go against an agreement that Norway has concluded and on which Norway is obliged. Then it helps little to point out that it is free to discuss in this world and also in this room. Yes, of course it is. But it cannot be free for members of a government to go against the government itself, and especially when there is an agreement between states. Does Bjørn Jacobsen really believe that the seminar principle can also be introduced there? The council says she's tried to be ready. I do not doubt that for a moment, but I find that she has succeeded only to a limited extent. It may not be necessary, in the case of Norwegian Middle East policy, to consult the Newspaper or quotes from other government members in order to answer a simple question as to whether the Norwegian Government is behind or not behind the policy announced in full by one of the government parties. It should be possible to use a tight arm. I note, after the answer given by the Council of State in the form of the quotation from the Prime Minister's statement to the Newspaper, that it is probably not the Government's policy, and that the Government thus believes the opposite of what one of the Government's parties believes. That's a good thing in case you know. But this illustrates a more fundamental problem, which I tried to point out, namely that this government does not have its parliamentary majority in the Government in terms of foreign and security policy. If there had not been a parliamentary majority outside the government parties, I believe that it would have been necessary to use even stronger words than the term 'to harm Norwegian interests'. If the parliamentary basis for Norwegian foreign and security policy had been in the current government, it would have been a permanent occupational accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1080	Bjorn Jacobsen has had the word twice, and now gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1083	We got there in the debate that we have to start quoting. I'll quote from the Swedish National Board of Directors. What one says about F-16 is: ‘The participation of F-16 aircraft in Afghanistan may place the Norwegian contribution in a grey zone between aggressive and defensive operations. Norway should therefore contribute in other ways in the future.’ That's what the Swedish National Government says about F-16, and if Inge Wohnning has a different quote or a record from the Swedish National Government, I'd like to see them. So it looks like some people in this room forget that Israel is an octopus. Or as former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch plar said so well: If the Palestinians are not promised to end the occupation, there will never be peace between the parties. That's the basic thing here. This is why, not from the government members of SV or from SV's big group, but from voluntary organisations and from people in SV's and other places, suggestions have been made about what we should do to improve the Middle East policy. We'll take note of that. What comes out of it of practical politics, we don't know. But the policy of the Government is at present firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1097	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1105	We are ready to go to voting on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e1113	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 2-6, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, from Jan Petersen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2758	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2810	Then the President will first address the roll-out XII as this is to be set up against a minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2820	There is an alternative proposal here, proposal No. 1, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It shall be invested in a new and extended frigate dock at Haakonsvern, cf. decisions of the Court of First Instance. S. No 234 [[2001-2002]] The President assumes that the Central Party will support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left – and it is nodded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2838	We're going to vote over Framework 8 with underlying Roman numerals, I-XI. Mr Petersen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2843	After the vote we just had over the last point in the setting, which has fallen, it has now become natural for us to vote for the rest of the setting, as part of our balancing was at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2848	Per Ove Width will make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2851	As the Progress Party has a completely different framework area to deal with, I would recommend that the Progress Party vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e2856	That should be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-02.ana.ud2387e4505	Case No. 2, Unit, deleted.
