ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e56	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e72	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e88	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 45]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e104	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e113	The current attitude in Odelstinget concerns legislative changes that must be made in order to implement budgetary decisions taken earlier today. The changes in the laws of the People's Security Act open up the possibility of: recipients of fixed-term unemployment benefit shall be entitled to a dependent child allowance in accordance with the same rules as the non-pension allowance to day-care allowance is reinstated as the scheme had been extended before 2003 to those with care for children who are initially in need of continuous supervision and care, but where the rules on the relief of benefits have been established, thus helping to prevent individuals from experiencing a temporary loss of income to living in connection with the transition between different social security schemes. We shall also deal with the provisions of the Law on Social Security and Employment on the length of the period of entitlement to daily benefits under leave and the period of compulsory pay by the employer, without proposing changes to the law by the majority of the committee. Changes of great importance are made to individuals through these legislative changes. The budgetary impact is also significant. The lots separate layers on individual points. The majority support the Government's proposal to reintroduce the holiday supplement into the daily allowance scheme. Since the entitlement to holiday pay is earned the year before it is paid, employees who are left to work will also be left without any income during vacation the first year of work if the legislation in force continues. In the budget, the rules on leave in the Swedish Social Security Act and the Wage and Social Security Act have been amended by adding 34 weeks to the period before the employer’s obligation to pay. Mr Bondevik II proposed 26 weeks. The difference represents a cost of 180 million. kr. In order to maintain today's rules of 42 weeks, we would need a further 180 million. kr. The current legislation provides for 26 weeks as a general rule, but with the possibility of extending to 42 weeks according to its own regulations. The government proposed in Ot.prp. No 22 that the length of the period of entitlement to daily allowance under leave is not specified by law, but that the department is authorised to determine the length of the period by regulation. The Committee considers that this proposal must be assessed in relation to everyone's intentions to provide a predictable framework for business and workers. While we understand the reasons given by the Government for the fact that the existing provisions of the law have resulted in frequent deleveraging of changes, the Committee believes that the objective must be to establish arrangements that can work over time, while providing sufficient flexibility in relation to the labour market situation. Therefore, in agreement with the Ministry, the Committee considers that the provisions governing the reintroduction of the employer's obligation to pay continue to be laid down by law. Therefore, the majority, all except the Advance Party, do not propose amendments to current legislation in this area. The Progress Party proposes to lay down in the law that the period during which the employer’s obligation to pay is to be reinstated is to be fixed at 42 weeks. So this is going to increase the budget by 180 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposals and by 360 million. kr in addition to the proposal from Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e145	Permitting legislation is regular for debate in Stortinget, and in this context we will consider a proposal from the Government to extend the employer’s pay obligation period from five to ten days. This must be seen in the context of the fact that the Government has also proposed that the period of leave should be up to 34 weeks, compared with 26 weeks proposed by the Bondevik II Government in their budget. It is important for the whole of the world of work that there are rules on permitting which are based on the goal of full employment at all times. The need for a permit may arise when work is small for a shorter or longer period of time. The extent of this need is determined both by economic cycle and by industry-specific conditions. In good times with a high demand for labour, there is a point to avoid unbundling the labour force into enterprises with overcapacity. In theory, we will then stimulate the channelling of free labour to companies that need it. And the policy-driven instrument is the rules of permitting. What we can experience as a problem is major industrial differences, and a code that works well in one industry can work poorly in another industry. In the context of the consultation on the budget, we have also received signals that in some sectors there are seasonal variations in production. An example of this is the asphalt industry, where virtually no production is made through parts of the winter semester. It is obvious that a cyclical regulatory framework meets the needs of this industry to a small extent. When the Workers' Party, together with the other government parties, supports the extension of the employer's period from five to ten days, it must be seen in the context of setting the leave period to 34 weeks rather than 26, as proposed by the previous government. It is also important for us to have a process in which the government, together with the social partners, looks at different aspects of the legislation. The aim must be to obtain concrete knowledge of how the legislation works in general and in the various sectors, so that we can design a regulatory framework that may be more effective than the current one in meeting the objective of full employment. The parties representing the current majority of the Grand Duchy were strongly opposed to the cuts and tightening of benefits for the unemployed made under the 2003 budget. That is why the Government will now reintroduce the holiday supplement for the unemployed, so that earnings start on 1 July 2006. The opposition's comments on the proposal show that there is a contradiction between providing decent benefits to the unemployed and stimulating job search. In my opinion, this is pointless. Those of us who have had the dubious pleasure of living out of cash know that the low benefits lead to financial difficulties for most people who are used to living on an employee income. In fact, these difficulties may, in some cases, be a hindrance to active job search. The holiday supplement is a support for the unemployed, which reduces the loss of income due to unemployment and which helps them to take vacations with the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e158	The rapporteur made a point that the proposals put forward here will lead to a cost saving of 180 million. kr if you set the period of leave to 34 weeks and not to 42. That's right. This leads to reduced costs for the state, but it leads to increased costs for the business community. So it's a burden on business. We just had the budget debate, which this is part of. But I'll quote a few notes from the previous period. One is from the Workers' Party's general note in the Budget indent. S. No In for 2004-2005: ‘In the 2004 draft State Budget, the Government proposed to amend the Law on Permitting, so that employers who were on leave would pay wages in the first 30 days before the permit was paid daily, compared with the previous three days. In the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, this period was reduced to 10 days. These members wish to reduce this period to 5 days, so that employers are as motivated as possible to bring on temporary assignments of a certain duration.’ It was passed on to the Workers' Party, and it is approx. A year ago. I would also like to quote from the 2005 revision of the national budget: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party fear that by going back to a period of leave of 26 weeks as proposed by the Government, more redundancies may occur, which in turn lead to the disappearance of important competences from exposed industries. These members consider that the Government disregards the fact that there is also a need for a longer period of leave on the basis of seasonal variations, when it justifies the tightening of the economic situation. These members believe that the proposed tightening will particularly affect that part of the industry that has strong fluctuations in activity and is located in parts of the country where there are few alternative employment opportunities. These members therefore propose that the period of leave of 42 weeks be continued.» This was written for approx. Five months ago. Then my question is, what has happened in the last year, which means that the Workers' Party has completely changed its view of this? I'm aware that every time we ask about these things, the government answers that they've only had three weeks to do something about this, that they've had a very bad time, so they have a change of $8 billion in the budget. It is worth noting that during the three-day budgetary procedure with the government parties one year ago, the Progress Party moved at a much larger amount. It shows that the Progress Party is able to act and do something when it is needed. It is clear that the Workers' Party and the Government need much longer time to do something. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e179	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 46]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e189	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e251	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e261	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e417	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e427	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e435	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party. The President will come back to these proposals during the vote on the individual paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e484	The President would like to make a reference to proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 is amended as follows: the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4-7 is replaced by the following:Day allowances may be provided for up to 42 weeks during a period of 18 months in the case of full or partial leave by the same employer.» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e535	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e624	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e636	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Payroll Act of 6 May 1988 No. 22 is amended as follows: § 3, first paragraph, first and second sentences are replaced by the following:Workers who have been wholly or partially on leave without pay for 42 weeks in the last 18 months are entitled to pay and other pay from the employer for the excess leave period. [[Law on payroll]] [[2]] The Ministry may provide for the possibility of extending the 42-week period before the employer’s obligation to pay is reinstated.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e680	It will first be voted on point 3, as the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against, and then over the rest of the III.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e698	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e708	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08-lower.ana.ud260e719	There is no record available. Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
