ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e27	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen and Gunn Karin Gjul, who have been licensed, have once again taken up their seats. They called for alternates, for Akershu County Mette Korsrud and for South Trondelag County Tora Husan, have taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: – by Mr Jon Lilletun on sick leave from 28 February onwards and until further notice – by the Working Party on sick leave of the representative Karita Bekkemel Orheim from 28 February onwards – by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Trine Skei Grande from 28 February onwards and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Møre and Romsdal County: Ottar KaldholFor Oslo: Ola Elvestuen
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e85	Sigmund Kroslid, Ottar Kaldhol and Ola Elvestuen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e93	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e96	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make proposals to establish an equivalent competitive relationship between the agricultural cooperative and other private actors in the food sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e101	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e114	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, 5 minutes for each independent representative and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e121	The debate on entrepreneurship in society is as simple as it is complicated. Everyone wants good conditions for entrepreneurship, but the instruments may be a little more debated. When someone puts their ideas into life and creates new jobs, this is very positive for all of us. Not only do they create new jobs in their own businesses, but business start-ups generate increased public welfare as well as new jobs in the private sector. For this reason, the right is engaged in providing enterprises and establishing a good general framework. We believe that the level of taxation is a factor in determining how many enterprises are established in Norway and whether they are established in Norway. We also believe that an efficient and supportive public sector is helping to influence the future of entrepreneurs in Norway. I am therefore proud to be able to represent a party that has reduced taxes and has done a lot to modernise the public sector. Entrepreneurship training in school is important to increase the number of new entrants. We also know that most of the companies that in the future will provide people with work and pay taxes are not yet established. Most of the enterprises that existed in Norway when Oslo Børs was established almost 200 years ago are not available today. In the meantime, thousands of businesses have come into existence, and many have disappeared. This is quite normal, and therefore it is important that as many new businesses as possible are established, now and in the future. There are many people who have many good ideas but lack knowledge of how to get started. There are probably also many who are a little anxious about the responsibility of setting up a business. That's why it's important to be able to make the student familiar with what needs to be done in school. It is easy to fear the unknown, and therefore the school should help to ensure that entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activity are not unknown to students. There are many initiatives taken for entrepreneurship in school. Young Entrepreneurship offers a good structure for the schools as well as its own concept, Youth Enterprise. In-flight evaluation suggests that students participating in a student enterprise are more likely to establish their own activities after education. In addition, the NHO has a partnership programme for schools, and many universities and colleges have their own commercialisation and start-up units for their employees and students. This is just one of the things that is already happening in the field of entrepreneurship in the education sector. The government has produced a strategy paper for entrepreneurship in teaching 2004–08. The size of the population agrees with Government strategies and is particularly pleased with the focus on empowerment among teachers. The right considers that increased competence in entrepreneurship among teachers is important for future training. There is broad consensus in the Committee on Entrepreneurship Training at School. A large majority of the Committee opposes the proposal of the Socialist Left to introduce entrepreneurship as a mandatory multidisciplinary subject and method of training. For the Right, it is not desirable to force the training of entrepreneurship into rigid forms, but to have the greatest possible freedom of method and opportunity for local adaptations. Many of the good actions we are doing today have just come about as a result of the school being open to new recordings and methods. In addition, the Right continues to uphold the principle that curricula should contain clear and clear learning objectives and that the freedom of method must also apply in the field of entrepreneurship education. Furthermore, the Committee considers that further funding needs to be ensured for young entrepreneurship during the evaluation period after 2005. The Committee, and the Right, are concerned that good measures in the field of entrepreneurship training should not disappear while the project is being evaluated. I would also like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e140	There is little doubt that integrating entrepreneurship into Norwegian school is a common policy objective. Everyone wants a school that stimulates creative thinking, providing problem-solving training, and that prepares students as best they can to get to work. It is not surprising that a group of committees today believe that the school has a role to play in providing individual students with knowledge of entrepreneurship. It also means that there is still disagreement in the Committee on how best to integrate entrepreneurship in primary and secondary schools. The SV's proposal is commendable; we'll give them that praise. I do not think that new multidisciplinary subjects should be introduced in school on the basis of private proposals in the Stortinget. But it is good that in that case we will have the opportunity to discuss this within the Committee and state that we do not want to change the Teaching Plan. In this setting, the Workers' Party proposes the same as we did in the treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004. There, the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party joined forces to give the subject technology and design a separate identity in the Teaching Plan. We believe that there is limited scope for opening up to many different multidisciplinary topics, as set out in the proposal. However, we also believe that multidisciplinary subjects should be made visible in the curricula, so that they do not disappear completely, but we want more integration into more disciplines. We have been told that training in entrepreneurship can easily be combined with technology and design, so that we get a major multidisciplinary topic that accommodates both. That would have been good! I would like to see the Committee also assessed this possibility. I hope that we can get back to this together at a later stage. In any case, the Labour Party believes that we need increased entrepreneurship. We recognise that multidisciplinary subjects without their own curricula can ‘disappear’, or in a way drown, in a large curriculum. In any case, you have to keep in mind, so that the efforts that the Government has now made will not become too small a commitment. Against this background, there is reason to praise the proposers – I think so. The examination of Document No The 8 proposal in the Committee has put the necessary focus on one particular issue that we have not received in the past, and that is the funding of the Young Entrepreneurship project during the evaluation period. I am very pleased that the Committee has given the Ministry a clear signal that the Young Entrepreneurship project must be continued and financed during the evaluation period, so that we do not get a stay in the project but can continue it in 2006. And then maybe we can come back after the evaluation with an improved proposal on how to do this in the future. I have the definite impression that a joint committee agrees that knowledge of entrepreneurship in the business world is an important topic for strengthening the position of Norwegian school in the years to come. The conclusion is: The working party follows SV one step on the way in Document No. The 8 proposal, and then we support the Government in terms of the other two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e159	There is broad consensus in the Committee, but at the same time this is an important matter – therefore a few words on the way from the Progress Party. The Progress Party must also commend the SV proposers for the intention of the proposal. It is gratifying when both the SV's proposers and the Committee's representatives from the Workers' Party are involved in stressing how useful it is for students to learn what demands are being made in the workplace and in business. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress the hope that such learning will also be useful for the rest of the school work. Learning about entrepreneurship and gaining insight into the work of innovation and the development of both own and new jobs will hopefully also provide an understanding of the need for sustained efforts to achieve results — including learning outcomes from schoolwork. Here it should be possible to make a good transfer profit! An overall committee has underlined the importance for Norway of facilitating innovation and entrepreneurship. The Committee points out that, in order to ensure a high level of well-being in the future, we need to focus on developing an innovative and knowledge-based business. A culture of innovation must therefore be combined with a culture of learning. A culture of learning must raise the awareness of children and young people about the possibilities of transforming ideas into projects and later into their own jobs, or for the further development of their own jobs. The government has launched a strategy for entrepreneurship in education for the period 2004–08. It contains a number of projects and actions. The Progress Party is concerned that the results of both completed and ongoing projects are monitored and evaluated, not least as regards this Young Entrepreneurship. The Progress Party wants feedback to Stortinget on this, and we are pleased that the entire Committee has concluded on the wish for such feedback. On the part of the Progress Party, I would also like to stress that the Youth Entrepreneurship project must continue funding while the evaluation is ongoing and until the conclusion of the evaluation is available from Stortinget. The Party stresses that the competence for entrepreneurship needs to be increased among teacher students through its own multidisciplinary subject in teacher training. The Progress Party further points out that it is the Directorate of Education that will be responsible for following up the Government’s strategy for entrepreneurship in education, and the Progress Party assumes that entrepreneurship teachers’ competences are part of this work. The proposal to introduce entrepreneurship as a mandatory subject and a self-disciplinary approach is not supported by the Progress Party. With the basic learning problems identified in Norwegian schools, there is extra reason to reject this proposal, in the view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes it is a better solution to allow entrepreneurship to be a choice subject adapted to the different stages of initial training. The Progress Party assumes that the monitoring and evaluation requested by the Storting is also reflected in proposals for incorporation and coordination with the new curricula currently under preparation. The government is also given a clear mandate to do this: The ‘majority’ — all except SV — ‘are the Government’s ongoing assessment of how existing school plans contribute to ensuring good entrepreneurship training in the school and take the necessary steps if this is not sufficient’. The Progress Party also believes that most of the intention in the proposal is in fact met with the strategy in place and with the comments made by the entire Committee and the Committee minus SV in the vote. That is why the Progress Party also believes that the proposal can be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e188	Only SV will have increased entrepreneurship in school. Today, Stortinget SV's proposal to make entrepreneurship part of initial training, a proposal that could mean a lot to school students, the companies that are established, are being established, will be established and, not least, the companies that could have been established. The size setting consists of beautiful words and fine formulations. This was the most committed response SV received to the proposal to make entrepreneurship a part of initial training, and to create greater contact between school and local work and business. In its position, the Committee considers that a conscious commitment to entrepreneurship would contribute to the development of an innovative culture in Norway: ‘In the Committee’s view, an innovation culture will promote innovation and innovation, as well as the ability and willingness to take initiatives and risks’.» Entrepreneurship in initial training is, in the Committee's view, an important tool for promoting a comprehensive learning environment and stimulating creative thinking among students around the business environment in society. But where are the tools, and where is the initiative to get this done? Faggots and non-obligatory wordings do not continue Norway. Policy is to want and to implement, to put tools behind the goals you set. Today, SV is promoting four proposals. We are promoting proposals for entrepreneurship as a mandatory multidisciplinary subject and method of initial training, we are proposing our own curriculum for entrepreneurship in initial training, we are promoting proposals for entrepreneurship, continuing training for teachers and the development of new and appropriate teaching materials, and we are promoting proposals for the organisation of Young Entrepreneurship to receive permanent funding from the State budget – four proposals that would have strengthened the entrepreneurship initiative in school. The rest of the Stortinget is negative to all of the SV's proposals, while the rest of the parties do not make their own proposals. Entrepreneurship in initial training is a method that involves a high degree of project work and practical learning and that student participation and student responsibility are given high priority. SV believes that increasing entrepreneurship training in schools can help solve some of the challenges we face. The comprehensive research evaluation of Reform 97 has revealed that the school does not have the ability to provide training for all students, which leads to too many students going through basic training without satisfactory learning outcomes. Much of this is explained by the forms of learning at school. Methods based mainly on theoretical learning require that much of the learner's learning takes place through practical and social approaches to the teaching material. The biggest challenges we have in school today is that we have a school that systematically separates students as losers and winners in the system. We have a school that doesn't have the ability to balance the differences we have in society, but is involved in maintaining and strengthening them. By strengthening the practical forms of learning and by strengthening interaction and division of labour between students, much more students could be involved in the training and help more of them to experience increased learning outcomes. Such an opportunity can be achieved by increasing the commitment to entrepreneurship in school. Good entrepreneurship training requires that school teachers and business mentors and advisers have sufficient skills to guide students, both professionally and methodologically. Increased emphasis on entrepreneurship in school will therefore require continuing training of teachers and the development of new and appropriate learning materials and equipment. Through our proposal, SV managed to secure temporary funding for the organisation Young Entrepreneurship for a while. We are very pleased because this organisation is doing an invaluable job of entrepreneurship in education. But when it comes to being able to give all students an offer of entrepreneurship training, we're equidistant. As long as no one is willing to bet neither professionally nor financially, entrepreneurship training will continue to depend on fires and on the municipality fund, and there are no safe resources. Entrepreneurship in school needs forms of long-term financing. Entrepreneurship in school is today largely funded through project funding. This means that there is a disproportionate amount of time to form project applications, and it is difficult to establish activities and cooperation that extend particularly far beyond time. Entrepreneurship training is a long-term work where new students arrive every year. The four points in the proposal that SV is promoting in the document today constitute overall a good strategy and an increased commitment to entrepreneurship in school, and I am therefore promoting, on behalf of SV, the proposal contained in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e219	The representative Lena Jensen has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e222	Entrepreneurship is important for individuals, for institutions, businesses and society as a whole. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that one must also bet on this as a form of work at school. Children and young people must have faith in their own creative powers and the ability to see and use local resources as a basis for job development. Creativity, progress and cooperation are important elements both at school, at home and in leisure. Entrepreneurship in the education system has a broader definition than pure business start-up. It also includes social and cultural contexts, the development of personal qualities and attitudes, as well as formal knowledge and skills. This is precisely why entrepreneurship was also mentioned in St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, which was released less than a year ago. The Communication, Chapter 11, states ‘From Idea to Value’, the Government’s Plan for a Comprehensive Innovation Policy. The notification indicates that one will facilitate enhanced competence, conscious attitudes and culture for entrepreneurship throughout the education system, including: by setting up several student, youth and student companies. In addition, more cooperation between education and training institutions and the business and employment sectors shall be facilitated. On page 114 of the Communication, one of the Ministry’s proposals is that ‘a strategy for entrepreneurship in education will be put forward’. This was followed up on 10 May with the plan entitled ‘See the possibilities and do something with them!’. As far as I remember, I was the only person in the debate on 17 June 2004 who pointed out precisely this with entrepreneurship. I said the following: ‘The Government’s strategy for entrepreneurship in training shall stimulate the growth of youth enterprises. This links school to the labour market and contributes to varied and practical training.’ In this respect, I was particularly concerned about the renewal of the youth class. The Government’s press release of 10 May 2004 outlined many measures launched in the Strategy Plan, such as: development of skills for teachers in the field of entrepreneurship, cooperation with school-working in the form of hospitation and guidance, support for good work organisations, etc. But entrepreneurship is not mentioned there as a mandatory subject and method of initial training. This would have been quite possible for the SV to record at the time, but then we heard nothing. On the contrary, we were concerned with just the freedom of method as an important principle in the new reform. SV is now going the opposite way and will introduce a mandatory method. It does not want a Christian People's Party. The availability of local freedom in this area challenges creativity, and it turns out to be working, as it flourishes with both pupils and youth businesses today. For example, 140 youth enterprises are registered to ‘Young Voice’, which goes off the stack next week in Stokke, Westfold. It is a county fair for Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold where 700 young entrepreneurs gather and will meet the established business and public administration representatives. Innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship are shown here in practice. In Westfold we have many examples, such as in Greveskogen high school, where students have started the company Matguiden, or in Berg school, which has its own school garden, etc. In recent years, the number of youth enterprises has increased by over 20 pst. every year. Young Entrepreneurship does good work, is supported financially since 2002 and has employees in all counties. The activity has increased dramatically. Last year, over 7,800 students attended 266 secondary schools. The Committee has just pointed out that training is organised differently at different schools, and so is the case. But, of course, more can be done to stimulate even more cooperation, and the skills of teachers also need to be increased. Since 1990, the Stavanger University has had a higher education in working life with a focus on entrepreneurship. The University of Bodø will now start a study of innovation and entrepreneurship for teachers in primary education, with a background in the Government Strategy Plan. The aim, they say, is to train all those working on innovation and entrepreneurship in education and training to meet the challenges of this national initiative. When the Church, Education and Research Committee was in Brussels last week, we heard a lot about the Lisbon Strategy, which was adopted by the EU in 2000. Entrepreneurship in education also has a central place. Among other things, the Leonardo da Vinci programme shall promote innovation and entrepreneurship in Europe through change measures related to professional and professional training. Of the approx. There have been 100 Norwegian-led projects in 4000 major projects, so it is fully possible to follow-up with even more actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e246	The centre party will underline the importance of the school stimulating the capacity of students to think creatively. Training should allow students to develop and pursue ideas and skills for problem solving and innovation. Making children and young people aware of the possibility of pursuing their own ideas and transforming them into concrete projects will be of great importance for future value creation, which we really need in our country to maintain a good welfare society. Here are new jobs job no. 1st@item: inlistbox It's not long since the Stortinget unanimously agreed to increased entrepreneurship in the school, Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 – to which the representative Scarbøvik referred. Further follow-up should facilitate the integration of entrepreneurship as part of education at all levels of education, through different methods and forms of work. I would like to underline the importance of giving a high degree of local freedom to choose the way in which entrepreneurship is to be included in training. The Centre has noted the results of various evaluations of student and youth enterprises as well as reports from various research institutions which conclude that pupils and youth enterprises have produced very good results not only for the working and learning environment at school but also for the proportion that later establish their own activities. We believe this shows that introducing children and young people to entrepreneurship through school could be an important tool in achieving the objective of bringing Norway closer to innovation and innovation. A large part of today’s entrepreneurial activity is supported by the Young Entrepreneurship Foundation, but its appropriations have been reduced since its inception. We believe that it is important to safeguard the competences and experience already gained, and therefore support the proposal to continue the ‘Innovation and Entrepreneurship Programme in Education and Training in Norway’. It is important to put in place a more permanent funding. We are therefore pleased that the Committee together says that funding needs to be secured now during the evaluation process, and then we get back to future funding when the evaluation is available. The central party believes it is important to secure future funding. At the same time, it is important to stress that industry should take responsibility for stimulating innovation and innovation by supporting such initial training measures. In addition, we believe that school owners need to be given financial space to develop their own teaching arrangements, in line with the ideas presented by the students. The Parties also share the understanding of the need to strengthen the competence of teachers to disseminate entrepreneurship as a theme of training. We point to the fact that entrepreneurship has already been adopted as a subject in general teacher training, but for those teachers who are already employed in school, refilling in the form of continuing training offers will be necessary. The Centre Party supports the proposal to make entrepreneurship a mandatory subject in initial training. Entrepreneurship is a theme that will give students a practical understanding of the knowledge they have acquired interdisciplinaryally. In this way, entrepreneurship training acts as a learning support for the theoretical subjects on the agenda. We therefore believe that entrepreneurship should be incorporated as a subject in other disciplines, but without stipulating the subject in its own curriculum. That's why we also write in the setting that we want something to say about this in the general part of the curriculum and in the regulations and instructions for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e263	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e266	One has to avoid that the investment in Young Entrepreneurship is based only on ‘illuminated’ business activities, writes the Socialist Left in its comments, and believes that a high level of training is also necessary for the fires from the business community involved in these collaborative projects. I think that, with respect to reporting, is a significant underestimation of what Norwegian business can contribute in such contexts. If there is something that has brought business and entrepreneurship in the future, there are well-fired activities around tens of thousands of small businesses in this country — and some have actually become significant in the national context. That is why it is not enough in the discussion about Young Entrepreneurship to count on what is called a ‘great boost’ from the public, as is also said from the Socialist Left Party, that the State budget also solves this problem, that we can be sure that the school takes care of it all, and that the results are ticking in itself – as thought in Norwegian school in other disciplines until this government has shown something quite different. The mentors and advisers of the business community in relation to Young Entrepreneurship must have sufficient competence, says the Socialist Left Party. Yes, can they? Each small place and nose in this country often has more examples of good entrepreneurship. Many of these are autodidactic skills, each in its own way, which should not be forced into curricula and general patterns. Let these be role models in their behavior and in the results they can often point to. Rather, through concrete policies, let us show that we appreciate these people. Let's take them as they are, also in terms of their contribution to teaching our children and our youth what entrepreneurship can be. Entrepreneurship can never become something society can feel confident about in the future only it has been introduced as a mandatory multidisciplinary subject and method of training. No, let's show in practical politics what we think about mentors and entrepreneurship. The right and government parties have given these fires and their employees an inspiration of NOK 23 billion in tax relief so far in this period, in addition to a fiscal policy that has provided a low interest rate and a favourable exchange rate. I am pleased to see that the Socialist Left Party's fiscal spokesman is among the proposers who think of Young Entrepreneurship and of the fires of industry. Let us hope that it will also be considered when it comes to new debates on Norwegian business and the framework conditions of private ownership, and not least tax debates. Then I ask both him and the party to think that entrepreneurship can never be any school subject that can be solved with government appropriations and government-determined methods and curricula. No, it must be demonstrated in practical action that it will really support the business that provides the basis for the creation of value and welfare communities. Everything suggests that there is a significantly greater challenge for the Socialist Left than proposing entrepreneurship as a mandatory subject and method of initial training, and so believe that all the problems have been solved in terms of our future value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e288	We then go to voting in case No. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28.ana.ud2441e295	During the debate, Ms Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size calls on the Government to introduce entrepreneurship as a mandatory multidisciplinary topic and method of initial training. Entrepreneurship training shall be anchored in a separate curriculum where the objectives and content of training at all stages are clearly stated. The design of own curricula for entrepreneurship is carried out in the context of the other reform of the curriculum towards 2006.2. The government asks the government to organise all interdisciplinary subjects in initial training in its own curricula or thematic plans. [[entrepreneurship, technology and design, environmental education]] The thematic plans must set out the objectives of competence for each topic and be designed in such a way that the whole and the intention of the topic is made clear. The content of these plans must be coordinated in such a way as to support each other in the best possible way.3. The government is asking the government to facilitate a level playing field in entrepreneurship learning. A lack of competence will require the continuing training of teachers and the development of new and appropriate teaching materials, as well as professional and methodological entrepreneurship training in teacher training. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an overall arrangement.4. The Government is asked to take responsibility for the continuation of the ‘Innovation and Entrepreneurship Programme in Education and Training in Norway’ through the Young Entrepreneurship Organisation. [[UE]] State funding shall be provided through own allocation of the State budget.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
