ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e26	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the county of Hedmark: Arnfinn Nergård For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Else-May Botten For the Rogaland County: Helge Solum Larsen For the South-Trøndelag County: Linda Cathrine Hofstad An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative Eli Sollied Överaas from 6 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Oddbjørn Waterne, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e62	The polar bear Waterne is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e76	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e85	I would like to start by stressing that successful industrial policy, growth and competitiveness depend on a responsible economic policy based on predictability and long-termity of instruments and framework conditions. One of the most important tasks for the new government will therefore be to pursue a targeted policy on industrial development and value creation. It requires a significant focus on research and development, on stimulating entrepreneurship and establishing willingness, on the development of strong business clusters in areas where Norway has special advantages, and not least on the maintenance and development of infrastructure, such as roads and broadband. Without value creation and jobs, there will be no well-being to distribute. Industry is increasingly characterised by increasing diversity and different needs. Competition between enterprises and between nations is about the ability to convert and the pursuit of competitive advantage. It suggests that industrial policy should be directed in a completely different way than before towards identifying Norwegian preference and strengthening it through the choice of industrial policy instruments. The centre party has long been concerned about – and the government is concerned about it – that we should work for a national business strategy, where a systematic approach to further developing business throughout the country is based on natural resources, capital strength and knowledge. It definitely implies that the principle of nutrition neutrality must give way to bet in clearly defined areas, such as: marine industries, shipping and shipbuilding, energy, oil and gas, travel and food production. The Government's extension of the net pay scheme for seafarers is an example of a targeted shipping effort. It is also important to focus more on strengthening Norwegian industry and product production. Through research and development, the knowledge content of Norwegian-produced goods and services needs to be increased in order to ensure competitiveness in the international market. Increased innovation capacity and spin-offs from existing companies are needed as well as increasing number of university and research community start-ups. Innovation and innovation depend on the existence of people who can and will create something new and useful. We need to mobilise more people to drive innovation through appropriate training and by creating positive role models by the successful entrepreneurs. The government has begun its work of chiseling out a targeted and active enterprise policy. Soria Moria is a good foundation, and the 2006 budget is a good start. Norwegian agriculture is the main task of producing safe and clean food. It's a good thing for society. A viable Norway requires a viable agriculture. It involves agriculture where there is room for both small and large units and where local diversity and creativity are encouraged. The importance of agriculture for a living District Norway is enormous. It is therefore essential to ensure a varied use structure. The central party sees agricultural policy as one of the pillars of rural policy. Effective import protection is a fundamental prerequisite for a national agricultural policy. All countries must have the right and a moral duty to ensure their own food supply and to have a varied agriculture that makes this possible. Norway has rich grazing acids, but a cold climate and relatively small properties. We will therefore never be able to win the international battle for the cheapest food possible. The economic framework conditions laid down in the agricultural holding must ensure the profitability of varied food production. A diverse country requires a diverse agricultural policy. The liberalisation of agricultural policy is incompatible with the many tasks assigned to agriculture. With a new government – and not least a new Minister of Agriculture and Food – we see a new course in the WTO negotiations. Closeness has been replaced by transparency. Passiveness has been replaced by an offensive strategy. There have been very many positive reactions to the government's course. Agriculture often meets with allegations of a lack of willingness to convert. It's completely wrong. We have offensive agriculture in Norway today, an industry that thinks new every day, finds smart solutions and develops exciting products for new markets. Agriculture has had a strong productivity growth in recent years and has an innovation rate well above many other industries. It is old-fashioned to believe that development is the same as a reduction in the number of annual agricultural work and a centralisation of food production. It is modern and offensive to focus on a development that underpins the advantages of Norway in an international context, namely a decentralised settlement, a beautiful cultural landscape and the long-term management of our vast natural resources. The government is ready to stimulate the opportunities available in the districts of Norway and in the countryside. We want to use the whole country, both develop traditional agriculture and facilitate new industries and products based on individual uses in rural areas. A continued opportunity to pursue that path must be an important driving force in the further WTO negotiations. And let me underline: there is nothing in the way of – or some contradiction in – both working for noble interests and at the same time acting as supporters of the countries where the poor part of the world lives. The government will ensure long-term national right to rule over our marine resources and our marine areas. The fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. Let's make it clear. No individual or individual company may be granted exclusive exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge while others are excluded from fishing. The management of fish resources is a national responsibility. In order for Norway to continue to ensure high value creation related to coastal industries, fisheries and aquaculture, it is essential to have a management that provides the basis for a long-term harvest of resources. Fisheries and aquaculture policy needs to be designed to help ensure profitable businesses, competitiveness and increased market focus throughout the value chain, as well as to pursue important rural policy objectives on jobs and housing. Sea and coastal resources shall be used as a basis for work and income for the largest possible number of people. In the area of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, I would like to highlight in particular the priorities of the Government to strengthen the trust and legitimacy of the Norwegian-Russian administrative regime – I refer to the increase in both the budget of the Directorate of Fisheries and the budget of the Coastal Guard – for enhanced resource control and for an increased presence in the north. Norway is facing a very extensive problem of unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea. Large quantities of fish are taken illegally, with consequent negative environmental and, in particular, economic consequences for Norwegian fishermen and Norwegian communities. The trust in Norwegian fisheries management and the joint Norwegian-Russian management responsibility for key stocks in the Barents Sea are at risk of being undermined in this way. A number of recent events, as well as re-loading issues, are illustrative of the challenges facing Norwegian authorities in their efforts to achieve a responsible, sustainable and controlled resource take-off in this maritime area. This is also an area where the new government is responsible for a new and more offensive policy. The centre party said in the election campaign that the northern regions and fisheries interests had to be placed higher on the agenda. The budget shows that the work has begun, and we are very pleased about that. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its excellent cooperation and recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e136	From both the centre party team and from the Bondelag, it is constantly heard that there are so low incomes in agriculture and that the individual farmer is left with very few funds. Even less than the public contribution is left in support. In an interview in the United Nations on Saturday, 3 December, the representative Lars Peder Breck says: ‘Today, an average annual agricultural production is SEK 137.000.’ Will not the industry benefit from some leaving agriculture as a job, so that incomes and opportunities for development are much better for those who are left?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e148	In recent years there has been a significant change in the Norwegian agricultural industry. There has been a significant decrease in the number of uses, a development that the centre party does not want. We are committed to ensuring and further developing the agriculture we have today. We are committed to ensuring and further developing the level of income in agriculture, and not least we are committed to ensuring the importance of agriculture in districts and district policies. When the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr mentions that it can be profitable, as the Progress Party sees it, to reduce the number of actors in the industry, the example shows the irresponsibleness of the policy of the Progress Party. That policy would entail a reduction of important regional interests and a reduction of employment and jobs in districts. We're going against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e155	Two of the things that the red-green parties promised in the election campaign were increasing in taxes and that part of this would go to a more active business policy. So the first of these two numbers, they're going to satisfy each of these numbers. But when it comes to the more active industrial policy, I think there is a reason to ask the representative Breck: Is the Centre comfortable with a business policy where the new government, in relation to the centre-right government, cuts sharply in research and development – 100 million. kr only on the Ministry of Industry’s budget? Is the Central Party and the representative Breck comfortable with a situation where a deterioration in the depreciation rates is significant in relation to the Bondevik II government, i.e. with SEK 1.5 billion, and where one is also spending less on an expanding travel industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e160	The representative Petter Løvik points out what he calls promises in the election campaign to increase taxes and get a more active industrial policy. We have contributed to more community and greater commitment to the welfare community, to the local economy, etc. This government also makes many good proposals in its budget, involving increased commitment to an active industrial policy. I would like to stress that it is quite free from the representatives of the Right, who have for many years contributed to the reduction of the business environment and the reduction of the SND, SIVA and so on, saying that this government is destroying these instruments. We have continued and increased the investment in these instruments compared to last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e167	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to maintain a living agriculture throughout the country. Farmers also need to ensure income development in line with other groups. The Soria Moria Declaration has many fine programming formulas even when it comes to agriculture's future, but in the government's budget, I have a little problem with seeing consistency between life and learning. This is also confirmed by the Bondelag's strong concern that the red-green budget significantly weakens agriculture's framework conditions. My question to the representative Breck will then be: Is the Senterpartiet satisfied with the new course of agricultural policy? Or is what we see here, one of the Central Party's defeats in the internal budgetary negotiations in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e176	The representative Ingebrigt Sørfonn and I share the view that we are going to take care of a living agriculture, and that we are going to take care of the districts and jobs around. I want to mention as a response to the line here that the Christian People's Party has contributed to the removal of 900 million. kr in the last four years in relation to the development of income in agriculture. In this way, the Christian People's Party also has some things they should have thought about in their policies. As regards the framework conditions for business and the work to ensure small and medium-sized enterprises also in agriculture, it is clear that we want to go further. We want to go forward. That will be the starting point for the further work of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e187	The government and the new majority have seen industrial policy high on the agenda. We're concerned that we have to create to be able to distribute. We will henceforth lead an active enterprise policy. The new government's Soria Moria Declaration is a farewell to nutrition neutrality. Together with the SV and the Centre Party, the Labour Party will pursue an offensive industrial policy to secure value creation and further develop the welfare society. We will establish new and better tools to secure employment and growth across the country. Norway shall be a good country to engage in business activities, and the State shall be engaged in business and employee partnerships. The public tools must be strengthened. Governments will develop national strategies in the fields of competence or special advantages such as marine, maritime, energy, environment and travel. We will take care of and further develop the industry and at the same time be involved in developing new industrial activities. We want Norwegian raw materials to be further processed in Norway. By means of a central and local tool, industry will be guaranteed good and stable framework conditions. Today's budget setting means a budget that puts new tools in the register. We are strengthening the public tools, and e.g. Innovation Norway's budget will increase by over 300 million. kr in relation to 2005. This should be used, among other things. development project, travel life initiatives, maritime development, research and development. The government is further investing in young entrepreneurship with a budget increase of 6 million. kr. In addition, we have said in the Soria Moria statement that we want entrepreneurship as part of basic education in the school. Space and nutrition research have also been strengthened in comparison with 2005. I would also like to highlight the commitment made to the right-of-principle design of this budget. An increase of almost 50 pst. to the Norwegian Design Council, it will be possible to expand the strategic focus on design in 2006. I believe that the use of design in the development and marketing of the Norwegian product strengthens the competitiveness of the companies internationally. Norwegian shipping has long traditions. Here we have many areas of competence which are now guaranteed by the fact that the new government has given priority to expanding the net pay system. We've already seen the results of our policy. Color Line should invest in new ships, Fjord Line host in Norway – yes, many jobs are actually secured by this measure. They can do that because we now have a multiple government that gives care to the industry. This will also be the case for other industries, which get the long-term and stable framework conditions a multi-annual government provides. Of other tools, I would like to mention the work of a new acquisition law. Work is in progress. The aim of the new law is to prevent the creation of economically viable jobs. The government will also conduct an active ownership policy focusing on the value creation and further development of the enterprises in which it owns. With active ownership, I think, among other things. that the State shall be a demanding and professional owner, having clear expectations of the company's board of directors and leases, but which may also settle for companies when required. Another important tool for business is access to capital. The government will follow up the Soria Moria Declaration and will establish new schemes to improve the access to capital of Norwegian enterprises, so that one can facilitate the securing of a good framework for innovation and innovation in Norwegian business. The budget we are adopting today provides a good basis for securing competitiveness for Norwegian industry and business. Business and competition policy shall contribute to increasing the competitiveness of business. In order to secure a competitive Norwegian business, competition policy is one of several measures in a targeted industrial policy, where public active ownership, research and development, innovation and development of competences are also elements in developing competitiveness. Norway is one of the world's most highly qualified countries. At the same time, the proportion of women in employment is highest. This is an advantage of competence that we need to exploit. This, in combination with natural resources, gives us unique possibilities. The new Majority has the aim of sustaining a living agriculture throughout the country. This is a demanding goal, and a targeted policy is needed to achieve this. Not least, the challenges are great in relation to the ongoing negotiations with the WTO. It is important that the Government is actively working to maximise the space for action, but we also need to act as supporters for countries that promote the interests of the poor part of the world's people. Agriculture plays an important role in the construction and employment of large parts of the country. It is common and covers agriculture, forestry, grazing and reindeer farming. Agriculture is also important for industries such as tourism, culture and the food industry. Norwegian food is a limited resource, which is a national responsibility to care for our descendants. Fisheries and aquaculture have a high potential for value creation, and this industry is also of great importance for busses and employment. The government will lead a fisheries policy to promote the creation of value added and a fair distribution of resources. The government will guarantee national power and control of our marine resources and marine areas. The government will not privatise any fish resources. No person shall be able to hold a fixed share of the set quota. Regions and municipalities, together with active fishermen, shall be able to own vessels with allowances within the current Participant Act. Fishing resources must be managed for the highest possible resource withdrawals within resilient frames and for the most stable withdrawals from year to year. An effective resource control is needed to prevent and detect resource crime. The Fisheries Directorate's budget is therefore increased by 15 million. kr, so that the resource control can be strengthened. A major ship is required to report and a vessel is subject to more frequent checks. Norway is a fantastic country, in which we have all the potential to develop and run businesses. It only applies to directing the right policy, putting the right tools in place and using the competences of the entire people. Therefore, I am pleased with the new plurality, which is willing to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e232	The representative of Eldegard was in his speech on the different framework conditions for Norwegian business and the Government’s desire for an active, offensive industrial policy, access to energy and investment in research. She made it clear that the government's budget would secure Norwegian jobs in the future. What is strange to me then is the announcement of the introduction of a new and stricter acquisition law. The government was almost not in place in its offices until the Minister of Industry was out and notified of the reintroduction of such a law, which no one used last time it was in force. If the government budget is so good for business, what is the need for a new acquisition law? Is it the case that the Workers' Party itself does not believe in the active industrial policy that they are at the forefront of, and must have its own law to rely on when companies will move and establish themselves in markets where politicians are more responsive to the challenges of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e237	Yes, it is true that we want to get a new acquisition law. And as I said in my introduction, the objective of the new law is that it's going to be harder to lay down profitable jobs. This was a scream left in the Union bag. Everyone, from both the right and the left in Norwegian politics, is wondering what we can do in such situations, where we actually see companies with solid surpluses. We're wondering what kind of agent it's possible to use. The Ministry and the Government have now started to create such an acquisition law, precisely with the aim of reducing unprofitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e244	The Labour Party has talked a lot about the need for a new course in business policy. The fasitator is that companies have received a triple notification, with increased pressure on interest rates and rates, increased taxes and cuts in research, innovation and traditional instruments. The government is working on the new course on several fronts. The Minister of Industry has announced new acquisition laws, which will not ensure jobs but will make it less attractive to operate from Norway. The Minister of Renewal is working on a six-hour day, which is a very risky line for the industry. And on Friday we were told that the Socialist Left Party will give 40 pst. by the votes of the employees' general meeting of the companies, in practice a confiscation of values unparalleled in recent Norwegian history. The question is not clarified in the government statement, and the signals from the Socialist Left go in several directions. What do the Labour Party and the representative Gunvor Eldegard think about this? Will the Workers' Party give employees greater influence in the governing bodies of the companies at the expense of the owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e253	I want to answer the last question first, by referring to the Soria Moria statement. We haven't said anything about 40 pst. representation of the members of the general meetings. Then the Judge's representative says that we have cut innovation and research. If we look at the budgets that Right was with and created while they were in government, and compare the numbers that come out there, with the numbers in the new budget, the right-wing representative will also see that we have actually increased the opportunities for innovation and research. When it applies to the six-hour day, I'll say it so that I think we have to think of it as a possibility. Sometimes it is important to think about new things, to see if it is possible to change the working life just to get more people out of work. More work is also a better business policy for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e262	For the Christian People's Party, it is crucial that business has a framework that can provide both optimism, growth and development. We've heard a lot about the red-green government now filling the food minister's toolbox, and that might be necessary. When the red-green budget proposal was presented by the Minister of Industry, he confirmed that, after all, they had not removed all the good tools that the Cooperation Administration had put in the toolbox, but I have a little problem with the logic of the red-green thinking, and I hope that the representative Eldegard can help me a little. How can business be stimulated by increasing the tax burden on businesses? How can research and development be stimulated by reducing the research fund? The last one goes a little bit on the question that Mr. Hansen asked, where it was just referred to the Soria Moria statement. My question is a little more specific: Does the Swedish Labour Party support SV's thesis from the last week that an incentive for investment and innovation by reducing the ownership of its management rights in its own company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e269	First of all, I'm glad that the Christian People's Party also wants an active industrial policy, and that during this period they might want to be on it, contrary to what they showed in the previous government in the last four years. The representative, Sørfonn, says that an increase in the tax burden on companies. I think what's important for business is stable framework conditions, where they know what's going to happen in the next four years, and that's what I'm saying, a multi-territorial government can do. We have not reduced the Research Fund. We have not increased as much as the Bondevik government suggested, but we have increased it compared to 2005. It's very important. When this applies to 40 p.m., I have replied to it: this is not the Government's policy, nor is the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e276	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e279	It is true that the business community in Norway is doing quite well. At the same time, it is not possible to undermine the fact that over several years there has been a decline in competitive business. Innovation has become weaker than in the countries we often compare with. That is why we in the Progress Party believe that there is a need for a new industrial policy. We see that the new government is coming up with a new policy that is going in the wrong direction. Then they have some old policies that have been tried before, and that have not been successful. What matters to us in the Progress Party is that industry has an equal opportunity to compete, both nationally and internationally. It's true that there are many areas where we have the opportunity to be the best in the class, among other things. in biomarine industry, energy, offshore industry, maritime industry, travel and a number of other areas. In the power-intensive industry, there are also good opportunities, but there has been no willingness to exploit it. It's a fact that we're a country that's overflowing with energy. In Norway today, we produce approx. 3000 TWh, and we consume about 10 pst., and then you can have the political art piece to have a power deficit. It is understandable to me that we are able to have such a policy in this area. It's a policy that's been going on for many, many years, and I have no faith that the new government is able to solve this. The new government is also in relation to the old government in a CO2 psychosis and lives in a fog world when it comes to CO2 issues. If one were to be consistent in this policy area, all oil and gas extraction should have been stopped in Norway. At least I'm glad you don't. Similarly, it has been found to be right to bet on windmills. Windmills have many disadvantages. One disadvantage is that they constitute a visual encapsulation. The other disadvantage is that they don't produce electricity when it's still in the wind. You can't have an industry that's going to live by the weather. So you try to get out of this by building a pipeline down to Europe to get power back in cables. At least you should have made sure that Statnet got the money to build these cables, but you don't. So how to solve this problem is at least not clear from what has come from the Government so far. What you can read in the Soria Moria statement is that it's not going to be solved in this four-year period. I think that's bad. I mentioned this with windmills. It's also something that takes up the tourism industry more and more. They are becoming increasingly concerned because there are plans for a large-scale development that is helping to reduce the quality of the product that we can really live on here in Norway, namely travel life. It is one of the most important district industries, which has a huge potential for growth. You have to have the will to bet on it. Then you must not be part of the seams of Norwegian nature with a lot of windmills that are standing and rotating around, and that there is no need to have. Similarly, I must say that I am disappointed that no more large-scale investment can be made in the profiling of Norwegian travel life abroad. We've proposed $300 million. kr on our alternative state budget. There should have been a majority in this room to grant these funds. There can't be any pressure on the Norwegian economy, all the time we spend money abroad. It is absolutely necessary to set such a high rate, because in reality there are two products, particularly in Norway. You have the winter season, and you have the summer season. There are two different groups to reach, and marketing means are required. Summer activity goes reasonably well, but in wintertime you wear. There you should be there and bet as the Progress Party wants. Also Hurtigruta is an important part of the tourism effort. That is why I am particularly disappointed that the new government could not participate in our proposal for a net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. Because there was no way of how many representatives, especially from the Workers' Party, who were in the election campaign and promised that the net pay scheme would come into place. When the election campaign was over, and you had celebrated with champagne and what was worse, they disappeared the promises that were good for the sun. I have not seen a single representative from the Workers' Party who has subsequently engaged in this matter. Here the government has been passive and referred to an agreement that Hurtigruta has entered into with the state, and uses it as a kind of justification for not having a net pay scheme for Hurtigruta. We are concerned that there should be a level playing field for Hurtigruta. We see that the Hurtigruta to survive now begins to go to Chile and has a cruise there. The response will, of course, be that foreign companies come and sail along the Norwegian coast to compete with Hurtigruta – and at a completely different price, because they have much lower costs. Then I think Hurtigruta will get even bigger problems than is the case today. A sea opportunity, that is the situation for the Norwegian fishing industry. I would like to say that former fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen has done a good job and that he did a necessary job for the Norwegian fishing industry. Unfortunately, we have got a new government, a new fisheries minister, who wants to return to the past, where fisheries policy must be a district policy. Because no matter how you turn it around and turn it around, it's an overcapacity both at sea and on land. What you're looking at as the unregulated overfishing increases is that the quotas are getting smaller. Nevertheless, the new government has to introduce new ways of calculating allowances. There are others who need to be involved in the fishing. How does that work out? I'm just wondering. It is possible for the Minister of Fisheries to be conjured up. I have a sense for people who can magic, but I have no faith that in this world of reality you can do this. The first thing the Minister for Fisheries did was freeze the structural measures in the fishing fleet. This led to massive protests. There wasn't so much media talk about it, because there were so many other government councils that did so much else strangely, that it got to sail a little bit of its own sea. But we who could read in the fishing media were told that if this was done, we were threatened to block the port in Svolvær and elsewhere. Fortunately, the Minister for Fisheries made sense and stopped the conversion measures that were in progress. I just hope that, in the future, the Minister for Fisheries will have a dialogue with the fishing industry, so that the fishing industry and the fishermen can also have a long-term perspective in what they are doing, and must not deal with a policy that varies from day to day and according to how eager the Minister for Fisheries is to implement the old-fashioned policy that we are trying to achieve. As regards the forthcoming WTO negotiations, the fishing industry faces one of its main challenges in getting a good deal of agreement. I have to say that it has been quite passive on the part of the Government and the Minister for Fisheries in this way with regard to the fisheries policy and the positions Norway should have taken in advance of these negotiations. I would just like to ask the Minister for Fisheries to try in the future to pursue a more active policy in this area and take care of the interests of the fishing industry, just as the Minister for Agriculture has done for the agricultural industry. To date, it has been the Minister of Agriculture who has been allowed to run the show in relation to the WTO negotiations. Finally, we have today distributed in the Chamber a proposal to strengthen the Coast Guard. We are promoting this on the basis that Torbjørn Bongo, who is the head of the Norwegian Officers' Federation, believes that there will be 100 fewer days at sea for the Coast Guard in the next few years. It applies to the helicopter carrying vessels. It'll help weaken the Coast Guard. We cannot accept this, and that is why we have promoted the proposal. I hope it gets the majority in this hall, because there are great values at stake. The values are so large that they correspond to the dividends from many NOKAS-ran, and then it should be easy to grant these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e317	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. The President expects the representative to also address the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e323	Yeah, I'm promoting them, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e331	I have great difficulty taking the Advance Party seriously. The Progress Party will repeal regulations and management tools. It's going to take away 4,600 million. NOK from Norwegian agriculture. The flow shall be free and market forces shall be crude. They will introduce nutritional neutrality throughout the line. What kind of society is this going to be? I would like to remind the representative of Korsberg that the time when industrial policy and district policy went hand in hand, we were able to create both businesses and jobs. Therefore, authorities must actively participate in business and district development. What do the Progress Party and the representative of Korsberg really mean when they want a new industrial policy in the broadest sense? What is the principle of free competition for only industries, providing ‘good social solutions’? What are the ‘good social solutions’ that the Progress Party points to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e340	It is absolutely right that we want to release the Norwegian farmer. We believe that the Norwegian farmer’s food production is an industrial activity similar to all other industrial activities. It is also necessary to ensure that the conditions are set in order to allow Norwegian farmers to produce the food they want, without having a number of strict regulations and preventing them from doing so. Looking like those in the nations last week, we see that there are more and more farmers who are beginning to think about alternative operations, to facilitate good nutrition development and to ensure that you can have building services, off-road industries and different things like that. I also have to remind the representative Upbeøen Hansen that we have done a number of things for Norwegian farmers in the form of good predatory policies and much less protective restrictions than the Workers' Party has stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e347	The party, which in its time was set up for a strong reduction in taxes and taxes, demonstrates in this budget a rather limited concern for business. We have been estimated that the draft budget of the Progress Party would have been close to 100 million. the increased fees and charges for business through self-financing policies, registers and entities. For example, the proposed cut of 12 million would be proposed by the Progress Party. kr in the Fisheries Directorate involved increased inspection fees and aquaculture fees in order to maintain efforts against non-regulated fisheries. But perhaps the distributed proposals of the Progress Party are to be understood as a proposal for further boosting the industry's contribution? That is my question to the representative of Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e352	With regard to this distributed proposal, it must be seen in full and in conjunction with our alternative state budget, which was being debated in this Chamber two weeks ago. You can't just raise some parts of the budget and ask some questions about it. It's going to be completely wrong, but I understand that SV does. And when you see the last performances as parliamentary leader in SV, Inge Ryan, and the Vice-Chairman has come along, I see that this with business policy can be quite vehement. With regard to the proposal we have made today, there is a strengthening of the Coast Guard. You don't get any more inspectors if you strengthen a department. You actually have to strengthen where the control is going to take place, and it's out on the sea. I thought SV had understood that. We are promoting proposals to strengthen the Coast Guard, and this is fully in line with what we have proposed in relation to the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e359	I will agree with one thing the representative of Korsberg said, that it is necessary to strengthen the Coast Guard. The government has absolutely done that, to mention it. The Progress Party and Korsberg say that we should release the Norwegian farmer. We must take the Progress Party – as the largest opposition party – seriously when they say it. They cut the agricultural agreement at NOK 5.6 billion, they remove all concession laws, they remove all production and market regulations, and they want to remove customs protection. Everything will happen overnight on 1 January 2006, i.e. in a few weeks. What impact will this have on the number of jobs in the food industry, where we have 50 000 industrial jobs today? What consequences will it have in agriculture, where we have 50 000 jobs today? What consequences will this have for employment and residence in the country? The Progress Party must now begin to put its policy into practice. It is not possible to come with pious desires without putting them into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e368	Let me start with the first one. It is true that the government has strengthened the Coast Guard a little bit. But it's also a fact – and I'm referring to a headline in the media last week – that there will be 100 fewer days at sea for the Coast Guard in the case of the large helicopter carrying vessels. It's the most effective ones to run control, so here there's a need for a reinforcement. In fact, with regard to the proposals for agricultural policy of the Progress Party, this could be the consequence of the WTO negotiations. I think it would be appropriate for Norwegian farmers to adapt much more to the reality that will gradually force themselves and come to Norway, so that they are prepared to face the real world and the competition they are going to face in the future. In addition, this will help to ensure that Norwegian consumers receive reasonable and reasonable food offers, as they have in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e378	The chairperson of the Committee, Mr Breck, said in his speech that the previous government was involved in a reduction of the instrument. He probably owed us a relatively labyrinth of business policy. I think this is turning things all the way down. On the fruits shall the tree be known, says an old word. If we look at the fruits of what was done the four years we got in government, there's a lot of positive things that I think we're going to remember before we pass a negative judgment on that policy. We've managed to turn a business into a business. We've made one progress. We've got an increased employment in Norwegian business. We've got a better paycheck. The unemployment rate is at full speed downwards. The mechanism used for this is a general policy to keep interest rates and exchange rates down and to keep costs down. It will be completely wrong when the representative Breck claims that we have built up the workshop. What we've done is we've changed some tools. We've introduced some new tools that are more effective than the old ones. I am thinking in particular of SkattenFUNN, a system that has become very popular in business, and that has created a lot of places for growth and development. If we look at agricultural policy, we have now four consecutive years of agreement between the parties. It's been very many years since we had such a line, where the agreements went into box without the Storting having to intervene. As far as fishing is concerned, we have had a very positive development both on the sea side and on the land, with profitability, in which we are making every record this year when it comes to exports, where the agricultural industry in the fisheries sector, i.e. the fishing industry, is gathering with surplus. It's probably six or seven years since the last time this happened. At the same time, we have had an optimism and a restructuring and conversion that gives good conditions for this industry in the future. Up here, the new government wants a new course. The new course is very many in business – and we in the Right – who fear in a lot of areas. What I believe will be the harm of the new policy is the future well-being in Norway, the future ability to provide well-being, to have income and to have public services and private wealth like what we have today. We have a situation in which one in the fisheries sector creates quite a lot of uncertainty in a very large number of areas. There are several unanswered questions in this area, and I will come back a little later today. In business as a whole, we see a trend towards what would create growth, development and innovation being set back with the new government in line with what the Centre-Right-Registration proposed. Stoltenberg II has cuts in depreciation rules. The Bondevik II government would increase depreciation on machines, from 20 to 25 p.m., just to create new investments to create development, to stimulate change and innovation. We also wanted to develop more of the tools that have been used for research and development over several years through the Research Fund, which unfortunately was severely cut off by the new government, and also through direct research, development, development, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. When we look at this against the fine promises that came both before the elections and in the Soria Moria Declaration, about a more active industrial policy, there is reason to ask: where did this new policy come from? Is it a stagnation policy? Is it an old-fashioned policy just to keep the old? Or will we at some point see some of the active business policy promised by these parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e399	Right is trying to represent what is going to be the government cutting edge of research and innovation. That's not correct. The budget that we are to adopt increases both the Research Council and Innovation Norway's contribution to this year's budget. I'm glad. Today, we can read about the major challenges Norway faces by the fact that jobs in the service sector are at risk of disappearing abroad. It is important to have an offensive attitude to this. Norway has good potential to assert itself in global competition if we facilitate growth and innovation in business. The Labour Party will pursue an active industrial policy with a focus on research and development to strengthen the business we have and to stimulate the emergence of new activities. I am pleased that the Bondevik government took a force for Innovation Norway in its last draft state budget – after several years with cuts. Can the representative of Løvik comment on this sudden interest in these important industrial policy instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e406	The answer is yes and no, because there is a claim in the representative Eldegard's reply that I do not buy completely. As I said in my post, from the first day, we have invested primarily in the general conditions that benefit all business: to bring down the costs, to bring down the interest and to keep down the exchange rate to ensure that it is competitive. We have invested in new tools as well as in the traditional ones, and especially the TreasureFUNN, which has become very popular. Now that we've come to this point that we want to preserve all of the previous constraints we've had, and have come with some new ones, is a completely natural development. This year there was research and development that we wanted to strengthen for another year, and we wanted to strengthen part of the campaign on travel life in addition to Innovation Norway. So we still have new hijackers that we're picking from a full toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e413	A few years ago, the Right majority of the city council in Trondheim sold out their legacy silver, Trondheim Energieverk. Since then, the value has doubled. Luckily, the buyer was called State Power, so that TEV remained in public ownership. Recently, our Minister of Renewal ensured that ownership can remain public by stopping the sale of TEV. But the right-hand target is to sell the state currency press Statkraft. My question to the representative Løvik will therefore be: What is the amount of future revenues Right-wing can afford to get rid of? Does the Right see the importance of having national control over eternal natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e418	The current case of the e-work in Trondheim has been high on the agenda in recent times. On the Right's side, we've had objections when the new government councils go in and review the Competition Authority. If we are to have a supply situation that benefits consumers, so that we can keep prices down, real competition is also crucial in the electricity market. So both in the comments in the setting, as the representative has certainly seen, and otherwise we have expressed that we are very sceptical of what the Council of State has done there. When it comes to ownership relationships with Statkraft and other companies, Right has no religious relationship to this. What's always in our interest is to be able to provide consumers with a safe supply and a reasonable supply of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e425	In its statement, the representative, Mr Løvik, was pleased to note the structural policy pursued by former Minister for Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen. I would like to mention that in the last representative meeting of the Association of Fishermen, Sigurd Teige, the organisation’s leader, said the following: ‘How are we going to be?’ This was what he said in the context of structural policy. He then expressed a cross of thought. It was quite surprising that he, as the leader of the organization that has clearly supported that structural policy, expressed that crossroads of thought. We see that in the bankline fleet they ask themselves the question: Where are we going to be? In the group by group they ask themselves the question, how many are we going to be? My question to the representative Løvik is: Does the Right have any idea of how few people are going to stay in the fishing industry and of how to maintain housing and employment around the country with this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e430	Right does not have a planned economic document for the number of persons in each group. What we've said quite clearly is that when it comes to coastal/sea ratios, i.e., between the main groups, the ratio is going to be constant. that there will also be room for a wide range of actors in these groups in the future. When it comes to what has happened on the structuring page, I believe both the representative Breck and others will be with me that most people saw that there was a need to do something about the structure. We should remember and remind each other, as we know a little about the industry, that this is an industry completely free of State aid and state subsidies. If we are to be able to secure recruitment and a good future, good wages are important both on land and at sea. Therefore, structure is important also in those groups that are not so far structured.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e440	The government budget of the autumn is historical in the sense that it contains a very good SV policy. Then, basically, it's not the extension of the net pay scheme for the seafarers I have first and foremost in mind. But even here, there are important pieces that fall into place in view of the future of Norwegian seafarers. The State must not be a banknote press for the shipping companies. We have clear counterclaims for a scheme costing NOK 1.2 billion, such as the one in question. demonstrable investments in addition to the normal level of HMS work, innovation and industrial development in research institutions, suppliers and other enterprises in the maritime cluster as well as requirements for a certain number of apprenticeship places. In Stortinget, SV has been effective in its fight against fish fraud and in the fight for better resource control. SV is therefore very pleased with the commitment of the new Minister for Fisheries and with the increase in the budget of the Directorate for Fisheries. In our opinion, fish inspectors are going to sea and not land crabs because of lack of money. Furthermore, SV is pleased that we have received a much more offensive investment in organic farming. In the Soria Moria statement, we've established that 15 pst. of food production and consumption by 2015 shall be organic. In this setting, we therefore ask the Government to submit a plan for achieving this goal. The awareness of the environmental challenges we face is also expressed elsewhere in the position, namely in relation to the Natural Damage Fund. The entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, acknowledges that the risk of natural damage will increase as climate change approaches. But there is an overall committee which, on this basis, asks the Government to assess a review of the building legislation in razed areas. These are life-saving measures, as well as reducing future needs for collateral and compensation payments. Ownership gives legitimate rights to rule, even within the logic of capitalism. I've often wondered if that's why, for purely ideological reasons, the right-hand side is so concerned with distributing as much of the community property as possible to private people. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have stated that the Government will: ‘ensure strong public and national ownership in order to achieve key policy objectives and secure Community returns and revenues’. In the committee setting, we follow this up, and further establish that ownership should be active. The majority have noticed that the Government proposes to withdraw the powers to reduce the State’s holdings in Bane Tele AS, the Flytrain AS and Yara International ASA, and the majority support this. It is an important signal that this government does not sell public property as a goal in itself. This approach alerts a new and evidence-based review of competition policy — fact-based, because in recent years very much of the policy has been based on remote assumptions about the theoretical characteristics of competition, without the necessary rootstock in Norwegian reality. A few years ago, the Right majority of the city council in Trondheim took the loss that they sold out their legacy silver, Trondheim Energieverk, TEV. Fortunately, the buyer was then Statkraft, so the hydropower, the mains and the district heating network in Trondheim remained in public ownership. In retrospect, the Competition Authority has required Statkraft to sell itself down to Middle Norway, which resulted in TEV being resold for sale. No one knows who would have received the final award if the Minister of Renewal had not intervened and stopped the sale in the light of social considerations other than the competitive situation. But the likelihood of ownership of TEV leaving the country is great. This matter is in itself important enough to rejoice that there was a change of government. In addition, it should be borne in mind for municipalities that still own e-works, that the value of TEV has doubled over the last four years. Of course, it's not that SV is satisfied now – it's not exactly a socialist society we're adopting here today. For example, there are many good purposes in the budget that should have been given more money. But we know that the budget of the Stoltenberg government was snowing together in the course of a few hectic weeks now this fall. The real turning point for the new government is the next harvest, while we get a taste in the revised budget for spring. But we're on our way! First, market liberalisation must be stopped, political governance must be reconquered, and the course must be turned left, towards a more fair, inclusive and solidarity society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e474	I noticed that the representative Vaggen Malvik didn't have much faith in the budget – and I actually forgot to see if there were anyone from the big crowd to SV who stood out in the lawn and demonstrated against the budget. I have also noticed that SV's Vice President, Audun Lysbakken, will remove the stock exchange. Parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan, wants staff to have up to 40 pst. by the votes of the general meeting. And he is then supported by Per Østvold, who is a member of the Swedish central government and who believes that the big business group must give priority to it. How will the SV Group follow up the two political developments of the party's vice-president and parliamentary leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e481	SV wants a lively debate, both in terms of ownership, business and employee rights. In particular, I would like to highlight the debate that is now coming to an end in a communication of ownership, which the Minister of Industry will present to spring, where we will be able to shed light on a wide range of areas related to business. I would also like to add that it is not such as to understand that SV is, as I said, satisfied with the budget, but I would also like to stress that we are on the road, we are on the right track, and we have taken a long step forward to reverse the development that the previous government was heading in the completely wrong direction, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e487	The representative Vaggen Malvik said instead that we still haven't got a socialist society, and I think we should be happy about that. One of the things SV has in its programme is that they want more workers-driven companies, so-called democratic companies. This was Parliamentary leader Inge Ryan out there on Friday. He said that SV would give 40 pst to employees in the companies. by the votes of the general meeting and that this can be easily implemented by a change in the Share Act. This is, of course, a central tool for getting more labour-driven enterprises, and power is transferred from owner to employee. Then we heard instead that the representative from the Workers' Party, Gunvor Eldegard, said that this was not a current labour party policy. But as far as I can see, the theme is not mentioned in the Soria Moria statement at all, and that is how you have a good opportunity to implement it. Can I get an answer from the representative Vaggen Malvik: Is this current policy to continue working with for SV in relation to workers-driven companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e498	SV wants a lively debate on the rights of workers. We're very concerned about this. I would also like to stress that SV is now part of a government cooperation, where through the Soria Moria declaration we commit ourselves to a number of issues that this government is going to implement. In addition, of course, SV will have some views for which we do not get a majority in this Chamber. It's always been like that, and I guess that's how it's going to be in the future. This means that there are proposals – good ideas – that we have, which are not necessarily going to end up in concrete policies during this four-year period. But I want to remind you that this government has the ambition to sit beyond this four-year period. We also want an election result in 2009 which, for the SV, will mean that we are getting more influence, more excitement – and thus perhaps more impact on our views.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e507	For the Christian People's Party, it is crucial that business has a good framework and that this should give optimism, growth and development. SV is a party that has a tradition of political integrity and a strong spine. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the party does not follow up the clear election promise to increase the depreciation rate for machinery and equipment, from 20 pst. until 25 pst. The question is then whether the representative Vaggen Malvik can explain this to me. There was one more thing. It is a clear statement from the parliamentary leader in SV – who was also confirmed by the fiscal spokesman later in the day – that it is an objective to add 40 pst. by the voice of the general meeting. My question will then be: Does SV mean that reducing the impact of the owners on the company itself will stimulate investment and innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e516	It is the SV’s view that increasing the influence of workers will stimulate investment and innovation. In the enterprises of the future, the principal capital will lie in the head of the employees and in the power of thought they possess. Giving employees greater influence in the company is a positive tool for Norwegian business. With regard to the first question asked by the representative Sørfonn, about depreciation rates for machines and equipment, I would like to show that – as I said in my post – we are on the way, but we are not in target. This means that, in our opinion, there are many good purposes that have either not been adequately allocated in this budget or that the bad measures may not have been reduced as they should have been. But the course is right. The overall objectives are there. We're on our way. This budget is different from that of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e528	The Norwegian economy is good. Never before have more people been in work, and never have there been so many new businesses. The co-operation administration turned pessimism in business into optimism. It has again given creativity and willingness to investment and innovation. It is important that industrial policy takes care of today's enterprises and that one facilitates development and innovation. Many of the products and services that today finance our well-being were not found a few years ago. And many of the businesses we're going to live on in the future are still not established. The co-operation administration’s 2006 budget proposal has a good business profile. It would have given rise and development to business. As you know, this is the most important tool for ensuring the welfare and security of individuals. The Christian People's Party is committed to research and development. The Swedish Research Fund, with the Swedish Cooperation Agency, would have proposed 75 billion dollars in 2006. That's a pretty big increase – from $10 billion in 2001. We would have increased the affordability of nutrition research, innovation and simplification by approx. 650 million. kr. This would have strengthened the importance of industrial policy. The industrial right to research is designed for the further strengthening of sectors where Norway has competence and development potential. Our proposal would have significantly strengthened Innovation Norway's tool. That would have benefited many. In the Christian People's Party, we are somewhat disappointed that the Stoltenberg government is reducing important tools that are needed to continue the positive developments in business. I have to admit that I'm not entirely able to follow the logic of the red-green government's thinking, when they say that they want to stimulate business, but at the same time, the tax burden on businesses increases, or when they say that they want to stimulate research and development, but at the same time cut the Research Fund. This is not a tax debate, but it is difficult to understand that we did not receive support to increase the depreciation rates for machines and equipment from 20 pst. until 25 pst. Firstly, this is very important in view of investments in Norwegian enterprises. Secondly, SV in the election campaign – which I also had in mind in the rowing wheel – was crystal clear that this was about the only treasure they could support. The government's plan in this field costs Norwegian companies NOK 1.5 to 1.6 billion. The Christian People's Party wants to meet new challenges in the agricultural industry in an offensive way. We need measures that can provide both optimism and confidence in the future. Creativity and innovation must be stimulated, while ensuring the basis for traditional and dependent agriculture. It is necessary to provide for good arrangements for generational change and for other acquisitions of agricultural property. We need a living agriculture throughout the country. A living agriculture is the cornerstone of living settlements. In addition, there are many good and safe jobs in the wake of the agricultural industry itself. In the Soria Moria Declaration there are many fine program formulations and good goals. Airy desires, though, are not enough. The influence of the authorities is primarily the result of budgetary decisions and the setting of other framework conditions. In the budget of the Stoltenberg government, it may at times be difficult to see the correlation between life and learning. In a comment to the Government's budget, the farmers state that, in spite of some increase in the agricultural deduction, what is agreed is a significant increase in the tax on agriculture. The bonding layer points to several aspects here, including: the property value – on agricultural properties – which will be increased by 25 pst. This will increase the cost of nutrition by between 50 and 100 million. kr. I have already mentioned the depreciation rates of machines and equipment, which also frame the agricultural industry. The annual fee for tractors is increased by 30 million. kr. I actually share the concern of the Farmer and wonder that the lift that was promised in Soria Moria was nothing of. On the contrary, the new government course means a tax tightening for agriculture. The budget currently adopted means, in practice, a not insignificant deterioration in the agricultural framework. It's a course that goes contrary to what the Christian People's Party wants. The co-operation administration provided a good and offensive budget for the further development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The basis for profitability throughout the industry is well suited to the policy that has been pursued over the last few years. Mr Stoltenberg II has made few changes to his draft budget for the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast. That's good! It is also good that the National Institute of Nutrition and Meal Research, NIFES, in Bergen has received an increase of 3 million. kr in relation to 2005. They are a long way to go when it comes to researching not least for breath in seafood. Safe seafood is important. Norway is one of the world's largest countries in the field of marine food research. This is particularly important in the foreign market. Seafood is one of our most important and largest exports. In the Christian People's Party we believe that it is so important for the work being done in the National Institute of Nutrition and Marine Research that we propose an additional 5 million. kr for the purpose. With our scheme, NIVES would actually have an increase of 8 million. kr. Resource control is important for sustaining a viable fish. There are several factors that make up the control of fish withdrawals in our waters. The cooperation management was overfishing in focus. Strengthening the Coast Guard, increasing monitoring and control resources and focusing more on the international negotiations on overfishing have been measures to control both overfishing and illegal activities in the sea. In addition, the Christian People's Party supports the proposed increase of 15 million. kr to increase resource control. Fishing has been subject to major changes in recent years. The overarching objective has been to facilitate profitability in the industry. A fishing and aquaculture industry that makes money is a good one, not just for the businesses, for them to add and for the coastal community, but actually for the whole of the big community. An important tool in the fisheries policy has been the structural quota arrangements. The pause of thought, with a sudden stop, for which the Minister for Fisheries has agreed when it comes to the implementation of this scheme, has created considerable uncertainty and uncertainty. Although the government here has partly listened to the nutrition and tried to relieve pain, the stoppage has nevertheless created unnecessary anxiety and insecurity in an industry that so sorely needs stability and care. Norwegian business is very dependent on good export conditions. One of the worst things that can happen is that we get one too strong Norwegian kroner. Financial policy is therefore an important part of the authority’s enterprise policy — or of the content of the toolbox, which is the new form of expression now. In the Christian People's Party, we will do what we can to ensure that the healthy governance of the Norwegian economy continues, and that the instruments and framework conditions for Norwegian industry are maintained at a powerful and functional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e576	I noticed that earlier today’s representative Sørfonn in a line change with the committee leader, Lars Peder Breck, expressed a considerable dissatisfaction with Norwegian agricultural policy. We got a depression of this dissatisfaction in his posts now, and I understand that since the changes in the agricultural budget in relation to the Bondevik government budget are 5 million, respectively. kr for avian influenza and 10 mill. kr for the care of the jungle, it may not be possible these conditions with which Sørfonn is dissatisfied. Then the depreciation rules and the tractor charge remain. Since the Government has also made no changes to the depreciation rules for machinery, it must therefore be the tractor charge that is the major appeal point against Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e581	I understand that the representative of a government party needs to devalue the estimate made against the agricultural industry, but the best source is actually agriculture itself, when they say that only the valuation represents between 50 and 100 million. kr. In addition, depreciation rules and a number of other measures come, so there is a clear signal from the industry itself that they are concerned about what the new course entails. As if it weren't enough, we're very upright that in all the agricultural decisions that we had at the time our party was in government, there was agreement on the stated. There is no way to tell when the queryer's party was placed in government offices. And we're excited about how development will become part of the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e593	The most striking thing about the Christian People's Party in this setting is that they are consistent with their old government comrade Right. I understand that the Christian People's Party defends the government of Bondevik's swan song, but I recommend better music and cleaner tones at the next crossroads. For example, I would have thought that increased ecologisation of Norwegian agriculture was something Christian People's Party could support – a target of 15 pst. by 2015. Will the Christian People's Party at the next crossroads separate itself from the Right and support a plan to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e599	It should not come as a surprise that the Christian People's Party is in the hands of the Right and Left when it comes to the budget that our government provided. We were actually some about that budget, and we thought it was a good and nutrition budget. So to the question of increased ecologization. That's a very important question. I can't come up with any software formulations right now, but there are two challenges in this. One is the ecologization of agriculture, and the other is the translation of organic agricultural products, to which there is a not insignificant problem. The answer to the question raised by the representative here, we will come back on a broad basis at later times.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e606	The representative Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn pointed out in his speech that the fishing industry has undergone major changes. The industry has gone well, it's profitable, and there has been a positive development. I agree, and that's very good. He also pointed out that there has been a sudden stoppage in structural policy and called for stability and predictability. I want to point out that the party leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Høybräten, said in the election campaign in Troms that he disagreed with the privatisation of rights, and expressed his disagreement in the structural policy of which his own government was part. I would like to ask the representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn how the Christian People's Party is today looking at the issue of the privatisation of fishing rights, and whether there should be eternal rights in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e613	The question involves several approaches, and what is important is that a new government does not restart as if nothing had happened before. What's the main problem, and which I tried to show both in my line and in my post, is that there's been a lot of things. We know that the structure quota system wasn't uncontroversial, but what happened was that a good deal of intrusion was in the process of aligning itself after this. Some of them had come so far that they had signed contracts, they took it into consideration. But others who have not come this far will have significant problems in connection with this. That's the main problem we're facing. We need to ensure stability and long-term framework conditions, so that an industry that is so important to us does not have to go back to the beginning every four years – that means no stability, that means no foresight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e621	That Norway is going to have an up-and-coming business in all parts of the country, I believe there is a full deal in this hall. The change of government has shown that there are considerable differences between the parties on how to act as politicians in order to have a thriving business that can both secure the economy of the country and provide large employment and jobs both in the districts and in the cities. The difference may be more apparent in the fisheries policy, where the government has made a complete turnaround, but we also see sharp differences between the bourgeois government and the socialist government in general industrial policy. The strange thing is that in agricultural policy, in which the Central Party warned the revolution if they came to power, it has been completely silenced. The Minister of Agriculture is talking about the new family farming, but so far no one has ever seen what this is going to mean in practice – and has not agriculture always our family drive? Everything that was so disastrous during the last WTO negotiations has now, together with a little more, been feasible and necessary international agricultural policy. Business policy was one of the most important issues in the election campaign we've put behind us. Rarely have promises been followed by less action than we have now seen. SV traveled country and beach around in the election campaign and told them that they had the best business policy, including: because they would increase the depreciation rate to 25 pst. Two months later it was not necessary because of the economic situation, according to SV leader Kristin Halvorsen. Do you think what kind of cyclical fluctuations the Minister for Finance has seen in the last few months that no one else has had? The left leads a targeted policy towards small businesses and entrepreneurs. It also produced results in the previous period with record Nordics working, and record number of new businesses. More than 50,000 companies started up. Our proposals to increase the depreciation rates for machines and to introduce ease in the employer’s fee in family businesses are a continuation of the policy that has produced results. It is therefore sad that the Government does not follow up on this. Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen admits to TV 2 that yes, in many ways we can say that we are removing tools from the toolbox, but at the same time we have retained some of the increase in the previous government suggested. I hope that other people than the nutrition minister will also look at this afterwards, and do something about it. In particular, the Left sees it as important that we again show a clear commitment to research and innovation. It is not good that the Research and Innovation Fund will be reduced by DKK 25 billion in relation to the Bondevik government’s budget, as well as cut in Innovation Norway – and perhaps especially cut in mission research, which industry itself can manage – further cut in space research, which provides many exciting and forward-looking jobs in Norway, and in research within maritime and marine nutrition. If Norway is to claim itself in the future, we need to conduct research that can create new technology, for all the time to sit in the leadership of development before the branches we're good at. In this context, the Left is largely astonished by the Progress Party. The budget advice on page 12 states that the Progress Party believes that ‘it is necessary to change one of the main principles of industrial policy from business neutrality to targeted investment’ — at the same time, the Progress Party has always insisted that there should be no taxes and that owners and businesses should manage themselves. At the same time, I would like to point out that when the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right propose offensive bets on one of the fields referred to by the Progress Party, simply marine nourishment, they will not be involved. When action is taken, they do not follow what they have said. For me this doesn't hang in a bunch. The progress party refers to Finland and Nokia – the popular history of sunshine there. But that was exactly what Finland was investing in: research, research and research again — and just the tax money that the state had collected. The big organizations before fishing did the trick of being able to figure out how the fleet had to be structured in order to provide a safe, profitable industry, which also took into account the limited resources we have to capture. This was a complete uproar in the Bondevik administration. Structures were made to fewer, but safer and more efficient boats for fishermen, and the whole industry experienced great optimism. Both the fishing boat owners and the banks believed that new investments could be defended financially. Boats were condemned, the best of the old vessels were modernized, and new boats were contracted – just as it should be in a modern industry in development. But then the government shift came, and everything that was not done then was stopped – just enough with a small postponement for those who were already in the process. And then the ideas about regional quotas are lurking. The quota system that is announced, I would call it a regionalization light. After the case has been settled by the Director of Fisheries to the Board of Regulators, it is the largest vessels to issue quotas to the district quota system. And we can expect a redistribution, not only between large and small, but also between parts of the country. As a result, when it comes to fleet quotas, several old boats in the fishing industry are now being taken into account, which goes beyond both the safety of fishermen and the profitability of fleets. The new government has created an insecurity that will bring the bet together if nothing else happens soon. If the fisherman does not turn the lights off completely when the Quick Tile View passes, he has begun to blink with the lights. The ongoing stop in the structure will indirectly give the industry much worse framework conditions. The left wants an active and living agriculture throughout the country. The Bondevik government, with the Minister of Agriculture at the head, stuck its finger in the ground and saw that Norwegian agriculture had to have a conversion and renewal, if not all agriculture would be satisfied from all international experience. Insulation, as we know, is not possible if we are also going to take into account the other industries that Norway relies on. So it was added to an innovation in agriculture, so that the smallest gardeners could also survive with reintroductions and new nutrients that the garden and those working there have as a starting point. The price allocation to the Golden bypass, which has made it possible to generate profitability by bringing niche producers together and creating a brand new and interesting tourist and surrounding tourism offer, shows that there is something happening in Norwegian agriculture. As of today, there are more than 20 000 annual works in new industries in the garden, such as green care, travel, bioenergy, etc. Together, the focus on the natural landscape has triggered new jobs in the industry. This has been important to sustain the construction and employment of the guards in the districts. Here's a great potential for those who manage to take advantage of what's in modern man's needs for what's real, for proximity to animals and for exciting, safe food. At the same time, arrangements were put in place to ensure medium-sized and large-scale curtains by stimulating efficiency and co-operation. After the election campaign, with the Center Party at the head when it comes to agriculture, we got the impression that this was only trifling, without meaning to Norwegian agriculture. And with the government change, we therefore expect a shift, a marked shift, in Norwegian agricultural policy. We haven't seen that. We chose to interpret it so that the trail of the Bondevik government was in, was a good track for Norwegian agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture has announced a whole new agricultural policy, but so far he has given us a chapter list of reprisals from the old government. And then we've heard about a new chapter called Family Agriculture, which we're not sure if the Government itself knows what to hold. The Minister of Agriculture is also pleased that the investment in bioenergy is news from the Government. But this was actually one of the Bondevik government's pre-agricultural investment areas. The Minister of Agriculture, Terje Riis-Johansen, called for support for agricultural policy in this House. At least the left will signal that we are, of course, supporting a policy that we have been involved in. So if that policy continues, the Minister of Agriculture has full support from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e654	The representative Gerde was in a lot of areas that have to do with the development of nutrition, but he slipped over the things that have to do with reindeer, so I could think of challenging her a little bit about it. There are some plural comments in the budget to which the Left has not joined in any way, nor have they written their own comments. When it comes to the former Minister of Agriculture and to the excellence given by the representative of Girde, he made some steps that were absolutely necessary in relation to the conversion into reindeer. So my question is, why hasn't the Left joined the plural comments that have given some sharp leads? Or have they simply forgotten it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e663	I must admit that the representative hit me at a weak point. Purgatory is not exactly what we do most on the moor coast. When we haven't joined this comment, it's because we think it's been shown so much optimism or else when it comes to reindeer. Of course, it is unlikely that together and those who are reindeer-run should have an industry for which it should be based and which should also develop to create jobs there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e670	The question that I recently asked the representative of Sørfonn, it is also natural to address the representative of the Left in the Trade Committee. The Soria Moria Declaration represents a step forward in a development that is in any case pressing forward, namely the increased ecologisation of Norwegian agriculture. The target of 15 pst. Organic food production and food consumption by 2015 are something for which the previous Minister of Agriculture could have had a majority at any time together with SV in the previous period – a proposal he did not promote. The Soria Moria Declaration has now been implemented by SV for this objective. And my question to the representative Girde is: Will the Left follow us?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e677	When it comes to organic farming, the left will not just follow the SV, we'll go lead, as we've done. Our problem isn't the percentages, it's the salsa apparatus. We clearly see the investment in bioenergy that we have not been able to develop the term that will convey this, and we must do that even when it comes to organic farming. So that's maybe where we have to jointly insert the noise in order to make this work. Organic farming is important!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e684	The representative, Mr. Girde, says in a way that she adheres to the agricultural policy of the current government, and I think that is quite interesting. However, she mentions that there has been a lot of commitment to bioenergy, and she supports the effort that must now be made on bioenergy. But I want to comment that I think it is a pity that bioenergy has gone so late, even under the previous government. We in Norway are lagging behind Sweden and Finland in this field. As for the representative of the Commission, I would like to ask whether this is in line with what I have read from the Left's own programme, that they are against the privatisation of fishing rights. And finally – if I am allowed – I would like to congratulate the representative Gunn Berit Gjerde, who has become a grandmother tonight, and I think that is a good end to this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e694	Yeah, there's room for the most part in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e697	The representative Lars Peder Breck charms me in lower – he should have thank you! The good is called Lavrans. The representative had two questions, as I see it. The first thing went on with bioenergy. That's the first time a bioenergy program has been started, and it was done by the previous government. I experience it so that the new government will now follow up this program, and I am pleased about that. In practical policy, we see that we need to put the sales link in place, and how it should be used. I myself have taken initiatives in More and Romesdal to make the county more active. When it comes to structuring, I showed that the largest fisheries organisations joined this, and so has the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e709	Politics is often about spending money. All politicians take part in a race to use as much as possible for the best possible good purposes, such as health and care for the elderly or police and transport. The second party struggles to enter too low a tax. This too will lead to increased use of money, because private consumption will increase. Telling us what we want to spend more money on, whether it's safe retirement or lower housing tax, is an important part of the political priority. The challenge is that we all, almost always, spend more time and get more attention when we talk about how to use more, not when we talk about how to secure income. Unfortunately, economic policy is not among the most common policy issues in the population. It shouldn't be like that, and it hasn't always been like that. Active enterprise policies must be one of the most important things we work with. It requires policy-makers to dare to be active, of course with the limitations of the international legislation that all countries must work within the framework of. Today’s legislation means a different political role than before, with less political governance and less State aid. Had the EEA agreements existed in the 1950s, many of our large, state-owned companies would never have been established. ESA had probably found a paragraph in the EU oil directive that had made it impossible to build up the Statoils and Hydro oil divisions in the 1970s. We may or may not, but the framework of industrial policy is, as I said, completely different today than before. Before we were able to grant state aid to Norwegian companies, we could provide cheap electricity, enter into loopholes in companies that failed, and we could assign assignments to Norwegian companies without schooling to foreign competitors. That time is over. But we still have tools, and it needs to be developed and used. The stronger and more open international competition, the more important it is that we use the tools we have. That is why we must have a good interaction between the market and the public, between the companies and the state. We need to see the possibilities and be creative. The Government Party wants the authorities to take an active part in the development of nutrition and districts, together with industry and industry organisations. Business policy is about a lot. When we look at it, we can say that kindergarten policy, school and education policy, equality policy, yes, all welfare policy, are equal to industrial policy. There's a connection between creating and sharing. Countries that are good at creating will also be good at sharing. The World Economic Forum has brought together the Nordic welfare states of the best countries for business. It's not random. A safe human being is a creative human being. It may sound boring, but I have to start with the words 'order of the economy'. Not everyone understands the content of these words. A stable exchange rate, low inflation, low interest rates and defensive budgetary policies are decisive for the profitability of Norwegian businesses. Therefore, as the Government proposes, we need to strengthen both private and public research and innovation, so that we have bones to stand on even after the oil. Competence must be a driving force in the process of conversion, renewal and re-establishment. Our natural resources are and will continue to be the driving force in the creation of wealth throughout the country. Innovation Norway is an important instrument, which must have both the money and the right skills to help business when the need is at a vulnerable start-up stage. The Bondevik II government built up many of these tools. In 2006, the government strengthens the innovation of Norway by over 300 million. kr. In addition, SIVA's budget is strengthened by 30 million. kr to innovation activities. The State must take responsibility for ensuring efficient infrastructure. There must be a holistic and effective transport policy, with investment and enough to operate and maintain roads, and we must ensure broadband for all parts of the country. Furthermore, Norwegian industry must secure enough energy at a competitive price within the EEA legislation. And we have to be willing to use the gas in Norway. I am pleased that the Government is now taking up the framework conditions for the power-generating industry. Work is in progress and has a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e735	The new majority of Stortinget and the new government have, throughout the harvest, boasted that they will introduce a new industrial policy, a more active industrial policy – but it has been little concrete what the new active industrial policy will consist of and when it is to be implemented. It would be natural to use the first budget and the first time in the government to present clear visions and goals to the Storting and to the players in the business world. So far, it's very unclear what will happen and when it will happen. However, let us have one thing clear: The Storting will at any time discuss the content of a more active industrial policy with the Government. There's no time to lose. The question is whether the Government has ideas, action and implementation. That's an unanswered question. Norwegian agriculture is part of business, where there is a great need for reform. Daily we can read about how little each farmer serves, despite a very high level of support. Every year thousands of uses are abandoned, and as many leave agriculture as work. This is a natural development. When there are too many in one industry, the revenue for each one will decrease, and the need for state aid schemes will increase. While the level of aid is increasing, the dissatisfaction of those in the industry is also increasing because the high level of aid is also not high enough to provide those in the industry with a desired income and income development. It should be obvious too much more than the Progress Party that this is a raging, ragingly crazy development, and that we must have a development in agriculture that ensures good development opportunities and revenues for those who are to be left in the industry. Then it is not useful to continue with old solutions and policies. Here, new solutions and new and strong approaches are needed to bring about a new and forward-looking agricultural policy, primarily to the satisfaction of the operators in the agricultural sector. In the Soria Moria Declaration, there is nothing to suggest that the Government will pursue a new agricultural policy. No, here one should continue with the policy that makes thousands of farmers leave their profession every year and that today gives each farmer a low income. The result of this is that in this room we will continue to debate the same topic in a few years' time, without any development for the benefit of the farmer. Then we have to demand that both bureaucracy and agricultural organisations and businesses are streamlined. I have been to too many county offices, municipal offices and department offices where I have seen too many agricultural bureaucrats. We can read in the nations on Saturday, December 3, that joint purchases can save billions of dollars in mergers. Internal calculations show that joint ventures can make up to 410 million. kr a year to merge. So this does not want to be carried out by the farmers and the chairman of the Norwegian Joint Purchase. It's a wrong policy. As much as possible of the value creation must remain with the farmer. Farmers must then also take responsibility for improving the efficiency of their own organisations. In the field of agriculture, we have introduced a socialist and plan-based economic area with enough bureaucracy. In any case, SV has been introduced into its socialist society. The ongoing WTO negotiations have been the subject of several issues in Stortingen this autumn. From Norwegian point of view, our agricultural interests have been a central theme, despite the fact that Norway has many other offensive interests. The government has stated that it has no mandate to abolish Norwegian agriculture, in order to defend the importance of agricultural interests in the public debate. No, no one wants to end Norwegian agriculture, but we have to adapt. If a WTO agreement is put in place, there will be major changes in Norwegian agriculture. What's regrettable about this is that there's a process from the outside that controls what we're going to do. We do not have the power to adapt our agricultural industry internally, so that it is equipped to face the changes that are taking place internationally. Here we cannot blame the international processes that are taking place, but we must take a critical look at our own policies and the organisation of agriculture. As a very small country, on the outskirts of the world far from the large markets, it is a prerequisite for survival even in the future that we are internationally competitive. We cannot lock ourselves in and explain ourselves away from the processes and developments that are taking place internationally. We must meet it with a clear, offensive and forward-looking policy that ensures that we are internationally competitive. We have shown that we are doing well in a number of industries, and today we have a number of companies in shipping, industry, fisheries, medicine and other industries that are of the leading manufacturers and knowledge environments in the world. In these areas, we have met the world with an offensive attitude that we should be the best in the world. We have not done that in agriculture, and that is why we have come into the situation that agriculture is now in. Now we have to turn around before we get a big call, which will contribute to greater upheavals than the Progress Party has ever addressed. In addition to having a high level of support, Norwegian agriculture is the most permeable industry in this country. Clearly, the state has so little confidence in the individual farmer that all possible aspects of agriculture need to be regulated. The Norwegian self-ownership farmer has very long traditions. Despite this, it is considered necessary to have clear rules on who should be able to purchase an agricultural property. The price of agricultural property is also state-regulated, so that few people find it appropriate to sell their properties, because the price is too low. As a result, many young people who do not have the right to own agricultural property do not enter the industry because it is impossible to obtain a property that they can own. In other industries it is that those with a desire to work, creativity, progress and willingness to bet can establish themselves and feed the industry a lot. It is regrettable that today's rules of nobility and concession help to shut down many who want to invest in agriculture, out of the industry. Also those who want to bet on real economies of scale and make cooperation more efficient, are stopped by a roof on how many animals they can have. That someone wants to produce a lot is perceived as a threat to the small and agricultural bureaucrats. Could it be because it's easier to control many small and not the big because they're beginning to have their own opinions about how evolution is going to be? I'm just asking. It is also regrettable that those who are small and want to bet on niches in the local market are stopped by bureaucracy and outdated legislation. Home slaughter is a good example of this. Many farmers want to take more control of the value chain even by selling their products directly to the customer and with this also get more revenue. Serving self-produced food in connection with farm tourism or to local food establishments is an area that needs to be developed better and that can provide farmers with significant value creation. Of course, necessary hygiene and food safety requirements must be met, but we must not become so rigid in the interpretation of legislation that farmers in our competitor countries, especially the EU, are allowed to develop their nutrition under completely different conditions than the Norwegian farmer who wants to think forward-looking. On many journeys in EU countries to look precisely at farm tourism, I have seen the market it represents, and what legislation these farmers operate under. We need to increase consumer perspective in Norwegian agricultural policy. Norwegian agriculture is for us consumers and will provide us with safe food, but also a variety of food products. Norway should be in front of the international community. We probably have safe food, but they certainly do have it in our neighboring country too. However, the variety could have been better here at home. There is little selection in Norwegian meat dishes, in the cheese counter and elsewhere where Norwegian agricultural products are presented. This looks like the North when they're traveling abroad. Monopol trends and a low focus on product development are responsible for this. There have been developments in recent years, but this is because agricultural cooperation has gained competition from new and more innovative actors. Monopol trends and attempts at market power in Norwegian agriculture must cease. This is one of the most important tasks of the new Minister of Agriculture. We have become a leading country in many industries by having knowledge, by being innovative, by taking advantage of the advantages we have, and by drying up. There is no reason why we should not be able to do this even within agriculture by finding areas where we are best. Much of what I have mentioned here is supported by the analysis company Econ in a 2004 report on legislation and innovation in agriculture. The report has been prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This report should be mandatory for bed electrics for the new Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e769	Norway has a good starting point with high value creation. We have low and declining unemployment, we have a high professional frequency, and we have a highly educated workforce compared to many other countries. By the end of November, Aetat has registered 72 300 total unemployed persons, corresponding to 3.0 pst. by the labour force. Compared to last year's November, this is a fall of 11,300 people. It's important that people have a job to do. It gives self-respect, it gives social contact, and it shows that society needs you. Therefore, work in itself is important. However, high value creation today does not mean that we are guaranteed high value creation in the future. The government announced in the Soria Moria Declaration a new policy course for industrial policy in Norway. Next year's budget is a first step on this path. Within the framework of a responsible budgetary policy, I think it is difficult to present a more comprehensive solution than the one we have presented in this budget. Stable framework conditions and a responsible economic policy are essential for business. Only when these requirements are met can we justify the increased use of resources for the active business policy. Overall, we are proposing to increase the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget by 70 million. Compared to the proposal for Bondevik II. Thus, the framework for active industrial policy is expanded by a total of 720 million. Compared to the 2005 balanced budget. The government will, among other things, implement several actions in the areas of profiling, internationalisation and innovation. Innovation is an important factor in economic growth. Renewal is still necessary in order for our companies to assert themselves in a tough international competition. Our budget contains 307 million. kr in the increased framework for Innovation Norway. Within this framework, it's set at 72.5 million. kr for a travel life effort. Research is another field of activity for this government. The budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is 170 million. the increased framework for the Norwegian Research Council. The framework for nutrient research is increasing by about 400 million. kr compared to 2005 when we see several departments together. So the budget shows a clear commitment in this area. Innovation networks and entrepreneurship are another important area. We have therefore strengthened the SIVA budget by 30 million. kr for innovation activities, and we have allocated 10 million. kr to Young Entrepreneurship. In order to ensure Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers, the Government wishes to extend the current net pay regime from 1 July 2006. Overall, the proposal significantly strengthens the conditions for seafarers on board competitive ships in NOR. At the same time, Norwegian shipping companies are getting more favourable framework conditions. The draft budget is 1225 million. NOK 165 million. kr more than the current allocation for the scheme. The Government will also focus specifically on development and innovation in the maritime industry. The MARUT initiative is suitable as a platform for this work. The aim is to build a maritime industry that can claim internationally even in the future. It requires increased efforts on research and innovation and good cooperation between the country and industry. Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council will be key players in the MARUT project. This budget marks a new start for Norway and is a first step on the road towards a new political course. The fact that things are going well today is no guarantee that tomorrow will be fine. This means that we need to focus on research and innovation. The government does. We propose to increase the Ministry of Industry and Trade's framework by a total of 720 million. kr. This shows that the Government wants to pursue an active enterprise policy. Only through an active policy can we ensure that we make the best use of resources for society. I am sure that through close and good cooperation with all the social partners, we will provide the basis for even higher value creation in the coming years. Only by focusing on increased value creation and the efficient use of the country's resources can we create space for the welfare society we all want, and we are all proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e800	I could not avoid noticing that the Council of State referred to unemployment as low now, while three months ago it was high. There must have been a revolution that has crossed my mind. We have heard a lot about the so-called toolbox to be filled after the new government joined. The government is thus trying to create a picture of how we are now getting new tools to create an active industrial policy. It is therefore surprising that the government budget submitted makes the most mistakes in promoting innovation, research and investment in its own enterprise. Does not the Council of State think that a sharp reduction in taxes on wealth, a higher depreciation rate for investments, improved access to cheap power and strong investment on better roads would have led to a sharp reduction in the need for new tools in the toolbox? Why would the government not use any of the existing management tools to create investment and safe Norwegian jobs instead of looking for new tools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e809	As I made clear in my first post, this is the beginning of a new course for a more active business policy. In fact, it was a former Right-State Council that stated that the toolbox was empty. The then opposition in Stortinget did not have to be established. So the fact that we're now following up on filling this empty toolbox with new tools is a strength for business. So let's do that in a bunch of ways. Among other things, we are doing so through a formidable strengthening of the appropriations for innovation, research and innovation. Only for Innovation Norway is the increase in the allocation formidable. We remind you that the level of funding granted by the Stoltenberg I Government to Innovation Norway totaled 926 million. kr. The appropriations for the 2005 budget were 804 million. kr. Only there's a formidable decline in the previous ageing period, which we're now trying to correct – and we're doing it in a great way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e814	I'm going to admit that I'm a little surprised when I hear the Council of State talk about a new and active industrial policy and about a strengthening. The reality is that, compared with the last draft budget presented, i.e. for 2006, by Bondevik II, the government and the new government — in addition to one and a half billion DKK of depreciation rules — are weakening nutrition research and development by at least 100 million. kr. Then you ask, is the Council of State comfortable with this? How can it be that the new government is going out and claiming that they are pursuing a new and more active policy, when they have the same overall framework – because we have the same overall framework in the budget – and at the same time these important instruments of industrial policy are weakening? It might be interesting to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e821	It should probably not be me who made the representative, Mr Løvik, aware that the proposal of the Bondevik II Government is a proposal that was never adopted in the Grand Duchy, and which had great, clear challenges in itself if a majority of this budget was to be negotiated here in the Grand Duchy. The budgets that are interesting to compare and that are comparable are what the previous government adopted for 2005 and what is now actually being adopted for 2006. The result is that there is a formidable increase in research, innovation and innovation for 2006 in the budget that is adopted at this level after all the solar panels, compared to what was actually adopted in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e829	On several occasions, the Minister of Economic Affairs has called for a new acquisition law. When the old acquisition law was dissolved in 2002, she had not created or saved a single job, but she had given the legal profession revenues of between 100 and 200 million. kr. It's a kind of employment, but I'm not sure it's the kind of employment we think about here. I have a couple of questions for the Council of State. First, to get to grips with how he thinks: Would the new acquisition law that the Minister of Industry sees for himself, for example. could have prevented the exodus of Freia in its time? Secondly, how does the Minister of Industry believe that a strict acquisition law will affect access to capital, including foreign capital, to investment in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e838	The government, through the political platform that was worked out on Soria Moria, has said that we will introduce a new and strengthened acquisition law. This work is well under way. We have already conducted discussions with ESA to identify potential challenges related to such legislation. But it is important for me to stress that the law aims not to control ownership, but to ensure that profitable and good jobs are not abandoned. Then it might be the first concept we have to do something with. What happened to the previous acquisition law was that it gave many messages. But what is important to bring with it is that a law also has a preventive character. Then it's important to have a law that doesn't give business more stress. In the eight-year period that the previous law worked, it gave 2,000 messages. The new Competition Act has issued 500 notifications in one year. This means that we need to look at all the factors that contribute to increasing costs for business, including in the case of a new, strengthened acquisition law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e847	I just have to congratulate myself on the work of a law of acquisition. It's not going to work this time either, and it's just going to scare business away from Norway. However, the Council of State is right in saying that Norway has a good starting point. This government had a huge point of departure when seven weeks ago it took up the new course of business policy. And what has happened? Everything changes to the worse. These relate to property taxes, unpaid labour input in the TaxFUNN scheme, the stock discount, the protection rate, the salary deduction for individual enterprises, depreciation rates for machinery, etc., relief from inheritance tax, family-owned enterprises and cutbacks in industrial research. Yes, it was so wrong that even the government party's own head of the nutrition committee had to go into today's business and complain about the total impact of all this on the small businesses and family-run businesses. In addition to these actual changes, all the dangerous signals from the government parties are that they want to socialize the governance spaces. Uncertainty about tax reform is created, etc. My question is simply: does Odd Eriksen find it difficult to defend the business of the government college?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e858	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Sponheim. I think with the experience the representative has, he knows that I have an enchanting job. He can be quite sure that I will do as best I can. I have a very good starting point. I have a great government college that pulls in one direction, and I'm very happy for that. Nutritional research effort is increased by a total of 400 million. kr in relation to the 2005 level. It's a formidable reinforcement, and it offers opportunities. I am quite sure that this government will be able, in a close, good and focused dialogue with the business community, to get a lot of good business out of all the individual elements associated with the business life initiative that this government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e867	Recent opinions from a number of more or less central SV representatives have been the theme of previous line changes today. Workers-driven enterprises and the closure of the stock exchange are key to this. We can't read in the Soria Moria statement that there's something about this. I think most people also understand that this is a matter that SV will never get through to. But what kind of signals does this send to the investor community? What kind of signals does this send to foreign investors, who live in a country with an international economy, depend entirely on? What kind of signals does this send out to business?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e872	The government is well in the process of working on a ownership message and aims to present it to the Stortinget for treatment in the spring session – aimed at. I've also noticed the line changes about different recordings that have come from SV, and I see it as positive with diversity, also diversity in opinions. The different recordings I see as extremely positive, and in the work on a new ownership message, all recordings will be processed. The recordings that have been made, I will neither depreciate nor foreshadow the processing of, but they will be taken into a serious assessment when we write the ownership message. We know that all the recordings are positive challenges that we have to deal with, which I'm sure we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e879	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e882	As the Minister of Industry has just said, we have received a new government and a new course in business policy. But the new course is not as promised in the election campaign, where the message was about investing in jobs and traditional business policy tools. On the contrary, the new course is a course that affects jobs and weakens competitiveness. Short-term needs to add to public budgets are aged by reducing the potential of enterprises to create employment, value creation and welfare production in the future. Good results in the field of business were achieved by the Co-operation Board. The companies are going down. The difficult time from the beginning of the previous ageing period is almost forgotten. Now the interest rate is record low, the dollar is living with, salary growth is under control, and taxes are reduced. This policy is a foundation for the upturn in business, with 55 000 new enterprises since 2001, growth in earnings and turnover, fewer bankruptcies, increased employment and lower unemployment. The Stoltenberg II government starts about the way the previous Stoltenberg government ended. The total amount of taxes and charges is increased by DKK 11 billion compared to the proposals of the Cooperative Government. No other industrial policy measure can replace such a deterioration in competitiveness. This increases the pressure on interest rates, which the Government itself confirms in its answers to question No. 81 from the Right of 11 November. The country is in a boom. The economy warns against giving gas in budgetary policy. However, the government does so, but at the same time cuts in traditional industrial policy tools, in research and innovation, in Innovation Norway, in SIVA and in space research in relation to the proposals of the Cooperative Government. I think it's pretty amazing that the new Minister of Industry boasts of new tools when he's cut almost 100 million. kr in the proposal which was on the table of the previous government, and now is 167 million. kr lower in focus on Innovation Norway and traditional industrial policy than what the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left do. It is particularly unfortunate for business that the tax reform now leads to increased taxation of equity in enterprises. The basis for Norwegian ownership is weakened when taxes on wealth are increased at the same time as taxes on dividends are introduced. While other countries remove the wealth tax to increase value creation, Norway is moving in the opposite direction. It is also a breach of promises when the depreciation rates for machinery are cut in line with the proposals of the Cooperative Government, when the TaxFUNN scheme deteriorates, and when, however, the chocolate levy is not removed. This means lower activity and lower employment in Norwegian industry. In total, the Government has significantly worsened the framework conditions for Norwegian companies in a few weeks, and the Soria Moria declaration still leaves a large billion promises to be paid by some. The Economic and Social Committee is also responsible for competition policy. There were few budgetary changes in this area. On the other hand, the Government has given a number of unfortunate signals and has taken several suspicious decisions in this area. The Government Declaration hardly mentions competition. However, the ambitions to exclude major parts of the public sector for competitive tendering are clear. The government will raise the threshold for the use of tenders against the minimum EU standards. This means that the threshold of SEK 500000, set in September of this year after careful consultation and evaluation, will be raised to SEK 1.8 million. kr. There will be no competition in large parts of municipal procurement. Small tenders do not only increase costs and reduce costs for enterprises. It also increases the risk of camaraderie and corruption. I record that the government has now become more nuanced on this issue. The topic is now being discussed. However, I note that the government parties in the setting categorically state that the tender thresholds should be raised to the EU level. The Minister of Renewal was also quick to cut off the Competition Authority. The conversion of several supervisory recommendations and decisions is very unfortunate. I record that the reason for adding increased costs to the power customers by giving Statkraft a more dominant position is mildly said very woolly. The government has also agreed to a merger in the oil industry to which the supervision refused. The government has decided to protect the postal letter monopoly and to scrap the plans for competition for railway maintenance. It is also part of the history of this field that the red-green parties voted against the whole of the new competition law in the previous magnificence period. Bad competition policy is to take from the weak and give to the rich. Market benefits are only the largest companies that can achieve. In such cases, large capital and well-organised trade unions are fighting against consumers and small businesses. The cooperative government gave the people competition in aviation and the book industry. We gave the Competition Authority increased resources, increased independence and increased competition law. The government, on the other hand, provides consumers with higher electricity prices and signals about a new practice that we currently only see the contours of. There are guaranteed to be more such issues, both on the food side and in other new areas. I have serious problems understanding the fundamental analysis behind the new course in the field of competition. This is an area that the Right will follow very closely in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e905	The epidemics in the Barents Sea and in the protection zone around Svalbard this autumn show how important it is to gain an understanding of sensible resource management in the northern regions. Overfishing and regular environmental crime are now a threat to important fish stocks. I am therefore pleased that the fisheries authorities and the Coast Guard are now getting the funds to escalate and tighten up resource control, so that foreign fishermen seeking short-term and illegal gains really experience the risk of being caught. Equally important is to win respect for the Norwegian administrative regime abroad. It is with considerable concern that I record that some countries actually raise doubts about our access to enforce the administrative regime in the fishing protection zone around Svalbard. In other words, we have a job to do with the fisheries authorities, shipowners and opinion in countries with which we normally cooperate. The new government will renew Norwegian fisheries policy. It is necessary after years of market ideology and commercialisation of fish resources. The government has made it clear that it does not want further privatisation of fishing resources. The first step on the road is the structural break and a review of the structural arrangements. Laws and regulations shall ensure the management and control of the resources and their distribution by the Community. Fisheries and aquaculture shall contribute to activity, value creation and industrial development along the coast. In this way, the availability of resources throughout the year — and from year to year — needs to be ensured for industry. This means that the extraction of fishery resources and the production of aquaculture industry must be kept within the framework of the environment and that the market is capable of decreasing, and we must have the capacity to develop new markets. This means that fisheries and aquaculture policy is shifting directly into trade policy. We have all seen the impact of the anti-dumping measures on Norwegian salmon exports to the United States and similar measures and threats from the EU, stressing the importance that Norwegian authorities are constantly trying to improve market access for Norwegian fish and open new markets. It is enough to mention the importance that the Eastern European market has gradually gained for Norwegian aquaculture products. The marine industry itself believes that the production potential of Norwegian farmed fish is tenfold that currently produced, provided that we have an international trade regime for fish that creates increased export opportunities. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian authorities in the current WTO negotiations are not only concerned with agriculture, but also focus on fish and fish products, which in itself may be demanding because Norway initially has different interests in these two areas. The development of our maritime industries has and will have a major impact on both residence and employment here in the country. A large part of the 75 000 workers, who pick up their daily bread from these industries, are in Coast Norway. That should still be the case. It's with satisfaction, for example. notes that Norwegian shipyards have full order books with order servers of the order size of DKK 21 billion and that the optimism in the shipping industry is greater than in the long term. I believe that the net pay scheme has contributed to this, and I am not embarrassed to mention that the Company Color Line has launched investment plans for a total of 7 billion kroner in a completely new holiday concept that will revolutionise the ferry traffic between Norway and abroad, after the Government made it known that it would extend and extend the net pay scheme. The maritime industries operate in an international market. They depend on good and stable framework conditions. They depend on a high level of competence. Our ambition is therefore that Norway should be the world leader in maritime research — nothing less. This is why maritime research and development is also being pursued in the 2006 budget. At the same time, the Government is committed to improving the recruitment of the maritime industries and increasing the competence of those already employed in the industries. With some exceptions, and with the permanent exception of the Progress Party, the budgetary position of the Economic and Social Committee does not show the complete disagreement. However, in two important areas of major importance, the differences are evident, namely in the perspective of state ownership and competition policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e931	A journey through Norway is a journey through the direct and indirect importance of agriculture for the design of our country. Through open and well-kept landscapes, through culture and traditions, through employment and value creation, we see the additional effects of modern and forward-looking food production in Norway. The government has high ambitions to further develop this agriculture, not least because agriculture and the food industry have a total employment of over 100,000 mills and a production value of well over DKK 100 billion. It has a utility structure and a geographical spread that makes the industry a supporter of viable and attractive rural communities around the country. I will bring forward four priority areas for the Government: Firstly, it is absolutely essential that the current WTO negotiations result in an agreement that we can live with and that ensures a space for action in agricultural policy that allows active agriculture throughout the country. I note that the Committee stresses the need for the Government to actively contribute to the maximisation of the space for action. We're going to do that. At the Hong Kong Ministerial Meeting next week, the Government will do everything possible to safeguard these interests. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre will come back with his own statement on the status of the current WTO negotiations on Friday. Secondly, we want to give priority to family farming. The backbone of Norwegian agriculture consists of what lies between niche production for specialised markets and the really large producers. The development of family farming on the basis of each farm’s production basis is the best guarantee of a varied use structure in the future. Thirdly, the Government will stimulate economic development. Bioenergy is essentially going to be here. This is both good rural policy and good environmental policy. Bioenergy has the potential for many decentralised jobs, and it will provide environmentally friendly solutions in the field of energy. Other forest and land resources also represent a high potential for value creation in the districts. There is a worrying low level of activity in forestry today, both in the field of logging and in the field of forestry. The government will stimulate activity by increasing the resources for food and environmental measures in forestry, providing support for forest planting and developing a separate strategy for increased harvesting. Fourthly, we need to ensure that farmers have income development and social conditions in line with other groups. It is a prerequisite for creating optimism and confidence in the future in the industry. It is important to actively use the agricultural agreement and its instruments to ensure a varied agricultural structure around the country. A key element of the Government's food policy is that food is safe and felt safe to eat. It requires a coherent quality strategy from the ground to the table. Many recent issues have shown the need to have effective food surveillance that consumers trust. The government will have a viable reintroduction industry within the framework provided by the resource base. We must lay down framework conditions to ensure that operations are carried out on the premises of the environment. The government will give priority to the work on new reindeer law. It shall facilitate the ecological, economic and cultural sustainability of reindeer management. It is important that the law is developed into a tool that allows for an effective follow-up of the Riksrevision assessments in the report on the sustainable use of reindeer resources in Finnmark. A separate sample has assessed how the clinical veterinary watch should be organised in order to obtain the best possible watch regime based on the overall allocation for that purpose. The committee will be holding its position on 8 December, this week. I assume that the election will come with recordings for improvements in the watch regime, and I will study the setting carefully. In this context, I will base the Committee's wish to have a common well-functioning clinical watch system capable of dealing with all animal species. Today we have two different watch regimes which are very detailedly regulated in agreements with the Norwegian veterinary association. I'm in dialogue with the Veterinary Association on the further process. I will return to Stortinget with more detailed information on this matter in an appropriate manner. The establishment of Bioforsk has been a long process that is now in progress. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal for the establishment of Bioforsk as a management body with special powers from 1 January 2006. Biosciences will help to create a stronger and more powerful environment and become a producer and supplier of valuable and necessary knowledge for research into the environment and agriculture. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Committee on the good and thorough work it has done on the budget, and I note that there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on the main objectives of agricultural and food policy. Based on the government's offensive policy and the industry's solid position in District Norway, we will contribute to a positive development in the industry and the districts ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e969	In recent years, we have had a number of new private actors competing with the Agricultural Cooperation. There has been a positive grant, which has been received positively by consumers. I think of companies like Synnove Finden and the Q-Meierien. That's why there's something special when Bjarne Undheim, head of the Norwegian League, in today's business Wednesday 30 November, says the following: ‘I can’t see that the Q-Meierien have added so much positive. [[...]] I am in doubt that this has a place within a politicized agriculture." He goes on to say that the Q-Meieriene have at least been no advantage to the farmers. Is this an opinion shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e979	The aim of the Storting is that there should be real competition in the agricultural sector, including in the dairy and milk sectors. There is a basis on which I work, because I believe in general that competition is healthy. We are now in the process of consulting a proposal for a regulation relating to the milk scheme in the dairy sector, the aim of which is equal treatment and the possibility for more players to operate in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e986	The Minister of Agriculture and Food was concerned about the activity of forestry. A key prerequisite for forestry activity is the fiscal framework conditions. In this field, the Senterpartiet was very active in the election campaign and promised to remove the so-called forest tax, which was the somewhat unprecious label the party put on the tax reform effect on forestry. In government, on the other hand, the Central Party has done the opposite. The tax on dividends has been increased through lower protection rates, the tax on wealth has increased, both the rate of ownership and the value of property, the inheritance tax has increased, the tax on labour has increased, the deduction of wages for traders has been cut, the rate of depreciation has been reduced – this is particularly severe in a machine-intensive forestry industry – and even the annual tax on tractors and trucks has increased. This is a significant deterioration in the framework conditions for forestry. Does the Minister of Agriculture and Food agree that tax incentives are particularly unfair to this industry, and what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e993	This was a matter that was also debated in the spontaneous Question Time on Wednesday last week, and my answer now is the same as it was a little week ago. The changes made to taxes and to traders are initially based on the tax reform previously adopted by the Storting. So the government has an ambition to have a tax system with a focus on distribution. We have submitted that to the Storting, and it is a good tax arrangement. Then there are also some consequences for the self-employed, who are in prison. We have compensated parts of it, among others. by means of an increased deduction of agricultural earnings. It is also true that what has been mentioned about the depreciation rates is not a deterioration compared to the situation today. It is a proposal that we will not propose, but that the previous government made. So the image is significantly more complex than what was attempted here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e998	The Christian People's Party is concerned with good agricultural framework conditions. The Council of State said in its statement that the Government is concerned with good agricultural conditions. Then it's strange that the first government does is send a larger tax bill to agriculture. In terms of taxes and charges, we can't owe anyone. We decide that. Here we can give good framework conditions. The question is whether the Government will. In the first government budget, we both see increased equivalency of use, which means an increased wealth tax for a low-income group, and that we do not want to extend the depreciation rules, as proposed by the Bondevik II government. We cannot see the will for good framework conditions. So my question is, what will the government do for agriculture in the continuation of taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1005	The government's tax arrangements for the next few years, 2007 etc., will give us ample opportunity to come back to this. I must nevertheless be allowed to remind the representative Tørersdal of the Christian People's Party that one should perhaps look back a little if one is to be very clear in pointing out it one must feel that weaknesses in the manner of others are. Just to take what was done with the agricultural budget of the previous government: when it comes to reducing budget resources, we're talking about sizes above 600 million. kr gross that has been removed by means of the Christian People's Party. Changes in tax deductions were also made. In sum, we're talking about significant changes. I think you should be a little bit more careful than what you were right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1012	I hear with interest from the Minister of Agriculture when he talks about family farming. The previous government with the then Minister of Agriculture helped to strengthen family farming with greater flexibility, which in turn provided more opportunities. Several participants were given opportunities, including: in co-operation. Secondly, the distance limit within the joint operation was softened, despite relatively high resistance, among other things. from the Bondelag. As a former member of the Bondelag, perhaps the Council of State does not primarily have that part of family agriculture in mind. Will the Council of State contribute to the strengthening of the large part of family farming, which sees its future as safest in co-operation, by providing the opportunity to increase the number of participants in co-operation and, in addition, to increase the distance limit for participation in co-operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1019	I can answer that question quite briefly. I don't have any plans. today to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1024	The Council of State is currently busy negotiating WTO negotiations and possible consequences for the agricultural industry. There is no doubt that regardless of the negotiating results this year or next year, the agricultural industry will face major challenges. It has been stated from the government team that possible loss of income should be compensated for in the crown, which will be reasonably alarming in relation to other self-employed persons. What I am interested in, on the other hand, is a possible veto against a WTO outcome. Can the Council of State respond to what could be the consequences for the export interests of other Norwegian businesses if Norway uses its veto right in the negotiations and will not accept the results of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1031	There is no objective for the Government to use veto in the ongoing WTO negotiations. But it's absolutely vital that we are clear as to what the government can do. Now we are probably still quite far away from the time when a final agreement can be signed. I am absolutely convinced that the best way to make sure not to get into a situation where the discussion of veto is the big topic is to be clear now. In this way, I'm very comfortable with what's happened in the last few weeks. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, as negotiator from the Norwegian side, has been very clear in all forums where we have been, in view of the fact that there are some limits to what Norway can agree to. The consequences of being clear now are that other countries know where they have Norway, and that other countries too, in order to find solutions that are good for WTO actors, relate to the Norwegian positions, so that we can get the WTO process into port in a way that allows us to have active agriculture throughout the country, even after a possible agreement has been reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1037	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1040	A lot has happened in many of the areas of the Trade Committee since I last joined the Committee, from 1993 to 1997. At that time, well over 88 000 users applied for operating aid. Now the number is 50,800. That's a number to think about. It's not been that many years. Has the growing majority taken care of a deliberate change, or has Stortinget thought that Norwegian food production is not so important? One thing is at least certain: new requirements, requirements for control, efficiency, reporting and documentation, and little long-termity in the agricultural industry have caused many to throw in their clothes. The bureaucracy has exploded there, too. Many administrative costs give less to live on. Many swear to take over the duty to go in the spring early morning and late evening, weekend as sick. The majority, in their comments, note that the agricultural agreements are intended to provide guidance for income development and social conditions in agriculture in line with other occupational groups — this being seen in the light of the many social challenges facing agriculture. Similarly, we need to ensure that the structure of use continues to be infrequent, with opportunities for niche production, or to obtain income from industries of the same type in agriculture. Many of us think that agriculture has an important role to play today, and that it will also have a role in the future. Food production is important in the context of preparedness. Norwegian food production is important from the local point of view, is traditional with local variations, has a short transport route and is a supplier to the food industry. He gives employment effects far beyond what the individual pawns do. In addition, and perhaps most importantly, Norwegian-produced food is pure, produced according to ethical rules, disease-free, and the use of spray is minimal. If one is going to try to include the significance of travel life, our future growth industry, we have to play with the primary industries to a much greater extent than we have so far done. In the setting for the year's budget, small changes are chronic. But I feel the need to comment on a couple of them. The Food Authority's got five million. kr especially to monitor the avian influenza virus and its spread. As one of the countries in the Nordic region, we should perhaps be much more in agreement with our neighbouring countries about the ‘warning’ of avian influenza. Knowledge and mutual action should give us greater security. When a reading in Bondevik II's budget proposal about just the Food Authority, it seems somewhat incomprehensible to me. Here, continued efficiency needs to be improved and, to a far greater extent, focused on the real challenges that have been identified not least in recent times. This does not apply at least in the place of supply and salsify for fresh fish. Norway has – and should do so to a far greater extent – marketed itself as a safe country with safe food. Tourists are busy with this, we read in the newspapers by day. Similarly, the strengthening of the budget in relation to forest purposes is correct, both in terms of forest planting and in order to increase the production of biofuels. Large parts of the country are growing again of forest. One has to facilitate the production of more environmentally friendly heating if our CO2 accounting is to get a puff ahead in the right direction. Here we can house of nature, and many municipalities add up to their inhabitants to invest in newer areas for this purpose. Bioscience is another topic. The working party will ask the Council of State to be closely involved in the reorganisation as far as they can. It must lead to more efficiency and better research and professional environment and not bureaucracy. Then there's a lot of focus on the Veterinary Agreement. In the area I come from, one watch area is proposed. It's 18 miles along the main road, but there's very few gardening. Seating and wintering poses great animal challenges. But to me, it is far more important that animal welfare and respect for the farmer's work as a food producer are seen in the high ground. I think you should use the map a little bit better than the former Minister of Agriculture showed a willingness to do. And perhaps one should look at the work of supervision along with the watchkeeping system. Here you can achieve a much larger gain than today. That's at least the information we've been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1069	The Progress Party is committed to creating a good and predictable framework for Norwegian business, and then it is important to recognise that we live in a globalised world, where cross-border trade is the rule and not the exception. Norwegian industry is dependent on being able to compete under the same framework conditions as foreign companies. It is therefore sad to see that this government is moving in the opposite direction to what must be the case in order to create optimism and investment in Norwegian business, and perhaps industry in particular. In a market where currency, commodity prices and energy prices are constantly changing, predictability is important in areas that politicians can influence. It is with great concern the Progress Party looks at the emergence of strange schemes, schemes that make Norwegian industry increasingly difficult to compete in the international arena. Unfortunately, special schemes tend to cost money, and the margins between profitable and unprofitable business are decreasing. Unfortunately, when members of the government bring forward what the 20 richest people in Norway have and make tax and tax cuts to hit them, it goes beyond the thousands of business owners who are struggling to get it around. Instead of using the natural advantages we have in Norway, the Government tries to remedy the fact that they are not willing to take the necessary steps to preserve Norwegian industrial jobs. Instead of securing cheap power for industry through the development of hydropower or gas power stations, we are talking about a separate special industrial power market. Instead of providing tax reliefs to ensure profitability in industry, talk about a new acquisition law to prevent businesses from going down or moving out before they go down. Instead of ensuring flexibility between employer and employee in order to ensure profitable production, the Government chooses to tighten the rules on flexible working time and temporary employment. The promises to secure jobs in the districts are inconvenient to the poor efforts of the Government to meet the promises of the national transport plan. If rural holdings continue to pay for transport on bad roads, establishment closer to international markets will be increasingly tempting for firms that are struggling. At the same time, it is difficult to understand how the Government will manage to increase the research effort to 3 pst. GDP. If not all of these funds are to come from the public, the Government cannot continue to tax capital owners leave behind in the enterprise. Property taxes are not an incentive to retain a high level of equity in the enterprise, which in turn can be used for industrial research. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that it is committed to providing business with stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions. How the Government has followed this up in its budget is difficult to discover. What we experience, on the other hand, are members of the government parties who warn against fighting in most areas of business, and this creates great uncertainty. Should the six-hour working day be introduced in the future? Should employees automatically receive 40 pst. representation at the company meeting? And what can happen to tax incentives? At least we don't know that. However, all company owners in Norway have probably taken the SV's view of private ownership. The Progress Party believes that we need to pursue a much more active industrial policy, including: by increasing access to risk capital. The Progress Party therefore wants to use some of its foreign assets in Norway and, through public/private funds, to increase its investment effort that does not immediately show a high return. We are a country that admits far more well-being than many other countries, and then it is important that we have an economic policy that helps to strengthen the national economy. Our most important task as politicians is not to overrule business owners, but simply to ensure that we do not impose stumbling blocks on the business community in Norway. Business needs to be a contributor to preserving the welfare society we want, but we need to be aware that they are already doing an important job: preserving and creating jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1090	The government has great ambitions for the industrial policy to be pursued in the next few years. The Soria Moria Declaration states that ‘Norway will be one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in the areas where we take advantage’. One of the areas of activity identified by the Government is the marine sector, because of the competences and merits we possess. Our policies shall be based on sustainable resource management, a fair allocation of resources and a commitment to research and competence. An overall committee points out that Norway is facing a very wide-ranging problem of unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea. The Committee also points out that the work of the Norwegian authorities on this issue is very resource-intensive and involves work across a wide range. The Government proposes to increase the allocation to the Fisheries Directorate by 15 million. kr to strengthen resource control, for example. increasing the number of inspectors and strengthening the international resource control work. In addition, there is a need to strengthen knowledge of the functioning of the black economy linked to illegal fishing. The fight against overfishing is to be won by doing a good job at home, but of course it must also be solved through good dialogue with the other countries that harvest the Barents Sea. During the Norwegian-Russian fisheries negotiations in Kaliningrad earlier this autumn, a number of common measures were agreed to combat the non-regulated fisheries. In this connection, I would like to mention: A new sub-committees shall be established under the auspices of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, which shall include, in addition to the Norwegian and Russian control authorities, representatives of the police and prosecution authorities of the two countries, as well as tax and customs authorities. We also want inspectors from the two nations to be able to use the coastguard vessel of the other country as a starting point for inspections by their own fishermen in the grey zone and in the Smutthole. We have also agreed on measures to provide better and accurate information on landings of unregistered catches in third countries. The government proposes to set aside 2.5 million. kr for actions of competence and confidence towards Russia. The aim of these funds is to build up common competences and strengthen the fisheries professional networks across the Norwegian-Russian border. We also need, in relation to the EU, more concrete and binding measures in the area of overfishing. Among other things, landing control will be a central theme. The Government has announced a new direction in fisheries and coastal policy. The societal perspective and consideration of activity, employment and settlement along the coast and in the fjords are central. We want to base our new fisheries and coastal policy on knowledge and anchor it in processes where we can participate as much as possible. The budget gives us the opportunity to take this into account. The ten salmon farming concessions in Finnmark have been renewed. Finally, feedback on whether applicants for the concessions will be available on 7 December 2005, i.e. tomorrow. If there are no applicants for the concessions, the Government will have to consider what to do with these concessions. The budget proposes an allocation of 40 million. kr to a new marine innovation programme, to be managed by Innovation Norway. Market development and overall value chain approximation are key concepts here. I share the Committee's high expectations for the new programme and will further point out that Innovation Norway's other action programme is at the disposal of the industry as well. Let me briefly say something about the objective and content of the innovation programme: Market innovation shall be the focus, i.e.: The scheme shall be open to the different parts of the industry, but shall be based on the areas where the market potential is greatest and where we have enterprises that want to strengthen their strategic devices against the market.Networks shall be a central form of work. Knowledge and competence sharing will be central, as will the development of commitment alliances and cooperation. In other words, more shall be invested in fresh seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1142	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1145	I'm glad the Council of State got to grips with the problem we have with overfishing. Since 1997, the Coast Guard has arrested 17 Spanish trawlers. Several of them are repeaters who have been taken both two and three times, but only two of the arrested trawls have been exempted from the licence for fishing. Will the Council of State in the future deprive illegal vessels of the licence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1150	Norwegian fishing authorities have previously taken the licence from vessels that have committed environmental crime in the Norwegian economic zone and will, of course, also assess it in future in the event of a breach of rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1155	In the last four years, Norwegian fishing industry has been through positive developments both at sea and on land, with increasing profitability and thus more secure, more resilient jobs in the industry along the whole coast. It is this policy that we must now change, according to the Soria Moria Declaration and the Minister for Fisheries. What is the question: What is the essence of this policy? The Soria Moria declaration has been characterised — and it may be in place — as more an invitation to a fisheries policy seminar than an approach to a new policy. Here are more questions than answers. I want to challenge the state council: what time do we get to know what will result when it comes to structural freezing? What time do we get to know about the design of district allowances and other important issues that are completely unclear? It is harmful to the industry when no clarification is given. This leads to major problems for very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1162	I agree with the representative, Mr Løvik, that a number of operators in the fisheries and aquaculture industry are doing well, with a high level of economic profitability. But I think it's strange that the Right doesn't think it's worth mentioning that we've had a bankruptcy wave along the coast, like, among other things. have sent hundreds, not to say more than 1000, of fish industry workers out on unemployment and many coastal communities are experiencing great dislocation. We want to ensure that our common fishing resources benefit as much as possible along the coast, both on the fleet side and on the land side. We will facilitate business profitability, but unlike the Right, the social perspective will also underpin our policies, and we will ensure that our shared marine resources will benefit the fisheries-dependent communities. Then we want to use good processes in the policy implemented by the Government, so that it has legitimacy, because it did not have the fisheries and coastal policy of the previous government. I'm assuming we're going back to Stortinget with the new structural policy before Christmas next year, and in terms of district quotas, we're going to set them up in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1169	We have been in this debate several times over the period of thought that the Government has taken when it comes to the structural quota arrangements. In the answer that the state council just gave, she actually confirmed that there is a reason to use about this. one year on this thought break, if I understood it correctly. I thought maybe it's a little long time, when you look at the anxiety and insecurity that's created. My question is then: can the Council of State say anything if it has thoughts of additional remedial measures both to mitigate unrest and insecurity and to reduce the damage to those who were already in the process of restructuring but who were not so far away? They had not come to the stage where they could document something in the form of contracts concluded, etc., but they were actually in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1174	When the Government introduced a structural pause, we also provided for arrangements to ensure that operators in the industry are not overburdened by it. We are continuing the operating arrangements in the coastal fleet, and we have also arranged for those who have made binding economic arrangements to be able to apply for the allocation of structural quotas by the end of this year. So I would also like to stress that the structural break is of shorter duration, and so I don't think this has negative consequences for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1180	There are four blocks for oil exploration on the Dark Coast, and it is in the main breeding and growing areas for cod, seel and herring along the entire coast. Fishing areas further north will also suffer if they are damaged or destroyed. Oil industry is on the offensive now, today through the Land Association of the Oil Industry, and provokes a conflict of interest between oil industry and the environment. Fishing interests and fishing workspaces are not mentioned in one word. The Lofoot and the Barents Sea have received all the attention in this context. My question is what will the Minister for Fisheries do to prevent oil interests from winning in the fight for these important fishing areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1185	In the 19th round of the call, consideration of fishing interests should be given, inter alia, to: by seismic shooting. I would also like to point out that it will take a long time for any expansion to take place, and in that period we have time to ensure the coexistence between petroleum and fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1190	I think I'm going to start by thanking you for the answer to my first line, and I'm just hoping that there'll be a more active policy than that could be the answer, when it comes to taking the license from vessels that fish illegally, since it's both a financial crime and an environmental crime. Negotiations between Russia and Norway on the allocation of allowances for 2006 have recently been concluded. My question to the Council of State is: is it taken into account in these negotiations that there is a large illegal fishing in the Barents Sea and elsewhere, so that the total quota is reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1197	I can assure the representative of Korsberg that the Government will pursue a very active policy in relation to resource control, and in relation to those engaged in environmental criminal activities in the Barents Sea. It is not that we take illegal fishing into account in the fisheries negotiations with Russia. It would be a part of legitimizing those who take more than they've got quota for. We will pursue a policy where we prevent overfishing through the measures I mentioned in my main post, and through an active effort on the control side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1204	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1207	Norway has a well-being at the top of the world. The economy is nuclear waste, growth is strong, interest rates are low, investment is high, and optimism in business and other societies is strong. This is a result of a policy that has focused on creating opportunities and improving the framework conditions for those who want to bet. Most of us probably want this to continue, but are we willing to meet the challenges to get it done? Globalisation makes tough demands. Changeover is not pleasant. It's moving up a safe life. The requirements are there all the time. Policies are aimed at helping to maximise the individual’s ability to deal with this. Norway is a small, specialised country in a world characterised by open competition. We depend on international agreements and framework conditions for our well-being. Today's government signals in many ways that it is prepared to break with much of this, but it remains to be seen whether one is serious, or whether it is a game for the home gallery. The actual use of veto rights will create drama. For either the EU or the WTO, it will hardly be noticed in the recipients that Norway is protesting, but countermeasures against Norway will be devastating to those who will be affected here at home. With the shift of government in the autumn, a policy of competition has become a policy of protection and protection, a policy of private solutions has become a policy of public solutions, a policy of modernisation has become a policy of maintaining the existing one, and a policy of value creation has become a policy of distribution. Does this provide the answers to the challenges for the future? Are these the answers for District Norway? Can it be said to be the answers for future value-creating Norway? I even come from a District Norway that is sorely in need of new value creation, new businesses and new impulses for growth. District Norway is often characterised by dependence on large and small export-oriented enterprises, whether in tourism or in industry. In Hedmark, travel is about a few lighthouses, such as Trysiljellet, but to a large extent about small family-run businesses run by vulnerable local ownership. In industry, large, externally owned enterprises are often based on stable commodity access from primary industries. What signals are sent to these? The tax austerity of local ownership is significant through property taxes, lower protection rates, lower depreciation rates, lower wage reductions and, in general, higher tax levels than the Bondevik government’s draft government budget. Norwegian local ownership is discriminated against and gets poorer framework conditions. It can hardly be said to stimulate offensive and increased bets. For tourism, Innovation Norway is an important partner. Børge Brende created great optimism with her offensive strategies. It is not a good signal that the investment in Innovation Norway is being reduced in line with the Bondevik government’s proposals. The tourism industry has a high potential in an international market. Protection is not what they call for. Forestry has a high potential for increased value creation. Growth is well above the annual cut-off, and the industry needs measures to stimulate increased resource use. The tax austerity that the government of Stoltenberg has carried out is a betrayal of the industry in relation to what the Central Party in particular promised in the election campaign. The result is a tax regime which is very lowly competitive in an international perspective. We are talking here about a profitable industry that competes internationally without support and that must have framework conditions in relation to it. The use of veto rights and trade insecurity is a scarescreen that is not tolerated by many in the forest industry. Agriculture is the pillars of a value chain facing major challenges. The sooner you know what to prepare for, the better it will be. There is now a strong increase in investment, a strong increase in revenue and a focus on the opportunities of many individual practitioners. It's because of the Bondevik government's focus on giving the farmer the freedom of action back through deregulation. The centre party has been museum keepers of an agricultural policy that has not produced expected results for 35 years. The WTO is probably tough for many, but worse is the signal that everyone should be tied to the mast as the storm approaches. The farmer knows he's facing big changes. Regulations hold the contractor back. The farmer must be able to find his own solutions to the challenges, and he needs clear signals as to what direction it is going. District Norway is not least dependent on offensive policies into the future. It involves a policy that gives ground to individuals and their creativity, a policy that gives each individual the opportunity to deal with tough demands from an open world. The answer is not protection and protection, but openness, knowledge and offensive framework conditions. It's not the signals we hear in the daytime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1230	When the objective is to further develop this country with a decentralised housing structure, it is important to have an active enterprise and district policy, an active education and research policy and, in particular, an active policy towards the local government sector. It is necessary to ensure that citizens, together with business, are able to develop sustainable communities in all parts of the country. I believe that we now have a budget that is a good start to a development in that direction. I believe that the budget is an inspiration for all the thousands of local politicians who have the greatest ambition and goal of developing their municipalities so that they become good communities to live in for everyone. In order to succeed, the various elements of policy must work together and move in the same direction. An example of this is the solid investments that are now being made in relation to Innovation Norway and SIVA, and also the fact that we are now reintroducing the scheme of municipal nutrition funds, a scheme that the Bondevik II government has abolished. I am absolutely sure that the Local Food Fund scheme is a good and effective scheme that supports during the establishment of a subsoil of small businesses and stimulates entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activity, businesses that will later in the development phase become customers of Innovation Norway, and perhaps also, where appropriate, participants in a SIVA business area. We have focused and should focus on facilitating the creation of new businesses. At least as important as start-ups it is to ensure competitive and stable framework conditions for existing industry, so that the innovation and development potential of these companies can also be realised. This is important, not least in relation to the developments we are now seeing in parts of the melting industry. The silicon producers in the Orchid region are a good example of cluster collaboration that develops new technologies and new products that are internationally at the forefront. Such enterprises and the environment of competence need to be stimulated and given opportunities. In this context, I think it is very positive that the Government is now working to put in place an industrial power regime that can give this industry good framework conditions on the energy side. This is essential if it is to be able to further develop and expand. I wish the Government good luck with that work. The levy on sugar and chocolate has been in the spotlight here in the Chamber in connection with the budget debate. I am pleased that the Government will have a review of the excise duty system to change the fees that are to the detriment of Norwegian production workplaces, among others. in competition with imports. It is of great importance not only for the jobs involved directly, but also in view of the impact this may have on agriculture and other suppliers of this industry. It is a question of making sustainable use of all resources in the country. Agriculture is a support bar for the important food industry and in order to ensure housing and a living cultural landscape. In my view, the proposals of the Progress Party to reduce agricultural efforts by just over 5 billion kroner compared to the Government's proposals will be totally disastrous and totally destructive to the objective of living and activity beyond our own country. But I would also like to remind you of other resource areas in our country, namely the opportunities that may lie unused in mainland Norway for new mineral deposits. I think it can be said that the oil/gas focus, which has shaped us in the last 30 years, has led to a relatively modest focus on the geological mapping of the mainland. But we have examples that closed mines have been reopened because other occurrences than those that were originally the basis for the operation have become economically interesting. Bidjovagge in Finnmark is a good example in this way. Here, an institution like NGU could well escalate the activity to map our continent in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1251	When I saw the committee and who was sitting here, I thought that it was not bad for a committee that four councillors took part in the same debate. It's not bad to be the Fourth Council of State either, to say it like that. It says something about a committee with a very broad field of action, a field of action that both engages and is important and extensive, and that I will meet in the field of competition. Let me start and start with that. In competition policy, the government has made a number of choices, which I have noticed that the majority have joined. We're clear on where we're going to have competition as a tool, and where we're not going to have it, right within important public services. The government believes that postponing competition and privatisation are not the best way to achieve the goals of important welfare areas such as education, health and care. The majority in the Committee have joined in. The government does not want to use competition and market solutions for public services within these important welfare areas. The use of competition and outsourcing may lead to increased red tape, high costs and reduced long-termity — factors that must all be included in a real assessment of the economic benefits of such instruments in relation to welfare services. But competition is an important tool in other areas. Enterprise and competition policy must and can contribute to increasing the competitiveness of business. In order to ensure a competitive Norwegian business, competition policy is one of several measures in a targeted industrial policy, where long-termity, a public active ownership, research and development, innovation, economies of scale and development of competence are elements in developing competitiveness. In markets where operators pursue their commercial interests within general framework conditions, it is necessary to have effective competition supervision to enforce the prohibition of harmful cooperation and abuse of market power. There is a need for strong competition supervision. The authority accorded to the Competition Authority by the different rules of the Competition Act must be fully exploited in order to counteract anti-competitive practices. Otherwise, we get too little of the resources in society, and consumers get hurt by poor selection and high prices. The draft budget for the Competition Authority for 2006 provides an opportunity for them to work out their tasks in a good way. Competition law from 2004 is the basis for the work of the Competition Surveillance Authority. The law contained a model for the management of this work that there was a lot of debate about when he was able to do it. I see that the majority point out in their comments that it is important for the Ministry's court to review the supervision of matters of principle, or have much to say for important consideration in society, to be assessed on an ongoing basis against the supervision of its decisions. For my part, I want to show that this rule of law is a safety valve. It shall be used where necessary. I'll follow it up. At the same time, I would like to point out that there is no objective in itself or any good administrative model of having many such changes in supervisory decisions. Another tool is the public procurement code. This shall include a number of considerations which may in practice be drawn in the direction in which the details are to be determined. The legislation has recently been amended, so that the limit for putting in place competition through the supply of procurement increases from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000. It was one of the last things that the Bondevik II government did. The Soria Moria Declaration states that a desire to increase this threshold to EU level. But it is necessary to go through all aspects of this matter. Threshold levels cannot be seen independently of other public procurement legislation. Rules both above and below this threshold are important. The case is also important because it concerns purchases for nearly 240 billion kroner each year. In the development of this legislation, it will therefore be an objective to simplify and improve the rules we have today. Rules must provide adequate transparency of the public financial arrangements. Such transparency helps to counteract the development of unfortunate cultures in the individual enterprise and can help prevent harmful circumstances such as camaraderie and corruption. It may also be appropriate to lay down sanctions against illegal direct purchases. Furthermore, it is necessary to develop competences in the State, and not least in the municipalities, both in terms of legislation and in relation to the general sense of efficiency in public procurement. I have taken up that work and expect to be able to file a case during the budgetary period about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1276	I am pleased that the Council of State will at least bring the end of the debate in the national parliament on the budget and also on competition policy. The Competition Authority ordered Statkraft to sell out of Trondheim Energieverk. That decision has been reversed by the Council of State, thereby weakening the position of the Competition Authority as an independent control body. This will result in a higher market power for Statkraft and, at the same time, in the ability to regulate prices upwards. In its explanatory statement, the Council of State stated that in the Nordic region work was to reduce the bottlenecks for transfers. When this has not been followed up in the State budget with appropriations for Statnett, is my question: Will the Government provide Statnet with more funds, so that the Council of State can implement what she has said in its explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1284	I would like to say that making a decision by the Competition Authority is not weakening the independent position of the Competition Authority. On the contrary, there is a signal that a person is taking the opportunity of appeal seriously. I've also converted decisions, by anchor, before. In the explicit matter of Statkraft, there was not an anchor on the table. That's absolutely right. It's been before, but the Bondevik government chose to hold onto the Competition Authority's decision. But it shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone that we're fulfilling what's in the Soria Moria statement, that we want a public ownership in the power sector. Competitively, as a government, gives us the opportunity to go in and make decisions when we have strong enough consideration that speaks for it. In this case, the government found that there was other concern that was more important than the scope of competition. We have not therefore entered into and reviewed the competitive assessments made by the Competition Authority. So here it's definitely not about the vending of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1291	Poor competition policy is in practice the same as taking from the weak and giving to the rich, for market benefits only the largest and most powerful companies can achieve. In such cases, large capital and well-organised trade unions fight against consumers. It is therefore worrying that the government statement hardly mentions the field of competition. In the comment on the suspension, the government parties state that competition policy is ‘one of several measures in a targeted industrial policy’. In a short time, the Government has converted several decisions of the Competition Authority relating to individual companies. Conversion of the Statkraft Decision will result in higher electricity prices in periods of power shortage. It will affect electricity customers, especially those who have low income and problems getting ends to meet. The Government has also reversed the Competition Authority’s decision against a merger in the offshore industry. Can the Council of State explain in more detail what it really means that competition policy is an instrument of targeted industrial policy? Is it to ensure less competition for individual enterprises, or is it to ensure greater competition for industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1300	The second decision of the Competition Authority of this government involved a merger between two American companies. The basis for making that decision was that we considered the market to be completely different. The Competition Authority had interpreted the signal, inter alia: from the Petroleum Control that the market was the North Sea area. But we went out wide, we got a point of view from both the players in the market and not least from the customers – because they are the ones who have to pay. It was quite obvious that here the market was global. The fact that we're just expanding the market means that there's more competition here. Ergo was an advantage to the customers. In this round I was of course glad that there was an advantage for 930 Norwegians added, but that was not decisive. It didn't matter. I could not use competition law as a basis for sustaining those jobs, but there was a consequence that I made about the Competition Authority’s decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1305	St.meld. No 15 for 2004–2005 on competition policy, which was discussed in the spring, is the basis for the implementation of competition policy in 2006. Important areas should be both the power market and smaller and local markets undergoing liberalisation processes or having one or more dominant actors. It is also important to contribute to increased competition in areas where this is currently limited. My question is: can the Council confirm that this is a priority area? And can the Council of State say a little more about plans and progress to follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1312	Yes, I can say a little more about that. One area where I have taken an initiative linked to dominant actors is in the insurance industry. There was a look at the news where it could seem that one had an excessive increase in the premiums compared to what one had paid out in the event of damage. We also see that we have some big, dominant players in the insurance industry, and perhaps for bad competition. We do not know that, but I have asked the Competition Authority to go into the insurance industry and look at it. So let's see what the Competition Authority reports back, what the position is. But it is quite obvious that both I and the Minister of Finance, as she is in charge of the legislation, are busy. To this end, with price and State power, I would just say that one should be aware that one has gained an improvement in relation to Statkraft's dominance in Nord-Trøndelag and Mid-Norway. They actually have more power, through rent and hall, than what was in the original decision of the Competition Authority. So I'm not worried about the price, neither in central Norway, nor in northern Norway, nor in the country. I think there are other things that control the price of the power market than just these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1321	Prime Minister Stoltenberg states that the introduction of the 6-hour day is completely out of date. Nevertheless, the renewal minister, Grande Røys, will be allowed to spend 10 million. kr on the 6-hour day trial next year – a completely unintelligible unclear policy and uncertainty for businesses. Equally unclear is the Government’s policy on the relocation of state jobs. While the Central Party is about to make the mass movement of time, the Minister of Renewal puts his foot down, because it creates so many conflicts. At the top of this is the government's lack of competition policy. Perhaps the Competition Authority is not weakened, but competition policy is weakened. Statkraft and Trondheim Energieverket are mentioned. State power's dream of becoming a state monopoly capitalist has been helped by the new Minister of Competition, and a new industrial power regime is also announced, which is about weakening competition and subsidising individual companies. The Council of State has made ‘renewal’ a political new word. But the content of the renewal policy, besides being confusing, seems to me to be old-fashioned. What is renewal for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1328	There were a lot of questions here. I'll see what I'm going to do in a minute. Let me take the so-called uncertain link to the relocation of state workplaces. As the representative of Sponheim was involved, in his election program, the Central Party had something different than what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. The center part got penetration as far as Soria Moria's range, and that's it. What the Center Party has as its primary policy is not the Government's policy. What is the Government's policy are the following: ‘Localisation of new State activities shall take place outside Oslo, unless there is specific justification.’;» We shall ‘evaluate the relocations carried out by state establishments and determine whether parts of existing State activities can be located outside Oslo’. That is what I have said, and that is what the Soria Moria Declaration says. At least that means that we don't go on the path that the previous government went on, that's forcibly moving out of state budgets. If we're going to move state agencies or agencies, it's going to happen in a dialogue and after an assessment of all the issues involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1344	The councils were early out and praised the 6-hour trial and stated the following in Aftenbladet.no 18 November: "We don't want to have a failed attempt." Although critical voices have indicated that this does not allow business to do so, there will not be enough qualified labour to fill the gaps in hours this will lead to in the public and private sectors, the Council of State clearly believes in the 10 million effort. kr to be completed. In the same interview, the Council of State mentions that she does not believe in the calculation provided by the previous government, that the implementation of the 6-hour day will have a cost of up to 50 billion kroner. So my question is, does the Council itself have a calculation of what the implementation of the 6-hour working day will cost? And what does the famous SV calculator possibly show?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1358	If you read the budget setting, you'll see that it says we're not going to spend $10 million. kr to carry out trials next year. We're going to spend $10 million. kr to prepare the trial, and there will be something else. And the reason why we're going to do that is because there's a lot of tests going on. There are some exciting attempts, for example in the private sector. Why does it do that? For example, Nardo Bil in Trondheim, FHL farm by former director Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Toyota in Gothenburg, it simply finds that having a 6-hour test is income equivalent. There is no other reason why private enterprises run work trials, except that they actually also pay off on the bottom line. It pays off in relation to those added to it’s ability to stand on and endure to retirement and perhaps beyond that, the health absence statistics show positive effects, etc. When private businesses find it interesting, it's clear that it must also be interesting for public companies to go in and look at it. We have a few, scattered trials that have given positive results. Others have had negative results. That's why we have to get in and get the results, get an overview and look at all the sides of that experiment. That's what we're going to do in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1365	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1370	One of the areas where we first saw a change in government was just business policy. There we have a new course. For us in Westfold, the net pay system is important, and that is why it is a big day for us in Stortingen today, when 1,500 jobs in Westfold are actually mountained just because it was a government change. In addition, the introduction of the net pay scheme into large parts of the non-competition fleet comes during the year. It has primarily provided safe jobs. But it has also given rise to new developments, because we see that those who have now secured their future choose to invest and develop the next generation of technology in Norway. It gives industrial development, it gives technological development, and it gives even more jobs. It is such that what seemed to be flagging out as a result of the previous government has instead become development with the new government. This is because we have replaced the unpredictable rules under the previous government with predictability. Unpredictability has also affected another important industry in Norway, namely forestry. Under the same concept of business neutrality, under the previous government, forestry was affected by new tax rules that would have led to a dramatic decline in harvests in Norway. Fortunately, we were able to get through to reintroduce the mean equation, but we need to get further. That is why I am pleased that the new Minister for Forestry, often referred to as the Minister for Agriculture, has indicated that we are going to launch a new initiative and active planning of the future forestry policy. It is important because it is an industry that contributes significantly to Norwegian export income. To do that, we also have to bet on the primary side, i.e., investing in forest. It's actually the result now is that investing in forests is reduced to the level that we were at in the 1940s. If you want to harvest in the future, we have to invest now. We may be at risk of becoming the generation that not only drained the oil resources, which is a one-off resource, but also failed to renew the renewable resource in the forest. That would be a shame to our descendants. There's the new signal. The representatives of the previous government, and in particular the Right, constantly repeat, both in writing and from this pulpit, that the State does not build the country. It was a correct description of the previous government. But now a new course has been introduced. A course has been introduced in which business neutrality has been replaced by targeted investment, where unforeseeableness has been replaced by predictability, and where business passiveness as a whole has been replaced by active enterprise policies. It provides a good basis for creating the values that we're all interested in sharing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1382	It seems that there was a representative from the Right who was talking about stumble threads, but it seems that the government party is able to place stumble threads on its own! It's nice to follow a debate where it's so obvious that the direction is new and different. I heard a line from the left hand leader here recently. It was obvious that there was a new direction here. We had extensive debates on industrial power regimes in the previous period in the Stortinget. Then the argument of the then government party was that this was something that could not have happened. A shift ESA ahead of itself; establishing an industrial power regime was something you couldn't. Now it's obvious, when the right party has left the government offices, that this is something you don't want either. It's nice that we get the differences clearly. The fishing area is another area where it's obvious that we're getting a new direction, and that's very good. From the budget proposal under consideration today, it is also clear that words have become an action. The Nordic region focus may not have prevented anyone from realizing that this government has. The addition of Coast Guard is one example, but what goes on within the Directorate of Fisheries is also part of this effort. It's very happy. We work a lot from SV in the previous period with measures against financial crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry. We felt that there was little resonance in relation to these proposals. There were some commissions created, and the commissions' reports were put in the drawer, but nothing happened. Now we see that words become action. It's very happy. Then one sees that there's a proposal posted at the representatives' seats in the hall today. When I read that proposal, I was a little surprised. For where was the Progress Party in the previous period when SV put forward proposals on financial crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry? Where, then, were they? At least they weren't a driving force then. I see the split proposal as a purely demonstration proposal. No amount has been specified. It is also not implemented in any settings. On the contrary, the party which today proposes to ask the Government to provide the necessary financial resources to stop unregulated fishing has cut down to 12 million. kr in the Fisheries Directorate. It's not related at all. One promotes a proposal just to demonstrate, and there's nothing we especially appreciate from the SV's side. On the other hand, we appreciate that the Government has prioritised it. It is a priority in the declaration, it is a priority in the government's draft budget, and it is a priority in the committee's position. This government is making words into action. I also encourage other parties to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1397	Travel is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. I am very pleased that this government has invested so much in travel. The tourism industry is particularly important for districts, and travel is the basic industry of many communities and triggers important ring-effects in other local businesses. The basis for profitability in Norwegian travel businesses is the ability to develop attractive products that appeal to travellers and which they thus demand. Today's tourists want special experiences based on nature, culture and authenticity. It's maybe one of the most important signals. Many fires have understood this around the district of Norway. And I want to give some examples from my kingdom, namely from Hedmark. Atna in Stor-Elvdal has got order on the branch si, we can say, thanks to a cultural café. Many tourists visit Glopheim, who have attracted many great artists. I will also bring forward the municipality of Trysil, who, thanks to political will and ability, has created a winter adventure for all generations by investing in winter tourism. State instruments and partners are necessary. Innovation Norway, as it is now, after the merger of, among others, SND and the Norwegian Tourist Council are responsible for the marketing of Norway — together with the industry, of course — is important. Live agriculture is important for the tourism industry. Decommissioned use and empty farms are not a good advertisement. And here I will bring a little heart attack. I hope and believe that the government will stand firm on a wise predatory management, so that people don't get scared out of their farms around in our district. It is important to continue the work done in the context of rural tourism, food culture and all that is happening in the direction of agriculture. This year, funding from Innovation Norway has been allocated to actions for increased knowledge and activity and profitability in small-scale production. The majority government will develop a national tourism strategy based on the proximity of nature and Norwegian culture. I am incredibly happy about that, and I know that there are many people around in District Norway who have a rock belief that agriculture is still going to be a living contribution to living areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1412	Agriculture plays an important role in the Christian People's Party's industrial policy. Sustainable agriculture across the country is important, with viable Norwegian food production and animal husbandry. Our country is great, but the topography is different. My county, Eastfold, is pretty flat. It gives our agriculture opportunities that no other state has. We're going to take care of these. Akershus and Østfold are counties that we might call granaries. In these two states, we produce 38 pst. of our grain in Norway. At the same time, we must also take into account the topography that exists. With flat soils down to streams and lakes, it gives us some challenges. These challenges have been addressed — and they are great — such as: in the Morsa cooperation. But there is still some to maintain drinking water sources, to maintain bathing beaches and fishing sites. Closer cooperation between agriculture and environmental authorities is needed. This was underlined by the majority of the Business Committee in its position last year. For some of these areas we are now talking about, there may be a need for careful conversion of agriculture, along the watercourses, for example. It's to protect the environment. Having grass along the watercourses helps prevent run-off to these watercourses. This can therefore be a good tool. But then someone has to eat the grass, and therefore a policy is needed that stimulates animals in those parts of the country where nature suggests that grain production is not entirely compatible with the geography we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1421	Unlike what has been said in a couple of posts earlier today, I'm going to claim that we live in a wonderful country. Norway has the possibilities, and it's up to you to exploit them. And if you're going to do it, many people on the road – the business community, the finance industry – and one have to use public tools. We have to set a bold goal of getting the best where we have our advantage. We need to stimulate development and entrepreneurial activity. We must have believed in ourselves. We need banks that take local responsibility. In recent years we have had a major restructuring of the Norwegian banking system. This means that more and more important decisions about loans and credit are taken entirely elsewhere than in the community. We often hear about small and medium-sized enterprises working hard to get banks involved in new projects. We need banks that can set up with patient capital and good knowledge of local business, banks that take local responsibility for social development. The tourism industry is becoming a national field of activity through the current budgetary procedure. Such a strategy must be based on proximity to nature, partly through the experience of real, untouched and quiet, and partly through the active exploitation of nature through sport and stress. In order to achieve a good national travel strategy, it is crucial to put in place a more targeted marketing and training. Today I want to highlight one group in the country, simply the women. One of the biggest driving forces behind a successful business life is women's liberation. Women's entry into work has led to more hands at work and has meant enormously to our welfare and wealth development. But without kindergartens, without birth money, without the school start of six-year-olds, without the SFO and without a safe work environment law, this would not be possible. In the end, as Norsk Hydro celebrates its 100th anniversary this year, I want to draw a quote from the founder, Sam Eyde. He said, ‘Where there is a willer there’ We should all put that on our hearts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1439	I must admit that it was the contribution of the representative Foster violence from the Progress Party that provoked me to take the floor again. A more amicable description of Norwegian business is to be sought for a long time. The complaint about the situation is poorly consistent with the reality and even worse with the list of increases in fees and charges contained in the draft budget of the Progress Party. In addition to the mentioned cut in the allocations to the Directorate of Fisheries, the Progress Party wishes to self-finance the Brønn Island Health Registers, which means that the corporate fee has to be increased. They want to reduce the appropriations for the Food Authority. They want to cut the appropriations for Adjustervesenet and the Patent Board. Together, we're talking about nearly 100 million. kr in increased loads on Norwegian business. In addition, I would like to stress that well-being is a competitive advantage. In Norwegian society, there are many well-being goods that are either free, or available for cheap money, and for which expensive judgments are required in other countries — if you can afford it. There is a difference between a fully privatised healthcare system in the happy United States of America of the Progress Party and the public offer we have in Norway. It's something that business doesn't least serve. The Norwegian public interest is an underestimated competitive advantage. The previous government made a significant effort to remove every little spike from the toolbox to the Minister of Industry. It takes time to carefully rebuild an instrument for an active industrial policy — but we are on the way — while at the same time assessing the types of instruments that can be reconciled with international agreements concluded by Norway. Here it is an element that I think especially the Progress Party underestimates in its complaint song about Norwegian business. One of the most obvious opportunities to continue securing Norwegian industry energy at prices with which it can live lies in the combination of an active ownership of Statkraft and the focus on energy saving. Environmental measures are a wide-open port in relation to the international legislation that we unfortunately have to deal with. However, environmental measures may not be a priority for the Progress Party, although this is the solution for continued industrial activity in Norway. From before, we have the brain power, and we have the hydropower. The new government also gives us the power to act: an active, forward-looking industrial policy that can ensure jobs and housing even when the oil price – and with that gas price – continues to rise. An active industrial policy including active public ownership is better for business than the Black Painting of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1454	The President does not believe that the characteristic ‘advisable’ of the posts of a co-representative falls within the scope of parliamentary language. We have to concentrate on disagreeing or agreeing with posts, and not characterising the posts of the co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1457	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr of the Progress Party pointed out in his main speech on agricultural policy the need for efficiency improvement both in primary production and in industry's economic organisations. Furthermore, the representative Øyvind Korsberg stated in his post that the Progress Party will release the farmer – if he is not free already today. At the same time, the Progress Party proposes enormous cuts in agricultural incomes from 1 January 2006, i.e. in the case of approx. 25 days. Of course, the party of progress, which is the largest and tone-setting opposition party, must be taken seriously, even if they promote an ultra-liberalist policy. What are the consequences of the cutting of the Advance Party about approx. 25 days, on 1 January, for the jobs in the food industry, for the jobs in agriculture? Well, the direct and literal effect of the proposals of the Progress Party will be that we turn off the lights in the house by house, in built-up areas dependent on agriculture and the food industry. Is that what the party's voters want and ask for when, in these days, they light the pre-Christmas candle? Unfortunately, the representative of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is right in one assessment: several thousand farmers have disappeared from the industry in recent years, and the income has not increased for those who have remained in the industry. The challenge is that the policy of the Progress Party will strengthen this development. There will be both fewer farmers and much lower incomes in the industry. The mantra of the Progress Party is that you have to get fewer in order to get better. But history shows completely the opposite trend and result. Efficiency gains and rationalisation gains have not remained in the industry in recent years. We from the Center Party believe that there is a need to convert the instruments. There is a need for a review of the entire agricultural policy in order to take account of the ambitious wording of the Soria Moria Declaration, full of social responsibility, and the pursuit of rural policy objectives. The aim of such a review must be to create optimism through a different development of incomes in agriculture. Farming needs to pay off – through conversion – to be capable, to think new, and to develop operations and communities. It must also be reflected in the agricultural agreement system in the future. In order to support and ensure the development of income, there can be no doubt that the industry must maintain efficiency gains and, in addition, have to have income developments similar to those of the other social groups. That's what we mean in the Center Party. Finally, I would like to refer to proposal No. 8, by Mr Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party. We ask for the proposal to be submitted. If it cannot be transmitted, we have to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1470	The government statement has created optimism in broad groups, and the situation and specificity of the various industries in industrial policy must be given much greater importance. This is a positive and important signal for not least the product-producing industries, and the main weight of the product-producing industries lies in the districts. Improved income opportunities for this business are central and crucial for creating optimism so that young people can establish themselves. This is a major challenge when we know current income opportunities in a number of district industries. In the election campaign, forestry and woodworking were central. It was a major challenge then to improve the profitability of forestry and not least in the woodworking industry. There are now few young people who find it economically interesting to manage forests, and a number of industrial enterprises are in an economic situation that is far more serious than what has emerged in the media. So we're in a serious situation, and many people are asking the simple question: are we in a situation where Norway can go towards becoming a commodity producer instead of processing our timber? We therefore need to develop this industry, and the two governments concerned have a responsibility to follow it up, to look at both forestry and wood processing industries and to draw up an action plan based on that industry's specific and actual economic situation. Just as in forestry, the situation for agriculture and also for the food industry is such that it is far different from optimism that characterises large parts of the industry. Therefore, the relevant State Councils must put a similar work there. And the government statement allows for optimism, it allows for action, so that jobs can be secured. For agriculture, income opportunities are now so weak that recruitment fails, while there is a broad majority of the population who want a development where young people can find it interesting to grasp. That is why a new course is needed. The future agricultural situation is becoming central to ensuring income opportunities. As the head of the nutrition committee said, it is central to the agricultural industry that the efficiency gains that the industry can achieve after labor is an efficiency gain that must be maintained in the industry. In addition, the industry must have an income trend that is in line with the development of other groups' income. Only through it can we get a certain change in profitability, so that more people want to catch up. This is central to the future agricultural situation and must be combined with the use of funds in such a way that either young people choose to run full-time or part-time, they need to find income for their work, because that is the structure, that is the reality we are in in Norway. Norway is a land poor country, which does not imply economies of scale and industrialisation, on the contrary, with many income legs to stand on, where the profitability of grass production is crucial in order to ensure a development that not least meets the ecological requirements that many consumers want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1481	It is good that we now have a red-green government and a state council that is about to fill up the empty toolbox that the previous government, the Bondevik II government, left behind. If we are to have an up-and-coming business throughout the country, it is important to provide stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions for business and to pursue an active industrial policy where the State is engaged in partnership with businesses and workers. Norway has many advantages, and we have great opportunities to develop Norwegian business if we use our tools. We have competence and special advantages, such as the marine sector and the maritime sector, such as energy and the environment, and not least as travel life. State ownership must guarantee the right to dispose of our common natural resources that secures the income of the community. The new government will take care of and further develop the industry while contributing to the development of new industrial activities. And we need that. The 2006 budget is set at 172.5 million. SEK to, among others travel life through Innovation Norway. This is an increase of approx. 70 pst. in relation to the 2005 budget. This will have a major impact on, for example: District Norway. For industry and, in particular, the power-processing industry, the framework conditions in the field of power are very important. Rich supply of electricity was one of the main reasons why the power-generating companies were established in their time. But times have changed. Major changes have taken place over longer periods in the framework of industrial power availability. The Energy Act of the early 1990s changed the general power market, with prices that have more reflected the real value of power. Norway and the Nordic countries were early out in this area, and we have, among other things, received a Nordic power exchange. Now government-based power agreements run out. This creates significant challenges for our power-generating industry. Unlike the previous government, we will help meet these challenges. We will work actively to find schemes that ensure the power of industry, and nothing will be unruly. The Norwegian shipping industry has long traditions and shipping and the maritime industry contributes to important maritime competence jobs across the coast. Through good and stable framework conditions, we will contribute to ensuring jobs and growth in the maritime industry. A contribution to this is among other things: the extension of the net pay scheme for seafarers from 1 July 2006. This will significantly strengthen the framework conditions for seafarers on board competitive ships in NOR. There is no doubt that the Red-Green Government and the Council of State have taken action to organise new framework conditions for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1498	A few comments – first to the representative Oppebøen Hansen, who talks about his women's involvement in the working life: I would like to remind the representative that women have been an important part of the working life long before the period that Upbebøen Hansen talks about. In many parts of the country, women have been the ones who have drilled both business and communities for many times — at least this has been said. So until the constant attempts of the government parties that are ousted by a bad conscience to explain that this is really cut when it comes to aid for development, conversion and innovation in business from the party in relation to the budget provided by the Bondevik II government. There's a lot of people who have said that this is tax revenue and poorer depreciation rules. In what we are going to adopt today, there is also a sharp reduction – although the government party is trying to produce it as an increase – in relation to the budget of the government of Bondevik II when it comes to supporting the industrial rights of research, development, travel and all the good that the government party has highlighted here from the Chair. When the representative Dag Terje Andersen says that it has been said from the former government parties, especially the Right, that the state cannot build the country, it is wrong. The state can be involved in and build the country and facilitate the development of nutrition, and we are making this quite clear in the proposal we have made. Then the Minister of Industry comes up with the fantastic statement that we cannot compare because our proposal is not agreed. No, of course, that's what we're going to vote on today, so to say that you can't compare to it because it's not agreed, it's a little pointless. So to the point: what I asked for was a explanation of vote. But let me first, on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, put forward the proposal that is in the vote. If this should fall – I recommend the proposal on the warmest – the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will support the framework area 10, fisheries, and the framework area 11, agriculture. We will vote against the Framework Area 9, industry, plus the part of modernisation that lies here. We also oppose the proposal No. 2-7, from the Progress Party, and we will, as the committee leader and did, ask that proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, will be converted into a forwarding proposal. We're interfering with it, and we've been involved in increasing the promises for this purpose. Asking for further permissions now we can't be on, because it will be outside the frames. But the intentions are the best, and if necessary, I hope the Government will come back with it in the revised budget. A prayer from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left is again that proposal No. 8 will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1509	The representative Petter Løvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1513	In his eagerness to highlight the outstanding property of the red-green government, enough representative Dag Terje Andersen was injured to use some somewhat unprecise formulations. I would just like to say that the average equation for forestry was put in place in the revised budget for 2005, and then the Cooperation Government was still in the best interests. So Andersen's representative spent a lot of time talking about business neutrality, and I totally agree that business neutrality would say that one is not a bet where one is good, and one has possibilities. It could almost seem as if the representative owed the Co-operation Government for being in charge of business neutrality. But what happened was that both Minister of Finance Foss and Minister of Industry Burnde said several times quite clearly that our government did not prejudiced business neutrality – we had a business-friendly policy. I have looked for a little – and it was difficult – to find documented business neutrality in a large-scale paper. The only place I can find it is in St.meld. No 36 for 2000–2001, where the Stoltenberg I Government, etc. writes that the food neutrality is to be taken into account for the instrumentation in the SND, which it is called at that time. In addition to this embrace of business neutrality from the Stoltenberg I administration, I cannot find documented other adherents of business neutrality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1520	It is the representative of Åsa Elvik and the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik who makes me take the floor at the end of the debate. It's true that we cut $12 million. In the budget of the Directorate-General for Fisheries, however, it is also noted that we want to give priority to control work. To strengthen control in the Barents Sea and other sea areas, you do not strengthen it by employing more desk generals. It's actually the generals out on the sea and out on the ships that need to strengthen the surveillance. We've taken that into account in our alternative budget, and we put on the Coast Guard 110 million. kr. Then they had several vessels out to run effective control. As stated in North Light on December 2nd, there will be 100 fewer days at sea for the Coast Guard, just because you don't have any means, and it's the helicopter-carrying vessels that are being reduced. It is not to strengthen control in these areas. We don't consider this as an expense. This is simply an investment to preserve the economic resources, and not least the marine resources that are not only economic but that are environmental resources. There was a lot coming from the representative Vaggen Malvik. She referred to our proposals on fees, and some of the other proposals we have, but it has to be seen in the context of the whole budget. We don't expect SV to be able to do that, but at least that's the answer I want to give back. Similarly, the Health Policy of the Progress Party was commented on. It's a strange day to get such a question on. The health policy of the Progress Party is to come back to when we have that debate, but today I am not going to use the big words on that very piece. So to the representative Lars Peder Breck, who was involved in what we do to Norwegian farmers. I fully agree that we are releasing the Norwegian farmers. In many areas, we have pursued an active and good policy for Norwegian farmers – just take the predatory policy, where the Senterpartiet was united with the Progress Party, and the protection policy, where the Centerpartiet and the Progress Party stand together. We have also made proposals that farmers should be allowed to use more of their land for different purposes, including: relative to power generation. But there the government has effectively put its foot down to avoid such a good policy. As far as the proposal is concerned, the Progress Party will maintain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1535	There have been many strange allegations in this debate about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party that we must reject. There is reason to challenge the Storting on the following: What policy has led to the massive deportation we see? What is the policy that leads to thousands of farmers leaving their profession every year? What is the policy that makes it grow again, as many say? What is the policy that leads to the closure of thousands of farms? What is the policy that leads to low incomes? And what policy is it that leads to anything but optimism in agriculture, as the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen said in his speech? There is only one answer to this, and that is that this is a result of the policy that the Centerpartiet and Lars Peder Breck stand for for a number of years. Nor do I believe that the new government can promise farmers any particular increase in the agricultural agreement. We're honest with the Norwegian farmer. We take the Norwegian farmer seriously, and we dare to tell the Norwegian farmer what a majority really means. We dare to say what everyone sees is going to happen. In addition, we dare to make demands on everyone who is to receive public transfers, and we are of the opinion that public support must have a clear targeting. Therefore, it is completely wrong that it is the Center Party, the Bond Team and Lars Peder Breck who have a monopoly on believing what is a correct agricultural policy. Until then, the current agricultural policy is too flawed – it should be clear. Why does the Central Party not agree more with the Advance Party in terms of yes to ownership, more freedom for the farmer, reduced form fields and bureaucracy for the farmer, more value-creating of the farmer, no to protection, good care for the properties of the local community and active predatory policies on the premises of the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1546	I am pleased that the business environment has been so much focused on in this debate. The fact that we have a majority government is, in many ways, a solid contribution to the predictability of business. We therefore have a government which has a clearly defined parliamentary basis in the Chamber, as opposed to the previous government, which had an unclear and unexplained parliamentary basis and which had to deal with a politically unforeseeable progress party. Good framework conditions for business are so many. The rapporteur, Mr Tromsøs, pointed out a few weeks ago to a study by the city’s business leaders on what was most important, not what was the five most important measures for business, not the three main ones, but the most important ones. The answer was not surprising for me and this government – it was kindergartens. It wasn't taxes, and it wasn't taxes. It was kindergartens that were the most important thing. The representative, Løvik, was a little bit concerned with the increased investment in research into north-zone development. My message that the proposal tabled by Mr Bondevik II was not adopted in the Chamber is correct. It was not adopted. One had to relate to a progress party that has a completely different balance than when the Bondevik II government made its appearance. The majority of the proposals had to be found within a balance sheet defined by the Bondevik government. That was the challenge. I'm glad we have a government that takes the challenges and sees the opportunities. I remember when working hours were reduced from 42.5 hours a week to 40 hours a week. I was active in business – out on the «gold» in the industry. These were the same arguments that were then put forward, which are currently being carried out by those who are opposed to the 6-hour trial. It was the same environment the counter-arguments came from. We've actually developed a business that we can be proud of, that has a high competitiveness and that has a high level of competence. Therefore again: I am pleased that we have a government and a minister of renewal who is courageous and takes the challenges and sees the opportunities. We are well in the process of taking a number of measures to ensure and improve the business environment. We have developed a design package that is important for business and that is important for the competitive business, not least. We are about to set up an industrial power regime in close dialogue with ESA, within the framework of an EEA agreement. In total, a number of individual measures will improve the framework conditions and competitiveness of industry in a good way in the future. We have to rule for at least four years, and we have a clearly defined parliamentary basis in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1561	This debate has shown that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are committed to their industry neutrality. Even the Progress Party wants a much more targeted enterprise initiative than the three parties are in favour. This is illustrated, inter alia, by: with the resistance of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to the net pay system and their eagerness to get rid of such a targeted action in business policy. They are also committed to a strengthened competition policy, most notably in the spirit of liberalism, including an utterly hopeless policy of public procurement. All of us who at some point have had a say in public procurement legislation know that it is imperative to do something about it – make it less complicated and get a real simplification of this legislation so that it can be handled in the streets, not to say in Norwegian municipalities. It is part of this picture that the right-wing parties also give way to their traditional fear of the state, and the corresponding sale of state ownership. The counterpart of this is, of course, an active state ownership, and we hope that they will gradually overcome their state fear when they see the results of a new state ownership policy. May I also remind you of the close relationship of transport policy with industrial policy. Through consultations within the Committee, we have been informed of the importance of the secondary road network for the aquaculture industry and the ability of the aquaculture industry to transport the products to the main road network, the aerodromes respectively. I mention this because we also know that traffic problems in the Oslo area alone cost business hundreds of millions of dollars every year – this as a recording of tomorrow's communication debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1572	Petter Løvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1575	Claims are no longer true because they are repeated several times. Listening to Steinar Gullvåg what the representative Sørfonn once said: The only government that has ever used and opted for nutrition neutrality is the former government of Stoltenberg – so that it is clear. So to the net payroll scheme: I want to remind you that the Bondevik II government added three times more than the previous Stoltenberg government. The changes that are now being made will benefit some groups, others will have disadvantages. Among other things, people in the NIS register who are certified will come out worse. Here's a bunch of winners, and here's a bunch of losers. Of course, we will consider this arrangement. And then it doesn't help to talk away from what's real here. This is not a matter of state terror, but the truth is that the new government is cutting the industry rate that Bondevik II provided in several important areas. Although 20 here have said that this is not true, it's actually true.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1584	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1592	We're going to vote on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1600	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 2-8, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 7 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 8 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President first addresses the proposals outside the framework areas. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-8, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e1667	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution under the framework areas 9, 10 and 11, and the corresponding minority proposals, and we shall start with the framework area 9. Before we go to voting on the vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution in the framework area 9, there will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right Party and the Christian Party and the Left, to this area. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e3461	The vote will then be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e5248	Here it is announced that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left will vote against the position – and the Advance Party, as previously stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e5261	We've come to the 10th framework. There is also an aberrant proposal for this area, No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e5901	The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, under the chairmanship of the Committee on the Environment,
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e6524	Here it is announced that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left will now support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e6537	We've come to the 11th Framework Area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e7801	Here the President has understood it so that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the vote, while the Advance Party is also opposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-06.ana.ud1264e7821	There is no record.
