ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e85	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e101	Act on compulsory occupational pension is a follow-up to the decision of the Stortinge in May of this year during the processing of the pension notification. I am very pleased that the broad agreement that was concluded then, is now being followed up. It is actually positive that SV is also part of today's majority. It is positive for the predictability of the future pension system that there is such a broad consensus. NOU 2004:1 estimated that there were 800000–900 000 persons employed who did not have occupational retirement provision. In St.meld. No 12 for 2004–2005, the notification of pensions, it was estimated that between 500000 and 600000 persons are employed in enterprises that currently have access to – but have not chosen to establish – tax-advanced pension savings. This applies mainly to small enterprises in the private sector. Compulsory occupational pension will apply from 1 January 2006 and the final deadline for employers to establish pension schemes for their employees is set at 1 July 2006. Norway has a small mobile labour market. In addition to being geographically low mobile, the workforce has also been shown to be less willing to move from the public sector to the private sector. As of 1 January, one of the mobility limiting factors will disappear, namely pensions. The public sector has, in total, improved significantly better arrangements than is common in the private sector but, as a result of compulsory occupational retirement provision, some of these differences are eliminated. As a result of the decisions taken today, the employer will be obliged to pay a minimum of 2 pst. of the wages and salaries of all their employees meeting the criteria between 1 and 12 G. There will be a substantial new expenditure for many employers. It is important to clarify that this new expenditure must be included in the forthcoming salary settlement, while adding that, of course, remuneration is entirely due to the social partners. At the same time, it is also important to stress that what Odelstinget is now adopting is a minimum law. It is not Odelsting's intention that existing schemes should be reduced to the minimum required by law. Apprenticeships are not ordinary workers. Therefore, I would like to make a strong recommendation to the Government to consider using the right of regulation to also exclude apprentices over 20 years of age from the law, not just those below. Fears have arisen from several hearing bodies that the law could reduce access in the number of apprenticeship places. That would be a very unfortunate effect. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, asks the Government to assess whether tax-advanced pension savings for self-employed persons can be extended. This majority specifically requests that an upper limit of 4 pst. be assessed, instead of the proposed maximum limit of 2 pst., which is also the minimum limit of the law for workers. This assessment is requested to be presented in the revised national budget, so that any extended scheme can be implemented for 2006. The majority also ask for an assessment of the need for other changes in tax-stimulated pension schemes, both for employees and for self-employed persons. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, it would be very unfortunate that self-employed persons are guaranteed significantly lower pension conditions than ordinary workers. Many of the hearing bodies have expressed particular concern over the low minimum threshold for inclusion in the scheme. This is a concern as well as the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. These parties ask the Government to follow closely the situation and come back to the Storting with changes, so that the number of free policies and certificates of capital can be reduced if there is a problem. One measure that I want to highlight is that the individual enterprise can choose forward-looking payments if they have a liquidity problem. I specifically ask the Council of State to assess this. I would like to conclude by saying that this is a positive day for our many employees who are now receiving compulsory occupational pension, and are to a large extent treated as the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e124	Odelsting is to be the subject of a decision today on the compulsory occupational pension law. This is a follow-up to the Storting's previous decision on pension reform before the summer holiday this year, and this is one of the elements that was at the time in the reconciliation between the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. When this case was dealt with during the previous ageing period, the Progress Party voted against the introduction of compulsory occupational pension. Our comment on the matter was among other things. as follows: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party also indicate that compulsory occupational retirement provision is introduced in employment with effect from 1 January, despite the fact that no economic impact study has been carried out on employers who per year. currently does not offer occupational pensions to their employees. [[...]] These members consider it directly irresponsible to introduce compulsory occupational retirement provision without further investigation of its effects. The direct effect of the introduction is that all compensation of employees increases by at least 2 pst. This may be enough for many jobs to disappear. For many workers, this means that what is now being proposed to them as an extra benefit related to employment is proving to be the single measure, which, at the top of an already under pressure of profitability in several industries, brings people into unemployment.» In general, the Progress Party is skeptical about introducing new mandatory schemes that will add to the burden of many low-capital and low-income enterprises in several industries. Our starting point is that this is a negotiation case between the employer and the employee. There are various reasons why employers do not offer occupational pensions today, and usually for the following three reasons: Employers do not have the finances to offer it.Workers have also prioritised higher wages. It has not been necessary to provide it to attract the necessary labour. The Progress Party continues to believe that better time should be given to assess the economic impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. And we are of the opinion that there are no satisfactory impact assessments of such a compulsory occupational pension. The conclusion of the Progress Party is therefore that we will oppose the introduction of a compulsory occupational pension from 1 January 2006. However, as long as there is a majority in the Financial Committee for the Law, the Progress Party has made some proposals which, in our view, are clear improvements to the proposed legislative text, which makes the implementation of such legislation the best possible for business. Let me comment on some of the amendments from the Progress Party to the proposed law. Several hearing bodies warn against apprentices over 20 years of age being entitled to occupational pension. It's per. at present a major problem of getting enough enterprises to take on apprentices, and such a requirement is likely to reduce the interest in providing apprenticeships. Apprentices are students with a contract of education and thus do not have a contract of employment. Therefore, apprentices should be excluded from compulsory occupational retirement provision. The party of progress also fears that apprentices who will then be 20 years old during apprenticeship, or who are already 20 years old, will be discriminated against rather than younger. The next proposal on our part concerns the minimum of 20 pst. position. This is very low, and several different hearing responses from organisations point this out. Positions below this size include school students, students, seasonal workers, short-term vicars and other jobs that are often of a short-term nature. So this is a legal requirement that will result in even more administrative work. The background to employees taking such jobs is usually that they want extra pay there and there. Therefore, there should be a negotiation case between the employer and the employee on what is appropriate. The Progress Party therefore considers that a lower limit should be at least three monthly works per year. year or salary payment equal to 2 G for an employee. When the proposal for a compulsory public service pension is likely to receive a majority in this Chamber today, the Progress Party considers that there will be unfair discrimination if self-employed persons are limited to saving up to 2 pst. of pension-saving income, while others may set aside up to 8 pst. with full tax deductions. Several hearing bodies have just pointed this out. The ceiling should therefore be increased accordingly for self-employed workers, so that the boundaries become equal, irrespective of the size of the enterprise and the form of the organisation. Our last amendment to the proposed law is that start-ups must be allowed a longer period than six months to set up a pension scheme. The Progress Party is also in line with many of the Hearing Officers. The amazing thing is that even the ministry agrees that the time limit for start-ups is too short, but is nevertheless in favour of applying to all enterprises. Founding companies have many cost-intensive expenditures in their phase and should not be charged with additional resource-intensive tasks and costs. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that start-ups should be granted a one-year period from the fulfilment of the conditions for compulsory occupational retirement provision but nevertheless be given the possibility of setting up a voluntary pension scheme at an earlier date. I am addressing the suggestions from the Progress Party that have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e165	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e168	This is a historic day. A compulsory occupational pension is introduced which contributes to ensuring the many employees in Norway who unfortunately do not have an occupational pension scheme, such an option. It also makes it possible to follow up the agreement on pension reform on which there was a broad consensus in the Stortinge in ours, and which is reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the government's political basis. I think it's worth noting that the Progress Party is the only party that has made it clear that they disagree with the introduction of such a compulsory occupational pension. I think it is reasonable to note that a party that likes to present itself as a representative of the general public, of workers, and takes full account of the economic impact on traders, does not emphasise the need for those who do not currently have an occupational pension scheme to have the opportunity to do so. However, I am all the more pleased that there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that today agrees that such compulsory occupational pension should be introduced. So what is now being introduced is minimum arrangements, minimum requirements. It is up to the parties to agree on plans that are better than that. However, I think there is reason to stress that it is not the intention to weaken the arrangements that already exist today, which are better than the minimum requirements. Unfortunately, we have received several signals that some employers aim to reduce their occupational pension schemes in line with the minimum scheme available here. That's not the intention. On the contrary, the starting point must be that this should be a platform for further work so that better occupational pension schemes can be developed. A key question is how to ensure a reasonable return on pension funds and how to reduce administrative costs so that pensioners benefit as much as possible. I record that it seems that some people are applying to market their offers in order to reduce the administrative costs for the employer. Let me stress what is the assumption in the proposition, that the administrative costs should be added to the deposits and not be charged to the employee's side. I also think there is reason to point out that it is possible for employees and employers to organise occupational pension schemes in such a way that administrative costs are also reduced. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have therefore also followed up the Soria Moria declaration at that point by asking the Government to facilitate non-commercial occupational pension schemes, with the best possible offer to workers and businesses. The objective of introducing a compulsory occupational pension scheme is to ensure pension benefits in addition to social security. The majority of the Committee and also of the Storting assume that the principle starting point must be that all members of the scheme are guaranteed compulsory occupational pensions after the ordinary retirement age of 67 years. Of course, this also applies. seafarers. At the same time, the agreement on pension reform does not say much about the issue of compulsory occupational pension in the private sector in relation to the special age limit. It is important that the Ministry assesses how it is to be dealt with, including whether the parties should be able to agree on payment from an earlier date, and the issue of compulsory occupational retirement provision should be payable over a longer period for workers with a special age limit. These are issues that we believe it is important for the Government to present to the Storting in the revised national budget, so that it is clarified. However, it must always be based on the principle that all members of the scheme are to be guaranteed compulsory occupational retirement provision after the ordinary retirement age of 67 years and that it must also apply to those who have schemes such as: seafarers. There is a need for an overall assessment of the question of occupational retirement provision for self-employed persons. In the majority position of the Financial Committee on pension reform: «Also for those with a voluntary affiliation to a collective occupational pension scheme, greater non-tax treatment must be provided with occupational pension schemes for workers, including the deduction of the contribution to taxable entrepreneurial income.» It may mean that access to deposit-pension schemes is not limited to the minimum limit laid down in the proposal for a compulsory scheme. The majority of the Committee asked the Ministry of Finance to continue its work. It is important that the Government carry out a further review of this issue, including: in view of the fact that the employer and employee of the compulsory scheme may also agree that employees must also pay a contribution or a contribution to the pension scheme. That is why we have asked for a specific assessment of increasing the limit to 4 pst. and for it to be presented in the revised national budget, so that any extension of the scheme can be implemented for 2006. Finally, let me sum up by saying, this is a historic day. The consensus on the pension reform was followed up. We give hundreds of thousands of employees an opportunity to get a occupational pension scheme. It is important that the minimum regime used here is not seen as a norm, but on the contrary that those who have better arrangements retain them. Furthermore, it is important to provide for non-commercial occupational pension schemes that offer the best possible range of services to workers and businesses. The principle principle must be that all members of the scheme are to be guaranteed a compulsory occupational pension after the ordinary retirement age of 67 years. We also need to get an assessment of the question of occupational pension for self-employed people. On this basis, I recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e199	Yes, it's a historic day, and not least it's an important milestone for those about 600,000 people who have no occupational pension scheme in addition to popular security. In the country and municipality there has been compulsory occupational pension for a long time. In the private sector, it has been up to the employee and the employer, where appropriate, to introduce such an occupational pension. In a few weeks' time, compulsory occupational pensions will also be introduced in the private sector. There is an important reform, which is fully in line with the pension agreement between the three former government parties and the Workers' Party and the Centre. With today's decision in Odelstinget, compulsory occupational retirement provision is specified and passed in the form of law, in line with the agreement we had on the pension reform. Now I'm not a follower of the government shift that has happened, but one good thing about it was that the deal we had about retirement became even wider with the government shift and the Soria Moria statement. It is important that there is a broad majority behind this type of reform. In the case of pension issues, there should be a wide range of embedded solutions so that there will be no excessive changes over time. The pension that many will take out in ten – twenty – thirty years will be based on the legislation that is now being adopted. Compulsory occupational retirement provision has for a long time also been a target for many employee organisations. Indirectly, there has also been part of the wage settlement. It is therefore gratifying that there is broad agreement between organisations, both those organising employers and those organising workers, on this reform. It is also an important element in the stability of the system. So about 600,000 new employees will be covered by the system we are adopting today. Not least, this will be important in so-called women's homes and too many low-paid people. Often it is that those with low incomes are also those without occupational pension. In this way, not least, a significant contribution to pension income will be made to many women and low-paid people who would otherwise not receive such additional income. There is also an important gender equality between public and private employees currently taking place through the introduction of such a compulsory occupational pension in the private sector. In contrast to the original proposal, the new law will also cover tax-free enterprises. How many of these are required to set up pension schemes and how many employees will be affected are somewhat uncertain. But for us in the Christian People's Party, it has been very important that employees within this type of enterprise should also be included in the scheme. The scheme is available for employees. It shall not be the organisational form that determines the type of pension scheme to be considered. In the case of self-employed persons, they have access, but no obligation, to establish a pension scheme within the proposed minimum requirements for such schemes. There will also be a closer look at tax incentives to increase the saving of pensions among self-employed people. If you read the papers, you can see that many are preparing for the new reform. We agree with both the NHO and the Minister of Finance in their admonition to providers of occupational retirement provision that their marketing should have a certain degree of satisfaction. I've seen there are a lot of peppercake men and women who are now around in the newspapers to remind us that we are facing a new reform, and I hope that the nakedness of that kind of cake variety will also characterize the marketing. With today's decision, there will be more equitable pension payments in the future, regardless of which sector a job is in, and we will raise more vulnerable groups. This is why this case is a good example of what can be done, when both politicians and social organisations come together to make decisions for the benefit of countries and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e225	At uneven intervals, we are witnessing such things as what is happening today, namely that the rights that have been challenged by the trade union movement to apply to a small part of the employees, then extended to a larger part of the employees, and after it has worked like this for a while, the Grand Duchy in law states that this is something that should apply to all. This can be seen in the history of labour law, in relation to holidays, and has been seen in relation to different rights in different areas. This has previously been the case with the right to a pension. So now we see that this also applies to the right to an occupational pension. And that's very good. It is, as Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and several others have said before, in fact, historically. But it's not torn from history. It goes into a historical continuum, where it is simply ensured that the trade union movement has an important role to play in fighting through important issues. We remember when this happened. There was a payroll settlement for a time back, where a letter was sent to a Prime Minister who responded to this letter, and it was ensured that the entire Stortinget apart from the Progress Party joined this scheme. So the whole thing is for a system like this. So there's a couple of things that I think it's important to point out. There are hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed workers who are now covered by this. These are many of the workers who are basically the worst organized, have the lowest level of organization, and who, therefore, have not, as Peter Gitmark spoke about, exchanged the right to a pension to get a better salary. When I worked at the café over at Youngstorget a few years ago, it wasn't that many of my 25-year-old comrades had an active relationship with their employer-agreed occupational pension. This applies to quite a number of students, young people, all people who work in the kind of industries – service industries, where there is a low level of organisation, and where the focus is simply not on what happens the day you get 67 years old. There are very few 25-year-olds who think about their retirement and possible supplementary pensions. That's why it's so good that we now make sure that this comes into place, even for those who don't think about it and have an active relationship with it, precisely because it's often those who have the lowest income and will thus also work up the worst social security rights through the people's security. Peter Gitmark then spoke of this as being the big difference between the public and the private sector. But I feel like he's bombing a little bit. Supplementary pension is also applicable to large parts of the private sector. That's how it was talked about – there is today a 500,000 – 600 000 that will be covered by this scheme. But that means that very large parts of the well-organised parts of private business already have occupational pension schemes that are good. So I feel that now we make it more flexible between public and private, becomes a small bomb shot. Then there are some objections, and it has also been pointed out that we are going to follow – and we have to follow – this reform further and see how it affects different groups. Apprentices are drawn out as one group, and I see the point of Peter Gitmark compared to that there may be a difference between apprentices of different ages. That's why we have to follow up on this and see how it goes. But at the same time, we must remember that all apprentices have one education and one valuable part in their apprenticeship. That's why they spend a year more than those who just take this at school. So that part of the value creation we think should be rewarded. These people are usually remunerated in the enterprise, in ordinary pay systems, and therefore it is quite natural that they also have the same type of pension rights as others. But that is where we need to keep up with developments. The most important thing for us now was to get this reform in place, and then we have to follow the points in several areas. We need to look at the self-employed. Those who have agreed on a lower retirement age, we need to look at – we need to follow the others, and we need to keep an eye on other parts, which I've been in for, because there may be a lot of things that we discover in retrospect can turn out to be injustices. But we're going to have to do that next time. The most important thing is to get this law passed today and put it in place properly. That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e242	The thing we're dealing with today is a milestone in our retirement history. It is an important matter, which has also been debated by the previous bigotry. So now it's the legal text for the compulsory occupational pension. In the spring 2005 agreement on the pension reform: «Also for those with a voluntary affiliation to a collective occupational pension scheme, greater non-tax treatment must be provided with occupational pension schemes for workers, including the deduction of the taxable entrepreneurial income premium.» The present draft law states: ‘A member’s income for a single year under Section 5-3, first paragraph, points (b), (c) or (d) of the Pensions Act shall not exceed 5 per cent of that member’s salary between 2 G and 6 G and 8 per cent of that member’s salary between 6 G and 12 G. No deposits shall be paid for wages and salaries below 2 G or for wages and salaries above 12 G.» The Ministry uses a minimum deposit requirement set at 2 pst. of a salary of more than 1 G. Pension schemes under the Pension Pensions Act may provide for employees to also pay contributions. This is the result of Sections 5 to 6 of the Pensions Act, and contributions by employees shall not exceed the contributions of the employer nor exceed 4 pst. of wages and salaries. For maritime operators it is said that the Ministry joins the proposal of the Banking Law Commission that ‘access to the pension scheme is restricted up to the minimum limit laid down in the proposal for a compulsory scheme. Reference is made to the proposal for the amendment to Section 2-3 of the Pensions Act, second paragraph, which states that self-employed persons are to be able to set up a scheme, but that the scheme cannot go beyond the minimum requirements of the Act on Compulsory Occupational Pensions Section 4». The attitude of the centre party is that the introduction of compulsory occupational retirement provision in Norway as far as is advisable should cover all, including the country’s 170 000 seafarers. This is a key element in ensuring better pension schemes in general and will be an important complement to the curtailment of the payment of social security payments in the future. We believe it would be natural to equate the possibility for a sea-going trader to operate a tax-motivated provision for a pension with the limits of employee contributions under the Post-Insurance Pensions Act. This gives the seafarer the opportunity to move up to 4 pst. of passenger income between 1 and 12 G. Therefore, we are very pleased that the majority on page 20 of the vote, all except the Advance Party, ‘will make an overall assessment of the issue of occupational pensions for self-employed workers, among others. in view of the fact that the employer and employee of the compulsory scheme may also agree that the employee must also pay a contribution or a contribution to the pension scheme». And we are therefore asking in particular that a specific assessment be given of increasing the limit to 4 pst. and that it be presented in the revised national budget, so that any extended scheme can be implemented for 2006 and therefore for all, both employees and maritime operators. It is important to ensure equal treatment of the possibility for employees and maritime operators to make provision for pensions, so as to give them as much equivalent arrangements as possible. Furthermore, the same majority is in favour of assessing the need for changes in other tax-stimulated pension schemes that relate to both employees and maritime operators. This means that individual schemes such as annuity and individual pension agreements should be reviewed in the light of the fact that we are now receiving tax-stimulated collective occupational pension schemes for all. This would mean that tax incentives for such individual schemes could be reduced. All employees are entitled to a compulsory occupational pension if it is within the conditions laid down by the law we now adopt. The scheme and benefit to be provided to each employee is provided by the Pension for Deposits and the Pensions Act, and the requirements laid down by these two laws must be met. The Committee has stressed that compulsory occupational retirement provision applies to all. However, as many have mentioned, there is uncertainty about how this is to be implemented for occupational groups with special age limits. In a majority comment from the government parties on page 15 of the vote, we ask for an overall review of the theme, including the question of whether the social partners should be able to agree on payment from an earlier date, and the question of compulsory occupational retirement provision should be paid over a longer period for workers with special age limits. Finally, I would just like to refer to the majority of the Committee on Finance's position on the pension notification in May this year that the special age limit in the private and public sectors has to be assessed. Here we have to see a whole, so that we get to the equal treatment that the intention of the whole law is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e270	Today, when we deal with compulsory occupational pension law, it is one of the first important steps towards a new comprehensive pension reform that is regulated. It is a reform which, in the view of the Left, is absolutely necessary for future generations and for the sustainability of the existing system. I do not conceal that the Left in connection with the work of the Pension Commission did not support the model of compulsory occupational pension that we are voting for today. Nevertheless, when we vote as we do today, it is because our principal positions in some areas have had to give way to a broadest possible settlement in the United Kingdom, a settlement for a comprehensive pension reform that can be sustainable over time, in the same way as when today's popularism was established in 1967, where the same parties that are united in today's pension reform were also partners. For the Left, compulsory occupational retirement provision has been an important step in achieving arrangements designed to avoid excessive financial burdens for each enterprise and to ensure flexibility and adaptation to the extent possible within a mandatory scheme. We are pleased that a total number of things are in line with the fact that the scheme is voluntary for self-employed persons. It's been important for the Left. It is also an important signal that the majority asks the Government to make an overall assessment of the issue of occupational pensions for self-employed workers, among others. with a view to establishing a scheme which may be more extensive than the proposed restriction relating to the minimum requirements of the compulsory occupational pension law. For the Left, it is essential that this is resolved quickly, so that it can be applied for 2006. We are therefore in agreement with the majority to ask the Government already in the context of the revised national budget to provide an assessment of increasing the limit of self-employed to 4 pst. I hope that the Government will at the same time present an assessment of the need for changes in other tax-stimulating pension schemes that apply both to self-employed workers and to employees, as requested by the majority. The left is concerned about access in apprenticeship places. It is necessary to work systematically to meet the need for apprenticeships, both through a simpler and more coherent system of grants and economic incentives. A requirement that compulsory occupational retirement provision should also apply to apprentices is a step in the opposite direction and a weakening of the incentives to take in apprentices. The left, together with the Right, is therefore to ask the Government to consider exploiting the regulatory access resulting from § 1 4 of the Act, so that apprentices over 20 years of age are exempted from the provisions. Although the representatives of the government parties do not support our request, this is a reality that we believe the government will have to assess in any case. Many of the hearing bodies have expressed concern over the relatively low threshold set for compulsory occupational retirement provision and that there are some issues that are unclear in the management of pension capital. We therefore ask the Government to clarify these matters in a separate regulation, and further ask for more appropriate solutions to be developed for persons with employment in the individual enterprise who are less than 12 months old, for example. through future payments of pension deposits. I initially said that compulsory occupational pension is part of the big deal about a pension reform The size of the population gathered around in the spring. The left is committed to this agreement and expects the Government – despite signals from individual teams – to stand firm on all elements of the reform, including those parts of the reform that were not as important as compulsory occupational pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15-lower.ana.ud2197e289	The time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. Odelsting will now take a break, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
