ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e45	The Christian People's Party Group has applied for permission from the representative Ola T. Lånke from 26 February to 4 March to take part in the 49th session of the United Nations Commission on Women's Rights in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Tora Husan, is invited to meet from 28 February to 4 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e63	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e66	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I propose to change the model of national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e71	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e74	On behalf of the representative Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I would like to propose that medicinal products for use in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease continue to be prescribed on a blue prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e106	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e117	A great and important work with the aim of preserving part of our unique watercourse nature for our descendants is with this round of supplements at the close. The work started 45 years ago, when the matter was first raised in this room. Protection plan I was dealt with in 1973, then supplemented in 1980, in 1986, in 1993 – and then today. On the part of the Committee, we see this as a finalisation of this extensive work, only in addition to the two watercourses requested by the Committee being included in the plan in accordance with the ordinary consultation procedure. With this, the protective plan will include 393 watercourses that will delight us and future generations with their power, yes their wildness, but also tranquillity, and as a source of eternal harvest, all of this combined is the unique source of recreation that the experience of pristine nature gives. This is a quality of life in itself that we in Norway often take for granted, but which in an increasingly urbanised Europe appears to be exclusive and grand. At the end of this work, I think it's in place to express that I mean politicians before us, and now we, have found a fine balance between expansion and protection that we might be familiar with, to say the least. At the end of the protective plan work, Stortinget has protected watercourse resources with a potential of 45 TWh in total, while we have built up approximately equivalently. 110 TWh provided a normal year. There is still the potential to increase this through upgrading, upgrading and not least the construction of small power plants, but in the light of the fact that we have to admit that the time for excessive, visible natural interference due to hydroelectric power deployments is over. Nor should we forget that we have secured the world's cleanest renewable energy, which can still be improved and supplemented in a very gentle way with today's modern technology. It is therefore gratifying that we are now opening up mini-power plants in sheltered watercourses. This can be done in such a gentle manner today that it does not impair the purpose of protection. In this round, the limit is set to 1 MW installed power, with the exception of the Bjerkreim watercourse, where we enter for 3 MW as the maximum installation. We will thus also have to try out this power installation within a proper regime. A 1 MW power plant with – let's say – 5000 annual operating hours provides enough energy for 200 households and will therefore represent a fine additional industry for many landowners whose conditions are otherwise appropriate. The government parties have been given a majority with the Workers' Party for the protection of 51 new watercourses, most of the watercourses proposed by the Government. The Committee asks the Government to review the national policy guidelines for protected watercourses in order to achieve greater equal treatment in their practice. I would like to stress that the primary purpose of the protection plan is to protect watercourses from power build-up. Therefore, we must – and should – not regard it as a general protection of the land in the entire water catchment area of the watercourse. The protection decision must not be interpreted strictly to the extent that it places significant restrictions on any activity in the area. We got several examples that that was the case, when we were on an inspection in connection with the handling of this matter, perhaps especially in the birch stream and in the Tovdal watercourse. For this reason, I think it is right to point out also from this pulpit that the municipalities must be given the opportunity to plan a reasonable use of the areas around sheltered watercourses, in particular in relation to primary industry development. The national policy guidelines refer to a belt of up to 100 metres on each side of the river where one should avoid interference which could damage the protection values. This need not be understood in absolute terms, but must be applied rationally according to topography and the nature of the measure, in particular to traditional agriculture and forestry, so as not to be harmed by the safeguard decision. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on Energy and the Environment that the national policy guidelines on protected watercourses should be used flexibly and that a high level of respect for local self-government and local land management should be shown in their application. In fact, we do not perceive that the resistance of municipalities to protection is so great in many cases, but rather that the fear of the interpretation and practice of these guidelines by regional planning and environmental authorities is absolute. All parties have been shown to have full confidence between the primary municipalities and regional authorities in this area. As regards the individual watercourses proposed by the Government, there is a majority to take Storelva out in the Skjerdalen in Sogn and Fjordane. The government parties and the Workers' Party also agree to protect the upper part of Little Island in Western Agdes and to take out the lateral part of the Earth Self from the protection of Nærødalselvi in Sogn and Fjordane. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party also agree to ask the Government to uncover the protection of the River Tovdal all the way down to the coast. This protects an intact watercourse, with great watercourse nature from mountain to fjord – in fact the longest in the whole of South Norway, at 150 km. But it is important for me to stress that this does not apply to the lateral watercourse of Uldalsona, which also has its outlet in Herefossfjord, but which is already heavily affected by power expansion. So this lateral watercourse is not included in the protection decision. In addition, there is a majority to ask the Government to ensure the protection of two watercourses that were not included in their original proposal. This applies to the Baltic Sea watercourse in Hordaland and Langvella in Southern Trøndelag. In addition, the majority of the Committee endorses the Government's proposal to protect Nausta in Sogn and Fjordane. However, the majority emphasise that there is a strong sense of the ongoing Nausta multi-use project and the research project ‘Nausta – A Future for the Wilderness’. We hope it will be possible to continue these two projects, so that the ideal goal of developing the salmon strain in the river can be realized even if the river is protected. Furthermore, there is a majority of the Government’s proposal that the Wefsna in Northern Ireland is not included in the protection plan, so that the Government’s ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ project can be continued in an impact assessment, where the possibilities of combining the project with the protection interests are also explored and assessed. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive cooperation on a major issue that is important to many people. It has made the work easier for me as case rapporteur. With the relatively broad majority who are too large a part of the position, I feel confident that we have balanced the consideration that future generations will also experience pristine watercourse nature, while at the same time focusing on the balance of forces and respect for local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e158	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his good cooperation in this matter on the Verne Plan for Watercourses. In the Workers' Party, we believe that the project «Possibilities Helgeland» is interesting. However, in this treatment of the protection plan, we have not taken a decision on what is going to happen to Wefsna in Northern Ireland. Only when there is an application for a concession can a consistent watercourse. If not, it won't be consequences to investigate. I am convinced that «Possibilities of Helgeland» will be an exciting project, and I record that the case-rapporteur, from the Right Party of Government, believes the same thing on the Right's website as what he now said here in the Chamber. In the Workers' Party we are pleased with that clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e165	I don't know if I saw any question in the line. Nevertheless, it gives me the opportunity to share Klungland's view of and interest in what «Possibilities of Helgeland» can give, and for us to have an impact assessment that hopefully will also show us that we can move forward towards a concession request within the framework I mentioned in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e172	The right likes to present itself as a party that will promote industrial development, protect ownership and develop municipal autonomy. There was also Halleraker inside his post. I have lighted with light and light in the setting, but there I find nothing about this from the Right, rather on the contrary. Local self-government and ownership are completely out of the question, and business interests are completely out of the question. And like so many times before in this great period, we see that the Right Allies are with the Socialist Left Party. Is the Right and Halleraker comfortable with the situation, where the party program is out of play for the benefit of cooperation with the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e179	I am pleased that Mr. Vaksdal emphasises that the Right always stands guard over ownership. And we're still going to do that. It is, however, that in the Right Programme, which the representative, Mr Vaksdal, cannot have read very carefully, there is also a great deal about the importance of taking care of our unique nature for future generations. It also says that we believe that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants is over, especially where it involves major intervention. I want to draw an example, because Waksdal says we're not listening. Storelva in Sogn and Fjordane have worked to withdraw from the list and have received support for it in the Government. I also register a broad support for this in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e186	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work, not for the cooperation, because I have not seen anything about it. He has negotiated with SV's portfolio in return, but chose to go to the Labour Party. SV believed that a government consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, might have gone to the protection party SV to ensure a greater and better protection, not least to be able to attract the tissue, which is so important. But they chose the Labour Party, which was the starting point for negotiating the number of protected rivers. Now SV was able to prevent any of this through the plurality that was already there. That's what I want to do. So I want to ask, when we're going to have a limit of 1 MW in protected watercourses and 3 MW in Bjerkreim, how will the government ensure that 3 MW in Bjerkreim doesn't create precedent in relation to other protected watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e193	My job as a representative of the government parties is to get through the government's policy. I think that is very much what we have achieved, with very few exceptions, through the agreement we have with the Workers' Party. For those who read the setting, it would be quite obvious that it would be quite hopeless to get something similar to SV. They wanted to add nine new watercourses to the plan. With regard to the 1 MW and 3 MW limit, this in itself is a pleasant relaxation of the legislation we have had so far. I have great expectations of how this is going to be practiced around the country. That we now also have the opportunity to try out 3 MW in the birch stream, I think it is very positive. It will face the challenge of actors that this too must be done in a gentle manner in a protected watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e200	The word change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e204	Let me start my post again and make it clear that I believe there has been a good and constructive cooperation in this matter. The Workers' Party has placed great emphasis on achieving the widest possible political platform once we have addressed the supplementation of the Protection Plan for Watercourses. We believe that the results currently available are acceptable from the policy options that existed when the Committee started its work. Norway is an energy nation. Over the last century, many of our predecessors developed energy, industry and well-being that led to the society we have today – a society in the country that the United Nations has assigned to one of the world's best countries to live in for most. These forward-looking politicians built society on the exploitation of hydropower. It was a time when Norway didn't have the wealth that we have today. There were jobs and developments that were the idea behind the decisions that were taken. This, of course, meant that many watercourses were developed, with some major interference in nature. Today we are in a new era. We're at a time when the hydropower is essentially expanded, and we can no longer save ourselves from providing enough energy just with water. We have to find other solutions, we have to think about something new. The Labour Party regrets that we have no longer come here to think alternatively. Still, the idea is that imports of coal power are less polluting than the energy we can produce here in Norway. This seems to be absent from the political debate we have in the energy sector. Watercourse development, as mentioned above, has led to the expansion of many watercourses in Norway. The working party believes it is important to leave some watercourses almost untouched for our descendants. Therefore, it was, and is, the Workers' Party that has taken the initiative in watercourse protection in Norway. Also, supplementing the protection plan, which we are dealing with today, is the Workers' Party that has taken the initiative, without it appearing that anyone has perceived or is concerned about it in the process that has taken place. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that we have improved the Government's proposal, and we are pleased that we have achieved improvements in relation to the practice of watercourse protection. Almost all municipalities affected by the protection decisions have noted the problem of the 100-meter belt practice in relation to the county councillors. In the Workers' Party, we are therefore pleased that such a broad majority together with us wants to clarify that the practice should be based on local participation. Some statesmen have obviously gone too far in the practice of national policy guidelines and watercourse protection. We are also pleased that the majority of the committee proposes that the Tovdal rivercourse in East Agder, the Øystese rivercourse in Hordaland and Langvella in South Trondelag be proposed for protection. Of course, this should be done after regular consultation and local involvement. We are also pleased with the changes we have made where the protection proposal is not necessary or hampers the development of the community. We're going to have respect for the fact that protective decisions can be dramatic for them. We cannot reject local reactions where local democracy has used all legal means to prevent individual decisions that seem dramatic. In this context, we in the Workers' Party regret that watercourses are included in the protection plan without any interested parties being heard or given the opportunity to comment on the protection decision that is being taken today. We record that the government parties will not carry out an ordinary treatment of the watercourses Vaulo m/Langfossen and Saltåna as well as the Åbodal watercourse before the protection decision is taken, but we take note of that. However, we need to point out that this is wrong, and that some parties in this context must have conscientious qualms in relation to the principle of local democracy and local participation. As late as last night, I received a letter from a landowner in Sauda. He is frustrated by the protection decision that will be taken here today. The chairperson of the Committee has taken heavy responsibility when he has sent letters of reply to this person where he writes: «In spite of your disagreement with the opinion of the Committee on this matter, I thank you for your enquiry. It gives me the opportunity to state that the government's proposal has been subject to thorough consideration, first by the government, then by the committee. The public watercourse is a genuine watercourse that deserves protection status. The values in the watercourse provide natural protection. I take note and respect that you have a different view from me, party colleagues, government members, SV and AP." Without considering the nature of the watercourse, I would like to ask that colleagues at Stortinget add to the Workers' Party or to myself opinions that we do not have. On the contrary, we have written the following in the setting: ‘The Working Party and the Centre Party refer to the fact that the Åbodal Watercourse has not been subject to an assessment in the work of the Protection Plan, but has been proposed to protect it in the light of the fact that the watercourses were not adopted in connection with the treatment of the Sauda extension, as stated. Inner. [[2002-2003]] S. No 274 In the Labour Party, we have noticed that government parties do not take local democracy seriously. But we're not making any comments for fun. I therefore assume that the chairman of the committee will send a new letter to this person where the error will be corrected. Let me finally talk about more central things. Weaving is not now included in the protective plan. For us, it may seem that someone thinks that the tissue should be destroyed. Of course, it doesn't have any truth either. If someone takes the environment seriously, it's the Working Party. We see the relationship between environment and use. Therefore, we believe that «Facilities of Helgeland» is an interesting project. Only when there is an application for a concession can the impact assessment begin. If not, there are no consequences to investigate. I am convinced that «Possibilities of Helgeland» will be an exciting project. Now we have to wait and see what that means. The working party believed and believed that the multi-use project in Nausta was also a project to build on. We regret the fact that the majority of the Storting did not have the same vision. When we do not vote against including Nausta in the protection plan, it is because we want the widest possible political majority for what we are about to adopt today. In matters of such importance, we believe that the widest possible majority in this House is very important. The working party is not a marking party, but a movement of reality. We don't need to mark our position in terms of being downgraded here in the hall. We realize that this time, Nausta was protected. But we hope, as the rapporteur said, that the department will follow up on this in order to continue the work that is at local level. Basically, we didn't want to bring in Nausta now, but to equate it with what's going to happen in the Web. We believe that the Workers' Party has achieved a better protection than the Government has provided, and we are proud of that. The Workers' Party is to trust in maintaining the overall picture of environmental issues and in relation to local democracy. I would therefore like to support the rapporteur's investigation here in relation to the lateral line in Tovdalselva and assume that the department will take such consideration in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e254	The working party has also shown in this case, as in the case of gas, for example, that the lot cannot fully agree with itself. According to an NTB message on Monday, the day before delivery, the Workers' Party spokesman, Rolf Terje Klungland, said that he is an opponent of protection in Nausta. The same Klungland repeats the same in an interview with NRK Dagsrevyen at 0 p.m. 11 on the lion's tray Tuesday, a few hours before delivery. And then he makes the very opposite when the case is dismissed, and here today. The same double communication has been carried out by the Workers' Party elsewhere, for example in Sauda – a place where the representative himself was present. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Klungland and the Workers' Party about energy policy has become so little important and so uninteresting for the party that this is now decided from day to day, entirely according to the bingo principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e263	One shall listen to the Progress Party in the case of double communication, for there they have real experience. The Progress Party is therefore in favour of DKK 10 billion for research, but they are voting against it here in the Chamber. They're for $5 billion for gas pipes, but they're against. They want to remove the electricity charge, but they're voting for the electricity charge. They're against the high level of fines, but they vote for high fines. As regards the watercourse proposition, the Progress Party knew about the Government's position before it was introduced here. Nevertheless, they ensured that the government was still in power. So in the case of double communication, I believe that the Progress Party can go and hang itself in the wall. Otherwise, we in the Working Party are concerned with the energy balance. We show that through our policies and the proposals for decisions that we actually get the majority for here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e272	I found the Workers' Party, through the treatment of the protection plan, to be able to make use of some of their potential for improvement in nature and the environment, by now agreeing to some of the things that they initially wanted to negotiate – so they should have. And then I want to grab a little bit of what Klungland takes up, this with the force balance, that there's a power shortage, that one imports coal power, etc. – based on the fact that there is not enough power for the industry. There is a starting point to which SV is not negative, but there are other solutions than to build up Web, to which the representative suggests that the Labour Party will do the next round. So there's a package of 20 TWh, like SV, for example. has come forward that does not pollute and does not destroy nature. What's my job on that package? Finally, Stoltenberg has said that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants is over. The question to Klungland is: Is the tissue a little watercourse?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e281	I'll start with the last one, because as I explained in my post, Wefsna is a big watercourse. But there is no application for development, so I can't say that you can stop a large extension of the tissue. So there has to be an application, and then we have to look at the consequences it has with regard to the Wefsna. As for the Socialist Left Party and the willingness to negotiate in the Committee, and to boast that the Labour Party had shown a willingness to negotiate, I am pleased with that. I regret that SV has not shown the same goodwill and interest in reaching a majority. With regard to the package of 20 TWh from SV, I am absolutely sure that, after the autumn's choice, we will have an excellent opportunity to continue to investigate what the costs will be by expanding such alternative energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e290	Actually, it was the Right that should have this line, but since a direct enquiry was made to me in a strange way, I feel the need to take that line instead. Now it is true that when we committee members receive letters, we respond to letters and do so in a proper and polite manner. If the person who reads this letter is not very happy that we are saying what is true, namely that the Workers' Party is behind the setting also in relation to what is attached to Saudi and Turkotalen, he must in case he confirms it now from Stortingen's pulpit if he does not support the setting. Can Klungland at the same time clarify the willingness of the Workers' Party to participate in the protection of the Nausta and the Åbodal River? Did it come as a consequence of a demand from the government parties? Or was it a voluntary initiative from the Workers' Party itself? I think it might be useful to know, because we suddenly got a suspicion that this happened as a result of a pressure from the government parties, which I didn't realize it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e299	I do not know what gifts the committee's chairman has received from the Lord of Spring, but it is certainly clear that he has received the gift of fear to a considerable extent. First, I want to say that when it comes to writing letters, I fully agree that the committee leader can write letters on what his party stands for. But bringing people behind the light by making false statements about other parties that you can't read from the setting, is going to be totally wrong, and that means that a certain kind of distrust of such a thing. That's why I felt a need to take it up here today. We in the Workers' Party believed this should have been at the hearing before it was sent out. We thought that the Nausta and the Åbodal watercourse should not be included in this round, but we realize that in this room it is the power that prevails.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e308	The President would point out that mentioning other representatives and their rudeness, or lack of such, is probably not part of the parliamentary language. Besides, I don't think the Stortinget is allowed to consider the gifts given. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e313	Today we are once again experiencing that the majority of the Storting dances after the so-called environmental protection pipe and introduces a comprehensive state and almost irreversible protection of a number of watercourses. Today we are once again demonstrated that local democracy is completely out of play, and we are once again seeing that all the celebrations and election campaigns of a living local democracy are nothing but fluttering and empty talk. Of course, it is important that both present and future generations have the opportunity to experience pristine nature and rivers flowing in their natural course. However, we are sceptical that national policy decisions on protection are the only way to ensure the nature of the future. We have already seen too many examples of areas being protected by central authorities, for major protests by local people, landowners and organisations. We in the Progress Party have always taken a restrictive position on the protection of new areas, and we will continue this line. We would therefore say no to all new protection proposals on a principle basis, with the main reason that this is an overarching of local democracy. Of course, local authorities may, if they so wish, adopt the protection of areas after local treatment, preferably based on the NVE’s setting. We believe, however, that if a watercourse is to be protected, the protection must apply to the main string of the watercourse and, where appropriate, specified side rivers, nothing more than that. In our opinion, it is wrong to bind large areas on a general basis. We in the Progress Party are committed to facilitating local business development also in outlying areas, in particular based on natural resources. Many local communities concerned regard the protection plan as a general area protection. We believe that there should be great respect for local self-government and local land management, not only in celebrations, but also in practice. We therefore propose that national policy guidelines on protected watercourses should be reviewed, with clearer clarification in relation to the purpose and scope of protection. The Progress Party also wants to facilitate the establishment of mini-power plants in Norway and supports the proposal to raise the limit for projects to be addressed in the overall planning process from 1 MW to 10 MW of installed power or an annual production of up to 50 GWh. This is fully in line with the views of the Progress Party and previous proposals. These changes will include both traditional small-scale power plants treated under the Water Resource Act, as well as regulations and transfers dealt with under the Waterways Regulatory Act. Such simplifications make it easier for landowners to establish small hydropower plants, and there is reason to recall the great interest in expanding mini-, micro- and small-scale power plants, which will make valuable contributions to the Norwegian power balance and significantly distribute power to some places. The Progress Party also supports the possibility of building mini- and micro-power plants in sheltered watercourses, but believes that this possibility should be made as liberal as possible, to a large extent as a local policy assessment. The Government has proposed that power plants of less than 1 MW be eligible for concession treatment, with the exception of the Bjerkreim watercourse, where a limit of 3 MW is proposed. The Progress Party is currently proposing a general limit of 3 MW in sheltered watercourses. In addition, we propose to ask the Government to develop different models to allow for concessional treatment in sheltered watercourses, based on the leaching capacity of the watercourse in addition to a megawatt limit. This is, of course, proposed in view of the fact that the size of the watercourses is different, which may give unfortunate results in some places if only a megawatt limit is applied. In our opinion, therefore, in some cases a percentage of the leaching capacity has to be taken into account. This can be done, for example, by considering a higher percentage of what is more than the mean water flow in the watercourse, or alternatively a smaller part of the mean water flow as an alternative to a megawatt limit. The handling of this case has been special. There has been a widespread exercise for some to say one thing in the media to the interested parties, in the next moment to make the sting the opposite. I have received a number of enquiries that indicate this. For example, if you look at media postings this past week, you can see again that the Workers' Party is changing its mind not only from day to day, but from hour to hour, even though Klungland's representative obviously didn't like to hear this today. This case has also shown that the majority of the population does not care much about either ownership, industrial development or local self-government. But this time, too, it is the symbolism policy that overshadows everything. It will be my pleasure to remember this in the upcoming election campaign. The Party opposes the extension of the protection plan in its entirety. We will allow concession treatment in sheltered watercourses with a general limit of 3 MW, or alternatively based on the leaching capacity of the watercourse, and we will return the national policy guidelines to make them more liberal and to clarify the scope and scope of protection. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e337	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e342	The party of progress is accused of being a populist party, and I end up with that analysis. With regard to protection, which is the subject here today, the fundamental, populist and political attitude of the Progress Party is that we are opposed. We are opposed to the protection of the landscape, the protection of the land and the protection of the coast and the sea, and now also against protection in this matter today. Waksdal says that the majority of Storting dances after the environmental protection organisations' pipe. This is what Mr. Waksdal would like to say. We can have a debate on that later, it is not time in a row. But it could be good to hear who his pipe is dancing after? Is it after the gallop's pipe? The party of progress is out for power, the party of progress is out for government. The question is: If the party of progress comes into government position before or after the autumn elections, will they reconsider the proposals that have been adopted? And, will the Party of Advancement lift protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e351	The answer to the last one is simple, that's yes. We're accused of being a populist party. We obviously don't dance for the environmental protection pipe, according to Hansen's own statement, and he asks who his pipe we're dancing for. We dance after the voters' pipe – the voters, who have chosen us on a program where we have to respect ownership, business interests and local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e356	The progress part is occupied by the power balance, as usual, and thinks that if one gets to build several rivers, he will be better, as well as that one wants to build gas power plants, gas pipelines and a little bit of a quarter. What surprises SV when it comes to the power balance debate is just the passivity you see from the Progress Party with regard to achieving different projects in budgetary settlements, e.g. this with a gas pipe and this with gas power. Never place any emphasis on it on the Progress Party in budgetary conciliation. National Geographic has Norway and Norwegian fjords and rivers to the world's most beautiful destinations. Travel businesses say that there is a high potential for economic development here. Does the Progress Party think that those who will come to Norway will see Norwegian nature, or will they see pipe holes, high pendulum lines, concrete dams and all the other things that one now wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e363	It is right, as the representative of Langeland says, that we are concerned with the balance of forces, and that we both want more hydropower development and more gas generation. Although the representative of Langeland obviously has not received this, we have made a number of proposals during this process. I can make sure Langeland gets more. In the case of Norwegian nature, Langeland asks if it should not be preserved and whether we should not show it instead of pipelines. Then I owe it to the representative Langeland that this is not how you build hydropower today. Today all this is hidden. It must soon take Langeland inwards. Today, scarcely a person can see an expansion of hydropower, because it goes in tunnels inside the mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e370	Co-operation governance and a large number of majorities take the climate and environmental challenges seriously, and we will lead an active environmental and protection policy for our generation and future generations. That is why we are putting the precautionary principle on the basis of our policies and our political work. The party of progress stands out brightly. Rather than taking over the serious climate change that results from man-made pollution, the party of progress is talking about the consequences of volcanic eruptions. The Party of Progress refers to protective measures as ‘irreversible protection’ with negative signs. The party considers the protection of the landscape to be insignificant, and the party cannot see the value of protecting watercourses against degradation and drying. The question will be answered as follows: Does the Advance Party feel any responsibility for future relatives? And what do the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Waksdal, put into action the principle of var-
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e379	The representative, Mr Liones, pointed out that the Progress Party is largely opposed to the rest of this House in terms of environmental policy, and not least climate policy. But at least we're doing a little bit of effort to get better at what's going on with climate change. We organized a seminar on this with the Socialist Left a few days ago. I did not see if the representative Liones was present, but he should have been – he was obviously present. All the nuances that are in this debate came out. Of course, the Progress Party takes responsibility for future generations, but that's exactly why we want to get into this issue thoroughly before we take a stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e389	I take up SV's proposals, proposals that mean that there would have been the protection of 70 more unique watercourses in Norway. They would be protected for future generations. Then one would also protect the last great river, that is, the weaver, if SV had got his will. Former Prime Minister Stoltenberg said on the TV in a New Year's speech that the era of large hydroelectric expansion is over. Bondevik II says in the Sem Declaration about the same thing: ‘In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive attitude towards further watercourse development and that we leave the vast majority of the watercourses left untouched.’ This has many joys for, but the biscuit has been there, first with a power-socialist expansion in Saudi Arabia, among other things. Lingvangsfossen and Maldalsfossen were joined by the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. So today, there is a possibility to show that the Stoltenberg and Sem statements say in relation to the epoch that large watercourse expansions are over, debt. You choose not to do this, so the biscuit becomes permanent. SV is now alone on the environmental movement's side to protect the tissue, the last large watercourse. I'm sorry, and today we're a little uncertain about the fate of this great river in the future. There has been a strange process in relation to the treatment in Stortinget. SV has wanted to improve the protection plan by including several rivers, but also to ensure the multi-annual rule of what they have submitted. Nevertheless, the Government with the Left and Christian People's Party in the portfolio has gone to a party that wants to take out several watercourses – in a negative direction in terms of protection, instead of a positive one. This is strange, but we are still happy to have been used to push the Labour Party into place, so that a protective plan is provided – because today we have a protective plan attached, although the level of ambition is too low compared to the SV wanting to protect 70 more watercourses. A few days ago, we had a visit by a delegation from Naustdal – just minus SV, because they were not invited. They were here to drive forward an expansion of Nausta. Some of the reasons why you get this pressure from many municipalities are the municipal economy. The municipalities are tired and lopsided. The right-hand government is giving them little money. They need to find ways to get money, and then they're going to build power, they're going to build power plants, they're going to have alternatives to getting income. In this way one might say that SV takes part of the political opponents in the municipalities seriously, and takes them a little in defence as well, because they become compulsive because of a disorder when it comes to the local economy. We understand that local politicians think that they need to secure well-being, to secure schooling, to ensure the provision of services for citizens, and then they need more money. So there's an understanding of this from SV's side – but of course SV is very happy that Nausta is being protected today. It's really a great river. And now, the spokesman and local politicians in the societies that are now being protected must make protection a success factor. There is now the challenge, here is also the challenge of this growth, to make sure to contribute to it. National Geographic, therefore, has Norwegian fjords, Norwegian rivers and Norwegian nature to the world's finest destinations. Travel companies say that there is an extremely good potential here if a bet on developing this, and this is where we now have to take responsibility in this room. It's actually just that in relation to the Web, there's a potential of 50 million. kr a year in the area doing something real out of travel life, outdoor life and salmon fishing. Here we have to take responsibility. We have to have more power to the industry, we have to have impure gas power, we have to put rivers in pipes or tunnels, there's a lot of it in this room. SV has a package that can organize the power balance, at 20 TWh, which doesn't pollute, that creates jobs and makes us use the energy more efficiently. Had we managed to get more focus on it, one would also have had a greater chance of protecting more. We note that interest is present – and I hear that the Workers' Party signals a positive interest in September, so at least then there is hope, I understand. The Storting majority are making a big mistake today. One facilitates an enormous lobbying in the future. One should try to make all layers, and it is, as I said, difficult, no one can, according to the vocabulary. So what a do is to give the Christian People's Party a indulgence when it's about the birch stream, saying that normally a concessional opening with an effect of up to 1 MW in all protected watercourses, but that's an exception for the birch stream, where there's a possibility of 3 MW – and the greater the intervention. This is discriminatory. It is not the same treatment as SV would like it to be relative to the protected other watercourses. The Small Powers Association has already said at the hearing, which everyone in the Committee on Energy and the Environment heard, that if a 3 MW permit for the Bjerkreim watercourse, it will of course be pressed to get it in all other protected watercourses as well. So here's a major challenge in the context of what the majority are doing today. We are disappointed that the Workers' Party returned to its primary position of 1 MW and backed the proposal of 3 MW for the Bjerkreim River, with the consequences that will result from this. There are so many plans for small-scale power plants in the whole country – some municipalities in Rogaland have up to 40 plans for this – that now one must find ways to limit their development. 1 MW of protected watercourses may have bituminous rain for it. SV obviously believes that we have a moral obligation to take care of the watercourse of future generations. And when, as environmentalists and SV have pointed out for years, it is possible to make the protection argument a salsa argument, that we can actually ensure that Norwegian nature becomes even more attractive through a protection, it is what we must focus on when it concerns jobs in travel, cultural landscapes and the values of fishing and tourism. This is the potential. Unregulated nature is a defect that will rise in value every single day if one does the right thing. People don't travel, as the Progress Party was about to do, to look at dry riverbeds or to fish in empty watercourses. They travel to see and use pristine nature, and that is what we need to address in a completely different way than we do today, both by stimulating municipalities through a better economy in this area and by making sure to practice that potential locally and centrally. SV is pleased that several watercourses are being protected today. But when SV becomes all about protecting the web and 70 other watercourses that represent a unique Norwegian nature, we will not, however, do as left-wing people do today, eat wet cake and drink champagne. We wait until we get a proper protection in Norway. SV must be enabled in the future. I think I took the suggestions instead, but I can do it once more, to be sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e421	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has at least taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e427	Does SV mean that not protecting is the same as expanding? I want to try to draw a picture. If one sits in a lumber keg as a tourist, and there runs a river past that lumber keg, does it have any greater environmental value that the Stortinget has said it is protected? Or is it that when the eleven run by and are untouched, the eleven are untouched? I have to say that I am not quite able to grasp SV's argument here in relation to the Wefsna. We say we have to have an impact assessment before we do anything about Wefsna. Eleven will run there. When there is a concession request, we are given the opportunity to decide on it in relation to local democracy and what is happening there. Why does SV not care about the communities that are affected or have an interest in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e436	SV really cares about the communities that are affected by protection. I tried to make it a major point in my article that we have to make sure that protection becomes a value as a developer and makes it a real travel product, as more and more people do now. In addition, the representative knows very well that the SV in the lake and the Wefsn area is too protective, because they see this potential. And there's a lot of other parties that don't know, but there's a line here that Nausta has. SV provides protection locally and provides protection centrally. And thank you for that. In relation to tissue and expansion: the birch-cream line thus protects the Workers' Party. That's great. But the other great, Wefsna, they can't be there to protect, because then you have to wait and wait for the consequences, etc. I don't understand the meaning. If one thinks what Stoltenberg has said that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants is over, then one has to show it in a concrete way. If not, only empty words will be spoken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e445	The representative, Langeland, is very committed to this matter. But I want to remind him that it is actually a protective matter we are dealing with today, not an extension matter. The representative is committed to protection. I would like to quote a comment that the Socialist Left has in this matter, where they ‘shows that the nature protection organisations in an article in the VG on 26 June 2004 believe that economic development based on nature protection can generate annual revenues up to 50 million. crowns and many permanent jobs only for the Wefsna watercourse’. Then I would like to ask the representative Langeland if he thinks that an article in the VG from the nature protection organisations is so despicable that it should be included in a big paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e457	I have to thank you for the good line, which I would like to see at more times. Of course, I would have liked better if it were in the class struggle, to say it like that. The point is that there are environmental movements that wrote this, and they have gone through the possibilities of Wefsna, for example. in cooperation with the tourism businesses. That's where I think the challenges to the government party lie. How are we to ensure that the potential is developed through the protection that one should enjoy in the Web, as SV does today? What kind of potential is there, and how are we going to make sure that the different municipalities in the areas where it is being protected actually exploit this potential? It's the meaning of that quote. Right-people don't get it? I'm used to right-wing people doing business, but in this case it looks like SV is doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e464	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e467	The addition of the Protection Plan for Watercourses has been given great attention. Many different views and interests have opposed each other — environmental organisations, landowners, municipalities and county councils. It has therefore been a major challenge to ensure good majority solutions both in terms of the more fundamental aspects of the proposition presented by the Government and in relation to the individual watercourses. There is therefore reason to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, and the parties that have contributed constructively to the suspension as it exists today. The protection plan for watercourses has been adopted in four stages, the first in 1973. 341 watercourses are currently protected, with a total power potential of 36,5 TWh. In the proposal to supplement the Watercourse Protection Plan, the Government proposes the protection of the corresponding additional 7 TWh per. years. The government takes seriously that the time period for the large hydropower projects is over. That means that we can't count on many major watercourse expansions in the future. The purpose of this and the desire to preserve our unique nature for future generations form the basis of the Government's extensive commitment to the protection of new watercourses. It is therefore appropriate to focus on new renewable energy carriers, the modernisation of existing hydroelectric power plants and more use of natural gas in an environmentally sound way in response to the challenges related to the power deficit. The government therefore has ambitious objectives in this area up to 2012, mainly channelled through the company Enova. For the Government and the Christian People's Party, protection is consistent with good environmental policies. There are unfortunately some, even in this hall, who believe that running and untouched watercourses are a udder. It is therefore important to underline the intrinsic value of watercourses and unique nature for experiences, outdoors and recreation. I am therefore pleased that a large majority today are behind the main lines of the Government's proposal to supplement watercourse protection. The Committee has carried out a good review of the proposal for supplementing the protection against watercourses. Among other things, there have been visits to some of the most controversial watercourses known from the public debate, and the open consultation we have held in the past has provided the Committee with a good basis for decision. As far as possible, everyone has been heard in my opinion, and different views have emerged through this process. For some watercourses there is a great deal of agreement on protection, while others have been subject to great disunity, partly strong resistance. However, it seems to me that much of the resistance that has come is based on uncertainty about surrounding areas and their use. Of course, there is reason to take this concern seriously, and the timing therefore clarifies the need for a review of the national policy guidelines on watercourse protection in order to clarify the limitations and possibilities of protection for the use of the adjacent surface of the watercourse. It has been claimed that the guidelines are being applied too rigorously, and not least differently, from state to state. It is therefore necessary to clarify the ways in which the guidelines are to be understood in order to counteract interpretations which can be perceived as fragmented and unfair. The majority therefore support the Government’s clarification in the proposition that the protection should not be interpreted so strictly as to place significant restrictions on any type of activity in the protection area and that the protection initially relates to power development. Thus, despite protection, there is still the possibility for different establishments in relation to the surrounding areas of the watercourse, not least the usual agricultural activity. However, national policy guidelines have a bearing on how to manage these areas. Although the protection is primarily intended to ensure the watercourse against power build-up, adjacent areas will often have an impact on the protection values taken together. It must therefore be emphasised that national policy guidelines are a good and important instrument and tool for municipalities in their planning work in relation to the Law on Planning and Building along sheltered watercourses. The national policy guidelines shall ensure that the total protection values in and around the watercourse are not impaired. Experience with the practice of national policy guidelines has varied. In examining this matter within the Committee, it has also emerged that many have not experienced them as problematic. The majority therefore do not consider that there is a need for major changes to the guidelines, but for an evaluation with a view to clarifying how they should be understood, in order to ensure the most equal use from municipality to municipality and from county to county. This is in line with the wishes of several teams who have arrived at the Committee during the examination of this matter. Micro, mini and small power plants represent a significant potential for power. Therefore, a greater opening for their development is an important part of the Government’s power balance strategy. Therefore, better provision is made for local actors and power companies to make greater use of this possibility of more self-produced power. Many communities and landowners have accepted the Government's approach to simplified treatment of this type of power plant. The importance of increased value creation and additional income for landowners is important in this context. The proposal for supplementing the Verne Watercourse Plan opens up so that smaller power plants can also be built in them, following further impact assessments in relation to the protection. The Government facilitates expansions up to 1 MW as a general ceiling. The proposal in the proposal corresponds to what the government parties, together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party, said in the setting of the additional climate notification, Innst. S. No 240 for 2001-2002. I'm not going to go very deeply into the individual watercourses in my article, but I'll be glad to say that the Government essentially gets a majority for its proposals. Some adjustments have been made. Two watercourses have been taken out of the protective plan in whole or in part, while three processes are proposed for future protection. I am also pleased that the government has announced that it will come back to Stortinget with its own case about Wefsna, and we will thus have a full discussion of this watercourse when the time comes. In addition to this, my party colleague Ingmar Liones in a later article will focus more strongly on the individual watercourses. The centre party has proposed in Document No. 8:14 the introduction of a temporary stop in protective measures in view of the desire to see the consequences of protection in relation to residence and industrial development. Let me say that for my own part I cannot see that there is a need for such a proposal. On the other hand, it can help to ensure that valuable areas and watercourses can be lost in an necessarily long-term process that would result in a protective break. I do not believe that the pace of protection policy is primarily the problem, but rather that many feel that the processes towards protection have not been satisfactory. It is important to ensure good processes in which all stakeholders are given the opportunity to express their views. I am sure that the Government will take good care of this. The protection plan for watercourses has been based on a previous decision in Stortinget that such a plan would be submitted, and I therefore expect the Senterpartiet not to believe that any protective break would include the matter that we are discussing today. Let me conclude by saying that this is a matter that naturally triggers a great commitment from many teams. Local communities and environmental organisations have been addressed. There is one issue where overall national considerations may conflict with local interests. It's the same in other cases. I believe that those who are now affected by the protection in their watercourses will in the long term see the opportunities offered by a protection, and that it will in fact also lead to positive ringing effects for the community to have a protected watercourse. Finally, I would like to thank the Labour Party for its constructive cooperation. I would also like to thank the SV and the Centre for some varying support, which together secures the main lines contained in the Government's proposal to supplement the Verne Plan for Watercourses. So I just have to say that under a previous post here today, I suddenly became a little uncertain about whether those who stand behind the majority actually do. But I expect the Workers' Party will vote as they have signaled in the setting that they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e508	I have a line for the representative Rahm. The Workers' Party supports what has been presented today in the majority position, including that of the Bjerkreimsträg, but I would like to ask Ramm about the Bjerkreimsträg. This is a special case, because here one deviates from the 1 MW limit. They say it's allowed with 3 MW in the birch watercourse. Then I have to ask Rahm: what is the rationale seen by Rahm and the Christian People's Party in order to extend the limit from 1 MW to 3 MW only in this watercourse when, in the majority position, as the Workers' Party also stands behind, it says that ‘the protection values of the watercourse must in any case not be impaired’? Can the representative Rahm define this more clearly than what is in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e517	Of course, I am pleased that the representative Nordtun is now clarifying and clarifying that it is actually behind the setting that exists, both in relation to Bjerkreim and in relation to Nausta. I think that's a nice preparation. So this is brought out of the world. In my answer to the birch stream, I would like to say that this is a watercourse that is quite unique – in many ways. There has been a significant commitment to this watercourse on the part of local interests, and I refer to it as the case rapporteur clearly explained about exactly these 3 MW in terms of birch cream: Of all those protected, birch cream is one we extract, and the experience we can draw from such a project related to birch cream could give us a clear indication of how this turns out in watercourses later on. I therefore think that this can also be a good reason for choosing a watercourse to look at the power of 3 MW versus 1 MW. I want to support the proposal contained in the proposition, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party is also behind the main lines of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e526	In the debate on the protection of rivers and rivers, I just want to take advantage of the opportunity to refer to two protected rivers, Altaelva and Målselva. It crawls with life along these rivers, both in the form of open air life and in the form of fish. Although these rivers have been regulated, they are not gone. The salmon is also not gone, perhaps except sometimes when you are trying to fish it. So despite the expansion that has taken place in these watercourses, you can take care of the value creation. And just to mention it, the ni-hour in the NRK has had the condition of the national fox in Norway. It was cut in Målselv. Thus, the target-self-fossen is the national fossen in Norway, and it is in a regulated watercourse. So this debate becomes a little black-and-white. The representative, Rahm, was about to take care of the nature of future generations. Why does the representative Rahm not want to take care of today’s generations, take care of local democracy and facilitate the creation of value in the districts that benefit both peoples and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e535	It was interesting to hear how Korsberg described the possibilities of getting fish in the Altava stretch: the fish was gone when you were going to have it, when you were fishing, and then it was back when you weren't going to fish it. It's perhaps an experience Korsberg has had. I've always done the opposite experience, that the fish is there when I'm actually going to fish it! As for the Altava stretch, I might think that those who in their time were the strongest in expanding this watercourse, have come in more doubt in retrospect. We have registered that from several teams. It's been said that if we knew what we know today, we wouldn't have built out the Altava stretch. It does not necessarily have direct relevance to the protection issue, but it has more relevance to the debate on force. As far as local democracy is concerned, it will always be the case – and Korsberg knows very well – that some supranational considerations sometimes run counter to local interests. For the Progress Party, which is very eager to develop a comprehensive road network in this country, this will be a problem which they will probably face very often.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e545	It's in place to remind you of a government statement. Indeed, the ‘Semi-Declaration’ of the Bondevik Government states: ‘The epoch of large hydropower expansions is over. The consideration of the natural experiences of future generations calls for a restrictive approach to the development of watercourses.» Nevertheless, today there are a number of watercourses that are not included in the protection plan. Especially sad is the fact that today we do not use the possibility to protect the last large river that is not built or protected, namely the weaver. One might expect something else from a party that is often interested in protecting the creation, but we have to let that lie. Is it not to protect the Web to show a restrictive attitude to watercourse development?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e557	This is a very extensive work being done in connection with the Wefsna. It's described in the Proposition of the Government. That is what we have chosen to do, and then to present the Wefsna as a separate matter to Stortinget. I think that is evidence that we are taking the challenge of Wefsna very seriously when we are actually going to make it the subject of special treatment in this house. So the question is, what is an ambitious policy in this area, and what isn't it? I don't think we can exactly figure out, either SV or we, how many watercourses are going on before you can say that you take the restrictive protection seriously, and when you tip over to not do it. I would like to say that when we protect about 50 watercourses in Norway today, there is a significant contribution to the already existing protected watercourses. I understand that is offensive protection policy on the part of the Government, but I take note that SV wants to go further, and I respect that. Nevertheless, I reserve the right to describe our own policies in this area now as restrictive and also comprehensive, with the protection policies that the Government is now initiating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e566	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e569	I would like to begin by commending the rapporteur for a good job. It is true that the Central Party is also very much involved in most of the majority comments, both in the general part and in the part dealing with each watercourse. The centre party enters to protect most of the proposed rivers. There are some exceptions, and I'll come back to that a little bit. The Committee had several inspections to see and to hear local views. This was particularly clear in two areas. It applied to the 100-meter belt along the watercourse and the impact field. A majority of the Committee has also been committed to following up the guidelines. We thought that the legislation should be reviewed so that it could be corrected also for previously adopted protected watercourses. It should be made clear that the protection applies to the water strand itself in the main watercourse and, where appropriate, to specified lateral rivers. The protection should not generally cover the entire water catchment area but an appropriate track on both sides of the watercourse adapted to topography and activity along the watercourse. Several of the watercourses proposed for inclusion in the protection plan are flowing through large areas of active agriculture. This applies, inter alia, to: Bjerkreimselva and Jørstadelva. I would like to stress that watercourse protection should not entail restrictions on the exercise of traditional agriculture and forestry. However, one cannot ignore the fact that watercourse protection may restrict the development of new forms of operation and new industries linked to agricultural property. In several areas, strong local arguments have emerged against integrating the watercourse into the protective plan. The centre party believes that it is appropriate to take local views and exempt the watercourses from the protection plan. That's why we want to protect a few fewer watercourses than the majority add up to. But that doesn't mean it's going to open up to large power builds. A good example is Naustdal. The municipality has launched a multi-use project to develop the use of natural resources in the Naustdal watercourse. Environmental conditions govern development measures. They have really taken care of developing the municipality that is struggling with poor finances and removal problems. This work is now stopped. Eleven are protected. So a little bit about the 100 meter belt. When severe restrictions are placed on the use of the land in a 100-metre-width belt on both sides of the watercourse, this is perceived as a strong state over-control of local conditions and as unnecessary for the protection of watercourse protection. In today's national policy guidelines for the protection of watercourses. 3 it has been instructed that the management of protected watercourses must ‘emphasise in particular the need to avoid interventions that reduce the value of landscape, nature conservation, outdoor life, game, fish, cultural memories and the cultural environment’. This indication extends far beyond the protection against watercourses. The Central Party strongly supports the recommendation to ask the Government to revise the national policy guidelines so that they are more limited to safeguarding the protection values directly linked to the watercourses. Last part of the post I will use on Document No. 8:14 for 2004-2005, which is also treated together with this proposition. Here it is proposed to introduce a temporary stop in safeguard decisions until an impact study on protection policy has been carried out, focusing on how this affects housing and business development. Very many new protected areas have been adopted in recent years. The pace of protection work has been so high that one has not even had the resources to follow up the areas of care plans. I have to mention Rondane National Park, which is the oldest national park in the country. It's 40 years old. There has not yet been any money to give it its own management plan. This includes, inter alia: it is not possible to create a loop map, for no lines are defined. We can't be aware of that. The centre party believes that it will be a great advantage if one comes further into the process of transferring areas to local administration before further protection decisions are taken. One should also ensure increased means of care and operation. In addition, it is appropriate to await the examination of the compensation schemes for the establishment of national parks and landscape protection areas. All this is in favour of us putting a temporary stop to the safeguard decision. We also have proposals for this. An impact assessment of protection policy should be carried out, focusing on effects on housing and industrial development. Many protection decisions have been adopted some years ago and no evaluation has been made of the effects on housing and nutrition development. In order to ensure that the protection policy will be good in the future, it is important to know the consequences of the policy that has been pursued so far. Then I'll take up the suggestions we're all about. That's part of it. This applies, inter alia, to: that the following watercourses are to be taken out of the protective plan, and I mention someone: the Tovdal Watercourse, Jørstadelva, Nausta and the Åbodal Watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e597	The representative, Inger S. None, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e602	The party of progress is probably not known as an extremely district-friendly party. So it's a little surprising to hear that the Center Party and the Advance Party argue in a similar way. I see the Center Party as a party occupied by jobs in the districts. Then it's a little surprising that the party is unable to reconcile protection and pristine nature with sustainable economic development. Being able to visit pristine nature and very freaky falls has a great value for tourists. We can create a green travel life that combines sustainable use and great economic development. Does not the Central Party, with its protection policy, put short-term profits ahead of long-term employment and vital districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e611	The representative from SV began talking about the great similarity between the Progress Party and the Center Party. It surprises me so much, because it is a well-known case that although we agree on something in this context, the Progress Party is too much more government than the Center Party adds. We're for local decisions, and that's why in this context we're going to get a slightly different result than the other thing. Played these jobs in the districts. Of course, we're very much in favour of that, and that's one of the reasons why we want to protect fewer rivers. I would like to highlight Nausta, where the municipality has presented a proposal for sustainable development along the Nausta axis. This will be stopped because of the protection. Green travel was also mentioned. When we were in Bjerkreim, it was suggested from the protection group there that you could take in cargoes with tourists. I think it should also be a page that SV should think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e620	I am very pleased that the Center Party, with some exceptions, supports the protection contained in the proposition from the Government. There are fewer rivers and some stronger clarifications in relation to local democracy and landowners' interests coming in, but I'm very pleased that the Center Party is at least largely ending up with what is in the proposition in terms of the number of watercourses. My question to the Center Party is related to the relationship between local democracy and central authorities. As I said in my post, there are two interests that can sometimes stand against each other, where we talk about transnational considerations versus what are local interests. Is it true that the Central Party wants to implement it as a principle that what the community says in any context is also going to be the result of the Stortinge, and thus play out much of the role of the Stortinge, or can the representative exemplify areas where local democracy is not listened to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e629	I could answer this very briefly, but I want to take care to spend my time completely. The centre party is concerned that national considerations must be taken into account and that, of course, in some contexts, the Storting has overall responsibility. I fully agree with that, and that's why we're in on about 40 of the 51 rivers that are being protected today, and we also had quite a number of rivers already. When we don't go into the so-called full package, it's thoughtful from our side. I have two points to make. Point 1 is the processes implemented. For example, the river Åbodenal has not been subject to regular consultation rounds. We think that's wrong. Local democracy needs to be heard. Point 2 is industrial development and local democracy. Here I will mention Jørstadelva. It has no potential for expansion. It's going on land protection. I also mentioned Nausta instead. Eco-friendly multi-use plans have not been taken into account in this context. So we believe that in some contexts, sensible use will be the best form of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e640	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e643	In the summer of 2002, I was on a mountain hike in Etneberg, along with my oldest daughter and her boyfriend. We went from the Flower House to Simlebu. It was a glorious beautiful day with shrewd sky, and warm. We went along Vaulavatnet, and at the end of this, the path crosses the start of the run down to Langfossen. Here's a hanging bridge to a small cave where the Haugesund Tourist Association has hung up a mailbox with a book on top. Here all mountain hikers can write a little greeting. I wrote in the book that I hoped that the Langfossen would run freely, and that the water level on Vaulavatnet would be as it was this day – always. The 18 - year - olds signed off that they were with me. With the decision we make in Stortinget today by protecting Vaulo with Langfossen and Saltåna, my wishes from the beautiful summer day will become a reality. That's what I'm going to write in the book the next time I take that trip. If anyone wants to see pictures of how beautiful it is at the start of Langfossen, I have it in my room. The left is very pleased that today we can protect 52 new watercourses. In addition to the watercourses taken out of the Sauda extension, there are two other watercourses that I want to express great joy over now being protected. In order to secure the viable and numerous salmon population in the best salmon river in the West, it is important that Nausta be protected. The fact that this stock is now being secured is decisive for salmon fishing as a basis for experiences, busteting and feeding in the area. Extra nice is to give a handshake to those on hand to make Nausta a national salmon watercourse. The birch watercourse is a unique watercourse in Rogaland. For a number of years, the left has worked both locally and nationally for the protection of this watercourse, to which considerable protection interests have been attached. Therefore, we are very pleased that the Government, when supplementing the protective plan, included the birch stream, and that the Storting today determines that the watercourse should be protected. Even if one has a limit of 3 MW, this does not mean that it can simply develop smaller power plants. A concession clause is that the protection values of the watercourse will not be reduced. Left wants permanent protection of the tissue. In the Government's proposals, it is stated that the Wefsna should be protected, even if it is opened for minor development which does not conflict with the protection interests. The government will present a separate matter for the protection of Web sites. As the Socialist Left Party already wants to vote for the protection of this unique watercourse, we know that the Government is sure to be a plural for this when things get to the Stortinget. The co-operation regime states that the potential for future hydropower deployment, in relation to the value of securing the remaining natural areas, means that the epoch of large hydropower expansions is over. In other words, the time of force-socialism is over. Most watercourses in Norway are already being developed, and the supply of waterpower is high. Norwegian nature is numerous and provides the basis for many beautiful natural experiences. In the left we are proud of our fjords and mountains, free-flowing watercourses and large terrain. The current setting is a statement for the watercourse nature as a unique part of the Norwegian natural heritage. And the Left believes that we both in the Government and in the Stortinget have strongly contributed to the fact that the epoch of large and conflict-filled hydropower expansions is now definitely over. Norway has an international responsibility to protect and manage our unique natural heritage. The importance of the natural experiences of current and future generations, the Norwegian salmon population and Norwegian tourism industries has been consistently leading to short-term interests. Finally, I would like to say that I support the comments made by the government party and, of course, the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e670	It's not astounding the president! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e675	I hear that the left has already concluded as SV when it applies to the Web, and that it is now being protected. But in the past, we heard from the case-speaker, Halleraker, and the Labour Party that it was not entirely safe. I need to know if the Left will support SV's proposal on protection, such as Nordland Left. requires – whether it is the position of the Left, or whether it is what Halleraker presents as being in debt. Then it's a little surprising that the Left and Christian People's Party chose the Workers' Party as partners in this matter instead of going to SV, where they could have actually achieved more protection. It shows how small the influence on the left is actually in government. Finally, I am also, as the Left, happy that Langfossen and Saltåna are protected. But I want to remind the force socialists in the left that there aren't many months since one of them built out the Lingvong and Maldalsfossen in the same area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e684	We've been in the process of securing a plurality of government policy, and the government's policy is that it's all over the big expansion times. We've had the advantage that 52 new watercourses will be protected. Left is very pleased with that. When you look at the proposals that are in the configuration, from the Labour Party, from the Socialist Left Party and from the Central Party, does Mr. Hallgeir Langeland really believe that the Socialist Left Party will be able to achieve half of what left has managed to achieve by taking responsibility, by sitting in government? We've been working for what we believe in. In the left we're actually very happy. I am pleased that the Swedish Nature Conservation Association has sent out a press release stating that the protection of watercourses is a source of joy. This means that the government party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have stood together, work on layers of environmental movement and secure a comprehensive protection decision. But we don't need a change of government to secure the environment. I thought this government is delivering very well when it comes to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e691	It must be well known for a party like the Right that the Left always defends what this government stands for. Now, the left sometimes goes very high when it comes to local democracy, and when it comes to local folklore. What is it that makes the Left in this case a hot defender to actually ignore the normal processes in terms of protection, for example. in respect of the river Åbodenal? And what makes the Left express itself as if the local population in Bjerkreim has not been the ones who have, until now, made sure that people from large parts of Rogaland and much longer have had the possibility of both fishing and outdoor life, for example. In Bjerkreim?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e698	I note that the Central Party on a principle basis now believes that they will follow all decisions made locally, because it is in line with local democracy. When it's for Nausta and most of the watercourse, it's been listening. We in the Left think that local democracy has been heard. But that doesn't mean we're in all contexts some of the multiples that have expressed themselves. When it comes to the Sauda expansion, it's not long since we had a case about that expansion here in the hall. It was an extensive distribution that was at stake. That's why we actually think that even if you haven't had the procedures that you've had in some other case, local democracy has been heard. Local politicians were heard before they went in to protect these two watercourses in Saudi Arabia. Nor has there ever been any doubt as to what the Left has meant, and where the Left has stood in this matter. In the left we're occupied with local democracy, but that doesn't mean we're always some of the decisions that one makes locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e707	I would like to repeat my question raised against the Web, which the representative from the Left did not respond to. From the case-speaker Halleraker's side, it was pointed out that it was not certain how the protection was going to be, because one should come back to this. Nordland Left and, of course, Nordland SV and Storings-SV want to protect the web now. Will the Web be protected, and the Left will support SV in this matter? We need to know that, based on the different signals that the government is now sending. So I want to say in relation to the future government and SV: When the Left now can look back at the period in relation to the opening of the Barents Sea, in relation to the climate policy, where everything goes up and one is going to build gas power plants, etc., I would rather ask the Left for advice on how to sit in government. How can we avoid SV doing like Left, sitting and accepting a bad protection policy, environmental policy and climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e714	I brought up the proposition, and the proposition says that the Wefsna should be protected, but one will come back to it in a matter of its own. And then one has said that one wants to evaluate less expansion. There is a process left that wants to join. We want protection in the first place, but we have reached a compromise and said that we should go in and look at this. As the Socialist Left Party has signaled that they want protection now, I assume that if the alternatives are not protection and protection with less expansion, the Socialist Left Party will support us in it. So I don't intend to advise the representative Langeland. He's been trying to figure it out before. In fact, I think that the Government is delivering very well on environmental policy, and I am convinced that the Socialist Left Party, in cooperation with the Labour Party and the Center Party, will not be in the vicinity of having the opportunity to get through the way that the Left has managed to achieve in government. One looks at the matter in this room how big a crack there is between these three parties. And then, of course, it's the meat weight that decides after the election, but I hope this government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e724	A little heartbreak for everyone at first: I think there are as big accordions in the sitting government as there is in public between the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party. When the Left boasts unhindered that they are able to solve this in the Government, I have to say that I am absolutely sure that a majority government will do even better. It is a sincere wish of the Workers' Party that Norway should be a leading country in environmental policy. For future generations to enjoy fresh air, clean water and a nature that we can use as individuals, it is not enough to protect watercourses from expansion. The concern for the environment must be profound in everything we do. Through targeted environmental work internationally, nationally and locally, one could create a ground for commitment to environmental work. And we're actually not there yet. There is a great lack of local understanding of key environmental policy issues. There is a responsibility on the part of the national authorities, and it is sad that Agenda 21 is no longer on the State budget, because we are all responsible for a change of attitude. Consultations within the Committee and letters from individuals and associations make it seem that many feel a great deal about protection, if any, not protection. The signals from the local population are slightly ambiguous. It should be a cross-point of thought for the central authorities that environmental awareness and exposure do not always come as a matter of course after a law or regulation by the authorities. Many municipalities perceive protection against watercourse expansion as a stop signal for the development of the area, and sometimes rightly. Through the management of National Policy Guidelines, some landowners and municipalities feel different from what they can develop around the watercourses. The majority of the Committee therefore advises the Government to ensure that national policy guidelines are used flexibly and that the practice is reviewed. It has also been necessary to clarify that the protection of watercourses does not mean restrictions on the exploitation of agricultural and forestry resources in addition to those resulting from other legislation. There's been a lot of commitment around St. prp. No 75, Supplement of the Verne Plan for Watercourses. A good result on the part of the Workers' Party lies at the intersection of protection value and user interest. Through cooperation with the government parties, I believe that both the protection interests and the user interests can feel that they have been passed on for something, if not everything. The dilemmas arise in terms of the expansion or protection of watercourses. Hydropower is a renewable energy resource and therefore also environmentally friendly. At the same time, the environmental handicaps associated with the natural impacts of hydropower deployment can be considerable and minimised. A number of ideas and plans have been put in place for the examination of this Communication to protect and develop the interests of both protection and development. Maybe that could be the solution to the difficult dilemmas in the future? The Labour Party's programme proposal emphasises that the time for new large hydroelectric power plants is over. I have heard several parties here quote it, and I am glad that they agree with the Workers' Party in it. This means that the energy needs of the future must be met in other ways. We must not rely on imports of coal-fired and nuclear power stations. Therefore, it costs one thought more money to protect several watercourses. It remains to be seen whether the majority in the United Kingdom is willing to provide more for research into renewable energy sources and power-saving measures in the future. Finally, I'm going to try a little difficult practice, on behalf of the majority of the committee. This concerns the comment of the majority of the Committee on the Little Lakes in West Agder, which is in favour of the protection of Little Island ‘above the Eftestøl’. The Committee's proposal for Decision VII states: «Little below EFtestøl is not included in the Water Protection Plan» – i.e. not «above». This creates problems for the town of Eftestøl. I would recommend to the Department to look at the proposal for a decision under I, where it says what is correct. That's what I have been informed by Stortinget's office is the way to do it, it is difficult to drag parts of the setting. But the proposal by the majority of the committee is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e747	The work on supplementing the Protection Plan for Watercourses has been a comprehensive process. There is a type of case that gives rise to a strong commitment from different teams, both from those who believe that protection is the only means of preserving a representative sample of Norwegian nature, and from those who are engaged in freedom of landowners to avail themselves of the property and resource base to afford of opportunities. These will often perceive protection as a strong intervention in their rights, rights they perceive as a matter of course for a private property owner. We're going to have respect for the commitment of all parties and a humility for their feelings and opinions. In particular, there is one aspect that has emerged in this case that I would say has been very unfortunate, namely the fact that most actors do not necessarily have a reluctance to protect the water strand in the watercourse, but are skeptical of what they regard as an area protection measure in relation to the protection decision. I have met this view from several quarters, and I am therefore pleased with the clarifications made by a majority of the Committee, and which the Right fully supports, in relation to what protection under the Water Resource Act really means, namely, a protection primarily aimed at power development. This means that protection does not apply to measures which affect only land in the catchment area. Furthermore, the Right Ministry supports in the clarification made in relation to the fact that the protection should not be interpreted so strictly as to place significant restrictions on any type of activity in the field of protection, which was also the subject of the rapporteur. I would like to refer to the majority's reference to differentiated management, namely that where special protective values have not been recorded, there should initially be no greater restrictions on use than those made in non-protected watercourses. This is something the municipalities themselves define in their watercourse plans. National policy guidelines for protected watercourses are used as a basis for planning, inter alia. according to the Law of Planning and Building along watercourses that are protected, and there may be a number of landowners and local communities above all who have a scepticism in relation to the possibilities of exploiting resources in and along watercourses. This applies, inter alia, to: the scepticism surrounding the protection of the Rogaland blight. Bjerkreim is a large agricultural municipality, and large agricultural areas border the watercourse and its associated water catchment area. In Bjerkreim, it is believed that local protection interests can be maintained with a belt narrower than 100 metres on both sides of the watercourse, for the sake of precisely the agricultural interests. It is worth noting here that a majority of whom are part of the Right stresses that these provisions in force should not be interpreted as an area protection of 100 metres wide on each side of the watercourse. It is the municipality which is to draw up management plans along the watercourse, there shall be room for local adaptations as long as documented protection values directly linked to the watercourse are maintained. And the national policy guidelines refer to a belt of up to 100 meters, depending on topography and protection value. If the Bjerkreim municipality wants a narrower belt, for example. 30 meters, as in today's municipal plan, and as a basis for its management of the watercourse, it does not initially make any mistake in relation to the current legislation and signals from a majority of the Stortinget in this matter – as long as topography and proven protection value are taken into account. A local management plan will be approved by the county council, and I expect that signals from a majority in the Grand Duchy will be taken into account, through the Ministry of State, in relation to the perception of watercourse protection, as well as the interpretation of national policy guidelines. The Government has then also been asked to review the practice of national policy guidelines on protected waterways, in order to evaluate the guidelines and their use in relation to the purpose of protection, and to ensure equal treatment between one watercourse and the State. I am particularly pleased that a large majority support the opening of the concession treatment of small power plants of up to 3 MW in the Bjerkreim watercourse and 1 MW in other sheltered watercourses during this round. Small-scale deployments with today's technologies and environmentally friendly solutions allow us to produce good projects that do not significantly reduce the protection value of watercourses. We need this kind of small power to strengthen the energy balance in general with clean and renewable energy on the one hand, and on the other hand, this type of project can contribute – and contribute – to ensuring the income potential of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e760	It is rare for us to deal with a matter at Stortinget that arouses such a strong commitment to the local population around the country. I understand that, because there are important questions we are debating, and those who have followed this debate have recorded that there have been some signals in the media, and then the decision here on the Storting has become quite different, and the disappointment has become great. Of the many e-mails, telephones and letters we have received, I will be allowed to refer to two e-mails that have arrived at Stortinget and the Committee from Johannes Bakka: ‘I am sorry that Norwegian policy has become such that buying and tactics count more than the substance of the cases. History may be shattering judgments about the way politics operate. At least the government doesn't trust that kind of thing." And on the other hand, ‘When the facts get completely out of hand in political horse trade and tactic, it is the political system and democracy that loses out on it in the long run. Such treatment is unworthy. Policies should have higher objectives than they did. It is not difficult to understand why interest in politics and the opening up of elections is falling here in the country. For 18 landowners in Saudi Arabia Johannes Bakka.’» I understand the frustration that is coming, when you experience representatives flying in the media and telling one thing, and then you give the position and deal with this matter in the Stortinget, and land on a completely different decision. It is simply to fool the basic owners and local democracy, and it is regrettable that this is happening. Because it is clear that those who have an interest in this matter in terms of expanding and creating economic activity in their areas have hopes for us big-time politicians. Local democracy also has hopes. We've got a lot of input from local government around, and from county councils, who have made decisions that are positive in terms of starting that kind of activity, and then we're doing the exact opposite on Stortinget. Clearly, frustration then becomes quite great, especially when the argument is often that we have to take care of pristine nature. Why don't you have the same idea about, for example, construction of wind power plants? We in the Progress Party have promoted the need to have a comprehensive plan for the construction of wind turbines. This should be done along the coast, and a number of organisations are concerned about it. The last one was the Directorate of Nature Management, which wanted such a plan. No, then you have no plan – because it is politically correct to provide energy by means of windmills. But the pollution and the visual grubbing-up are significant in this way. The travel industry has also been very concerned about starting this type of project without having a complete plan for it. I think it's sad that we can't start and contribute to the necessary value creation out in District Norway. This is also important in terms of producing energy. Norway is, of course, a deficit country in energy, incredible enough. The representative of Liones was concerned with this with climate change in the exchange of lines with the Vaksdal, that the Progress Party did not take care of future generations. Now it is that the energy policy of the Government and the Christian People's Party means that instead of producing pure energy in Norway, we import coal power and nuclear power. And if that's what we're really giving to our coming generations, it's just the pollution problems you get when you produce nuclear power. But it's good politics for the Christian People's Party. It's totally incomprehensible to me that you can have that kind of thinking, and that the Christian People's Party can't take on board the fact that there's actually coming new research into the alleged man-made climate change. But the Christian People's Party has put its head far down in the sand and wants to stay down there, in its own CO2 fog. It's incomprehensible to me! I think it's best I stop here. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e794	It might be a trick, yeah. But the president has nothing against commitment, just so it's said!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e797	Protecting nature is giving future generations the same opportunities that we have had. Unspoiled watercourses, with violent running water masses and roaring waterfalls, are an important aesthetic brand for Norway. But protecting watercourses is not just about preserving aesthetic values. The protection of watercourses is also to ensure biodiversity. And it's incredibly important to realize that we don't have a withdrawal period on biodiversity issues. A species may never be resuscitated with a budget allocation. We in SV are not surprised that some watercourse municipalities do not want protection. As long as the Right has its clumsy grip around the Ministry of Local Affairs and starves Norwegian municipalities, it is no wonder that many febrile people are looking for new incomes. Norwegian municipal politicians do not want to put rivers in touch or travel dams. The responsibility for this policy lies with the municipal minister. Dams are going to be raised because today we have not been able to protect the watercourses, and because the municipalities have too small frames. These dams should be adorned with mowings in the rocks of Erna Solberg, or statues in iron, to show who is responsible for the no longer being allowed to live on. In the Süd-Trøndelag, it is gratifying that we have finally managed to protect the Homlavass suit in Malvik. The watercourse was acutely threatened by power expansion in 2001. SV pressed hard at that time to prevent the concession being granted. The protection of nine watercourses in Trøndelag makes this an important marking date on the road against the protection of all protective watercourses in the area. At the same time, it is sad to note that there is no majority in the committee to secure the great and beautiful Garbergselva. SV is the only party that goes in to protect Garbergselva, despite the fact that this watercourse is highlighted by the Natural Conservation Cooperation Council as one of the five most important watercourses to be protected in Norway. The Natural Protection Cooperation Council is an umbrella organisation with 325 000 members in Norway. Hydropower is a particularly competitive form of energy production, but the interventions in nature are also very large. And we have a huge potential for new renewable energy in Norway. SV has submitted a package of 20 TWh by 2010, including: by investing in wind power, bioenergy and energy efficiency. The protection of watercourses is to facilitate the development of alternative energy. If we go in to use more alternative energy, we can help Norway become a net exporter of green energy, but without raging our beautiful watercourse nature. We should protect several watercourses in Norway, so that future generations will have the opportunity to experience water spray on the face of a roaring foot, so that future generations will hear the roaring tune of Norwegian rivers, while water flows through the rocks, so that future generations will also see the rainbow pattern in drops of water on which the sun shines, and so that future generations will have the same opportunities as we have. Protecting watercourses is an ideological choice of value. There is a choice between betting on short-term gains and being on the game with the future to protect watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e821	Today, we are going to decide on supplementing the Verne Watercourse Plan, which is a major issue, which has engaged many communities around the country. It has been said many times that the time of large hydropower expansion is over, and I think that the statement has to be interpreted into that with great environmental consequences – and I repeat great environmental consequences – is going to be history. It is quite clear that this matter is not a simple matter. There are many opinions and interests to be taken care of. Some are satisfied, some are contented and some are dissatisfied, and so it will always be. As a representative from Nordland and Helgeland, I would like to say a little bit about the watercourse that has received the most attention, namely, the Wefsna. I am very pleased that, in his opinions both now and to the NRK Nordland, Mr. Øyvind Halleraker makes it clear that it is the pilot project «Facilities of Helgeland» that one wants to continue through a concessional process and impact assessment of Vefsna, where one will be able to get back to Stortinget with this as one's own case. It is good that one has also taken into account that there is broad local support to streamline the potential for development in Vefsna in line with the project «Facilities of Helgeland». Some have also called for an investigation into protection in the debate on Wefsna, but it has already been done in the joint planning programme for Wefsna that was carried out under the direction of the local municipalities, the municipality of Nordland, the county council and the development interests in 2003. It will also be important not to restrict what should actually be further developed and investigated, but to wait for real impact assessments before discussing this. Further development and investigation of this new hydropower pilot project is very interesting and a whole new way of thinking about hydropower generation. The focus here has been on both the community and the natural environment at an early stage. Studies so far show that this can be done with care and in a way that threatens or impairs the natural quality of the area to a lesser extent. I refer there to the Joint Plan Programme. Much of this seems possible precisely because the project is also seen in the context of upgrading and extension of the existing Røssåga facilities, which reach the age of 50 in the summer. In many ways, this project can make better use of old interventions and infrastructure. The hydropower project «Facilities of Helgeland» has been developed by Statkraft in cooperation with the Helgelands municipalities of Grane, Hattfjelldal, Hemnes and Wefsn and the regional power company of HelgelandsKraft. I have said in the past that it is a pilot project that can provide a lot of clean energy, but without major interference or great negative effects on nature. The future hydropower projects in Norway have little in common with the major expansions of the last century, as society’s energy needs were greater than the need to protect the environment. «Possibilities of Helgeland» have been developed in line with the recent announcements of the aggregates, the Semi-Declaration of the Cooperative Government and now the last notification of security of supply. Hydropower is a fundamental component of the country’s energy supply and has no advantages for other energy sources. Hydropower is both emission-free, renewable and can be stored. In addition, hydropower plants can be switched on and off as necessary and provide flexibility in the supply system. Since the total production capacity of the country’s power plant is lower than consumption in the year of normal rainfall, the supply situation becomes difficult for dry years. That doesn't mean that one is too dependent on hydropower, as someone makes it, but we produce too little power in Norway. That's what this is about. Such a project also has an employment effect that one should include. An installation period will cover about seven to ten years. It will be approx. 140 jobs during the construction period, and not least tax revenue will be paid to the four municipalities, county and state when the power plants are put into operation. I believe that one must also take this into account when one is in an area that has a part of the relocation. It's also about employment, and at the same time it's 1.5 TWh. It means electricity to 75,000 households, and it's not small.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e844	In the proposal to supplement the Watercourse Protection Plan, the Government proposes to protect 52 new watercourses. The comprehensive protection proposal ensures that even more watercourses with high environmental values are protected against power build-up. The proposal provides for the protection of an expansion potential of about 7,3 TWh per. years. At the same time, the Government considers that the protection of watercourses should not prevent proper action in the watercourses. Until now, there has been no access to concession treatment of power development projects in sheltered watercourses. It is therefore now proposed to allow the concession treatment of the very smallest power plants – micro and mini-power plants – in sheltered watercourses. Micro- and mini-power plants often have minor environmental impacts, and there is good reason to equate them with other types of sheltered watercourse measures that may be granted concession. It will be essential that such power plants do not harm the protection values of the watercourse. In the past, this government has implemented several measures to speed up the development of small-scale power plants within an environmentally sound framework. In this proposition, we are now proposing to raise the treatment limit in the Total Plan from 1 to 10 MW of installed power. The raising of the limit will result in a significant simplification of the procedure for small-scale power plants. Previously at the top of 341 watercourses, with a total potential of approximately 36,5 TWh per. years, protected by the adoption by the Storting of Protection Plans I, II, III and IV. This proposition is a response to the Storting decision in the spring of 2001 that the Protection Plan for Watercourses should be supplemented. The Government assumes that hydropower deployment will continue to be possible within environmentally sound frameworks. It is therefore not appropriate to protect all remaining watercourses with potential for expansion. The protection of watercourses is also not contrary to a careful expansion of hydropower. The conversion of the overall plan envisaged by the Storting is part of such a development policy. 76 watercourses have been assessed during this supplementation of the protective plan. The government proposes the protection of 48 watercourses in the proposal. In addition, two watercourses protected by the Law of Nature are proposed by adjusting the limits of Salt Mountain National Park. It was also recommended to protect two watercourses taken during the concessional treatment of the Sauda extension. Vaulo m/Langfossen, Saltåna and the Åbodal watercourse are included in the protective plan. The position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the landfill proposal is now in place, and the Government is essentially broadly in agreement with its recommendations. Of course, I'm very pleased with that. Watercourse protection is not contrary to the sound, sustainable use of this important resource. The government has placed great emphasis on finding a good balance between the need for local involvement and influence and taking into account overall national objectives. I note that there is a broad political consensus that there must be a strong emphasis on active local involvement in the management of the protected watercourses. There's a lot of the knowledge about the watercourses in the watercourse municipalities. This knowledge must be used to achieve the management of protected watercourses that also meet the needs of the districts. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment therefore supports the Government when it is clarified that the protection cannot be interpreted strictly to the extent that it places significant restrictions on any type of activity in the area of protection. The protective plan applies initially to power build-up, while the values underlying the watercourse protection must not be reduced in relation to other types of intervention. The government has, in the proposition, emphasised an enhanced differential management of the watercourses, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee also emphasises this. Despite today's debate, it may well be said that there is a broad political consensus that it is important to ensure that both present and future generations have the opportunity to experience pristine nature and watercourses flowing in their natural course. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has mainly joined the Government's proposal to protect an even greater part of our watercourse nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e870	In the Workers' Party, we are proud, but not entirely satisfied with the result we are achieving today by supplementing the protection plan. I'll talk about one of the problem areas. The birch stream is being protected, and that's good. Nevertheless, we regret that there was no willingness to equate all protected watercourses. The birch stream is allowed to expand 3 MW, while the others are allowed to build 1 MW. We in the Workers' Party believe that when you protect watercourses, they should be as pristine as possible. Then I allow myself to ask the Council of State what is the professional reason for discriminating the birch stream. Is there such a reason, or is there local policy considerations that govern the Government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e879	As I said in my speech, on the basis of the proposal put forward by the Government, there is a convergence and consideration of both the local political interests and, in particular, the overall national leadership in such matters. I am at least very pleased that we are now getting a large majority in the Grand Duchy to open up to the concession treatment of smaller extensions also in sheltered watercourses. In the case of birch cream, there are significant protective values in the birch watercourse. There is also a strong local interest, not only in terms of management, but also in making reasonable use of the watercourse, and of course within an environmentally sound framework. There is a great potential for generating small-scale power projects in the birch watercourse, and it has been crucial for the Government to be willing to open up to it a greater opportunity in this watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e888	If the representative of Klungland were interested in 3 MW, he could vote in favour of the proposal we have in the matter today, and if he were in favour of our comments, he would have received it. But he's winging further in this case. I am pleased that the conditions for small power plants are set in order. However, there are some issues that arise. Then I don't think about what's going on with nature, but simply because you're going to connect to a network, a network that's owned by either a local or a regional network. Then there have been questions about who is going to pay for those investments, not just for the connection to the network itself, but for the upgrading of the existing network, especially when you have a ringing network, where the network is ringing. So the question to the government council is, who is going to pay the costs? Is it the existing owner, or are they the ones that connect on the web?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e895	It is true that the government has put conditions well in place to increase the focus on the development of small-scale power plants and to increase the size of mini- and micro-power plants. There has been a significant part of the government's policy precisely in order to trigger the potential that exists around our vast country. There are many rivers where one can have such a great potential. We know that since the Government decided to allow the development of small power plants, mini- and micro-power plants, it has actually been a formidable effort by the builders to meet the need that will be there in the future. We see that there are opportunities for this in terms of the transmission system, and the ability to connect, and we also see that there is a need to find solutions here in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e900	SV would like to protect 70 more watercourses today, and we have suggestions on that. Included in this is unique Web. The Sem Declaration states that the time for large hydropower expansions is over, but obviously the Council of State does not think that the Wefsna is particularly large, as it does not want protection. There are two problem settings. The one is connected to this by 1 MW in protected watercourses. That's also SV included. But – and that's where the problems start – it's going to open up to 3 MW in the birch watercourse. This will, of course, lead to, as the Small Forces Association says, they will then push forward 3 MW in all protected watercourses. They will claim that there is no equal treatment. What do the state councils think about that? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that this protection leads to the growth of green travel life in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e908	In the case of Wefsna, I feel a strong need to say that, with the eyes of the Government, it is obviously not appropriate to open up some extensive power development, so that's what has been said. We know that there is a very broad and strong local commitment to getting an impact assessment and assessing the projects that can be combined with these interests – the protection interests. That is why the government has also said in the proposition, which has been referred to here in Stortingen today and which I have understood there is broad support for, that one goes in for the Wefsna not to be included in the protection plan now, but that perhaps one comes back with a separate case of opening up a smaller extension, which must of course be combined with the environmental interests of the watercourse. In the case of the birch watercourse, I have replied that there has been a great interest locally to bet on an extension here. The government has responded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e915	The councils were in their contribution to power development and spent a lot of time at mini and micro power plants. That's what we see in the Center Party is fine. Among other things, she said: the protection of watercourses is not contrary to prudent expansion. It's fine, too. But I'm surprised that Jørstadelva is included. There are many people who wonder that it has been included in the protective plan. It has no potential for power plant expansion and the NVE has not found any reason to recommend Jørstadelva. When parts of the committee were on an inspection up there, we were informed that there were some errors in the proposition. It was also claimed at an open meeting that the municipality had been called to choose one of two rivers for protection. This gives the impression of random processing. The river flows through active agricultural areas and the management of traditional agriculture cannot ignore the potential conflict between watercourse protection and the development of new forms of farming. I have to ask the Council of State: why is Jørstadelva actually included in the Protection Plan for Watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e922	As several representatives have been involved here today, when proposing a protection, there are many representatives and many interests that are opposed – and some are in favour. It is also true in this case. There is nothing to hide from the fact that the Government has assessed this, and after an overall assessment, we have come to the conclusion that Nausta is included in the protection plan. I have recorded that many of the hearing bodies are of the opinion that the watercourse has high protection values, but I also record that some hearing bodies are protected. It is such that there are very many difficult balances, but one must arrive at an overall assessment in such a case. I want to emphasize that this watercourse is linked to large biological and also landscape values, not least eleven being a valuable part of this landscape. That is why, after an overall assessment, the Government has concluded that this watercourse should also be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e929	I noticed that the Right has written in its programme proposal that micro, mini and small power plants should be allowed to be built in sheltered watercourses without requiring a concession. In the committee position of the matter we are now dealing with, it says: ‘A majority of the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Centre’s Party indicate that the concession treatment of micro and mini-power plants will provide a better basis for assessing the environmental impact of the operation and whether the protection values are affected.’ Then my question is, what is the Right Policy? I thought there was close contact between the Right Programme Committee, the Minister of Energy and the Right Energy Policy spokespersons in Stortinget. Do we want to see a less environmentally friendly Right after the election? Or what will this be about? Then I would like to make sure that the Council of State has noticed the clarification I made in relation to Little Island and Eftestøl. The effervescent beer area shall not be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e943	Governments have taken note of this clarification and have remembered it. As far as the Right Programme proposal is concerned, there is at least one thing I am very pleased with, and that is that those proposals should not be adopted here in the Chamber, first and foremost, and that at least this House is not going to agree to add the priorities for what the Right should go to elections on. It is also a proposal, it is very important to clarify, and there will be plenty of opportunity to decide later. I also feel reasonably confident that the Workers' Party has some concrete proposals, which they will have the opportunity to decide on at their national meeting. That being said, it is important to stress what is the government's policy. As I also said in my post, until now there has been no access to concession treatment of power development projects in sheltered watercourses. That is why we have now also proposed opening up the concession treatment of the very smallest power plants, micro and mini-power plants, in sheltered watercourses. That's what's going on. That's what the government's policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e955	The working party of its members on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has previously said what concerns the broad lines of this matter. I join it. I would like to pay tribute to the way in which the group has been involved in the debate, in several group meetings. The exposure has our big ones. The exposure is also large among people who live in these areas as a cause of decay, whether it concerns protection or possible expansion. It's the fifth time protection plans for watercourses have been put on the day map. We have built around 1 100 watercourses and are going to protect about 400 watercourses. In my opinion, that's soon enough. We need power. Imports of contaminated power generation grew every year. In my opinion, nature interference with today's environmental considerations is small compared to the gain. Wounds in nature are not like they were before. As a Busherud representative, I am pleased that Godfarfossen should now be able to expand. If the committee had taken the time to raise sight, they would see for themselves how this expansion would make it possible to correct old interventions that were made in the 1920s. The Hallingdal and Numedal expansions at the time and in time thereafter were just not of environmental significance. Pålsbufjorden and Tunhovdfjorden, where the Godfarfossen drained, I claim to be the most serious example of interference in nature in Norway. Now, by the concession requirement, we can clean up old sins. The majority of countries believe that possible expansion is an environmental benefit, and the local population is very much affected by it. In this case, I refer to the Committee's comments from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, where it says: ‘The municipality of Sigdal and the municipality of Buskerud are against the protection of the watercourse. Elva has been used for logging and sawmilling. There are residues of ponds, and in the Kvernhus water there is a more recent ingested pond. Modern forest operations characterise large areas of the area, with short-haul, planting and forest roads. The Road Directorate points out that in the long term there will be a need to repair bridges over the watercourse. Nedalselva was assessed in Protection Plan IV but was not protected on the grounds that the protection of the region by Smioa and Vergre covers the region by type.’;» I can tell you that Nedalselva has been involved in all four previous assessments, without protection being compromised – before now. I'm sorry that the Labour Party is withdrawing from the note one had with the Center Party, by voting for the Government's proposal on protection. I wonder about the value of protection and the assessment that was made before the government presented its document. There's probably not every place the government has listened to the local involvement, as the representative Halleraker said in his post earlier today. The municipalities in which these watercourses I have now mentioned are located have contributed to a lot of protection. In Hol Municipality is 84 pst. of the watercourse in the municipality protected, or there are bindings on exploitation. I understand that the inhabitants say that enough is enough. I mean both of these two mentioned watercourses would contribute to improving environmental measures for people who live there 365 days a year. It counts most for me. Neither are interested in destroying their natural experiences for future relatives. I think the setting from some parties is more of a symbolic policy than a real policy. Frustration is probably a lot of arguments used for protection. There could be more reason to ask whether local knowledge is sufficient, and whether the committee has been out of sight before the comments were written and decisions made. I ask that the vote be put to the vote so that I can vote in favour of proposal No. 14 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e982	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e985	Today, we are going to make extensive decisions on watercourse protection in Norway. There's no doubt about it. There are two posts left, I think, after the decisions that are made here. One is that there is now no access to grant concessions for power development in sheltered watercourses. These are the watercourses that are currently protected. Furthermore, only new extensions that do not trigger concession obligations are now permitted in the protected watercourses. This I think is the headlines. This means, as I said, that we are now laying a lid on a number of watercourse and expansion projects. I also expect that we will now switch to a new set of driving rules. I want to get into the 100 meter belt that the majority will make today's decision. It is not easy to interpret, nor is it easy to handle. But I have noticed the majority position, to which the Workers' Party subscribes: in the case of the 100-metre belt, the central legislation and the central guidelines are to be applied, and then the local municipal self-government is to be given considerable opportunities to have its perspective on what is really the protection of the environment here. Here there is a germ for many conflicts. I'm not in doubt about that. But with the majority clarifying what's in this, I think you also have to take it inwards with regard to the central guidelines. Indeed, within this 100-metre belt, there is no link between what is involved in agriculture and other related activities or activities which are naturally part of a development of industrial policy, etc. You have to be aware of this when you go in for a 100 meter belt. I would particularly like to refer to the disputed watercourse in the protection plan, namely the birch creek watercourse, which has now expanded to 3 MW, and not 1 MW, which was previously covered. Finally, in a three-minute post, I have to say that in this debate I may miss a little bit more about how we are actually going to follow up on the energy shortage we have in Norway. That perspective probably hasn't been too much of this. However, I note that in many ways it is a protection debate we have, and not a debate on how to get new energy. The alternative to what will be protected here is two gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e998	The protection plan for watercourses is a major issue, one that affects many. Protective goods are engaged at local level, both in county municipalities, municipalities, organisations and individuals. It is important to have areas that are guaranteed to the public in the future. At the same time, it is also important that the protection plan does not lead to stagnation and negative developments in municipalities. In my county, Vest-Agder, there is the municipality of Kvinesdal, where there has been a great deal of concern about this matter. It's about Little Island. Both the county and the municipality have opposed the protection of the entire area. I am pleased with the result that the majority of the committee – including my party, Right – has arrived at. The upper part of Little Island, above Eftestøl, is protected, while the area over which most of the discussion has taken place will not be included in the protection plan. Here there are both residential and economic areas, and a protection here would have limited and hampered a positive development in the municipality. In this case, the rapporteur and the majority of the Committee have found an excellent balance between protection and development. This will delight all interested parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1009	I regret that the entire committee, except the Progress Party, believes that it is important that both present and future generations have the opportunity to experience pristine nature with rivers flowing in their natural course. I agree with that, but at the same time, we must remember that protection is a serious intervention by the state in the communities concerned. I therefore believe it is important to listen to the local population during any care of protective matters. Since the new year 2001, by then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, it has been said innumerable times that the time for large hydroelectric power plants has passed. Maybe that's right. But how do we know – be absolutely sure – that this is right? Still new technology becomes available. How can this technology be used so that we can still make use of the clean, renewable natural resource that hydropower is, without major natural interference? Statkraft and HelgelandKraft have developed the project «Facilities of Helgeland» in which they will impact on an expansion of power of up to 1.5 TWh in the Weefsnavassläge. Therefore, it is good that the Wefsna is not now included in the protection plan for watercourses. In this way, interested developers may apply for a concession, if they so wish, to carry out an impact assessment, which is not an extension – addressed to SV – to find out whether it is possible to expand so much hydropower and yet have a strong focus on the environment. We know that the NVE will at all times impose stringent requirements on environmental measures. Many people go around saying that the tissue is the last large, pristine watercourse. That's not exactly right. Production is going on there today, and therefore the ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ project will consist of upgrading the plants by two thirds, while one third will be produced in the new plant. This is an exciting project, with a great focus on environmental considerations. If there were to be more hydropower in the future in Wefsna, there would be major ring-effects, especially in the four municipalities that are part of the project. These are municipalities that, like many other municipalities, are struggling with poor finances. Finally, I think it is good that we can now build micro-power plants and mini-power plants in sheltered watercourses, and that more attention should be paid to industrial activities, such as: agriculture, in connection with the 100 metre belt.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1027	The Government underlines in the Sem Declaration that the consideration of the natural experiences of future generations implies a restrictive approach to further watercourse development and that we should leave the vast majority of the remaining watercourses untouched. The epoch of large hydroelectric expansion is over, says Left, Christian People's Party and Right, as an echo of a historic New Year's celebration. Former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said some very wise words in his New Year's speech in 2001: Unspoiled nature is gaining increasing value. We've come to the point where the time for new large hydropower expansions is over. Nevertheless, the government parties and the Workers' Party are opening up today for a large expansion of power, the expansion of Wefsna. What were the promises really worth? The fabric is today the last of the three large watercourses that are not developed. The others are the Tana River Trail and the Trysil River Trail. There is a great local commitment to preserve what is called the ‘last great river’. A comprehensive environmental movement and natural and outdoor organisations have the Wefsna at the top of the list of safe watercourses. It's not for no reason. In the work on the protection plan, the NVE and the Directorate for Nature Management have assessed the protection value of the various watercourses. Weapon scores the highest in all disciplines: geological diversity, biodiversity, landscape, outdoor life, cultural environment, Sami interests and agriculture. The value of protection should be indisputable. It is manufactured as if the plans in question are moderate, gentle and environmentally friendly. In fact, Statkraft’s development plans for Weftsna represent more than two Alta power plants. There are more than three Salt Mountain buildings, which former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg stopped in his New Year's speech in 2001, and which marked the end of the epoch of the major hydroelectric expansions. Smart words in a New Year's Eve! Very much of Nordland is today laid in pipes and tunnels. 80 pst. is extended. Together with Hordaland, Nordland has the most power expansion in the country. There's a huge surplus of power. 16–17 TWh is produced. Although there is a lot of industry in the Nordic countries, it is used approximately. 10 TWh, the rest is exported. There is no shortage of power in Northern Ireland. How can Statkraft be allowed to expand into Web once in the neighborhood they have sold a power plant to Finland until 2020? The industrial argument doesn't hold. SV is in favour of the permanent protection of the tissue. We deeply regret that it is not adopted today. We use the same arguments that the Government uses in its own Sem statement. The consideration of the natural experiences of future generations suggests that we must protect more watercourses than the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Workers' Party add up. The Wefsna development plan will return to Stortinget before summer. There should be no doubt that SV will propose once again the protection of the tissue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1046	In this case, the Committee has received a great deal of useful information and many advice and advice. The exposure to managing rivers and watercourses in the best possible way tells of a unique interest in taking care of and fending for resources that help sustain a living Norway. We have at the same time experienced strong disagreements about how rivers and watercourses should be managed in the best possible way. After a thorough assessment, the Stortinget Government asks to start the case with a view to protecting three new watercourses. It applies to Langvella in the southern Tributaries, Øysteelva in Hordaland and the Tovdal Rivers trek from Herefossfjorden down to the sea in East Agder. The following three watercourses or parts of watercourses are not included in the protective plan. This is true of Storelva, Skjerdalen, in Sogn and Fjordane, so that the gardening can be continued, it is true of Little Island below Effertøl in West Agder, and it is true of Jordalselvi, which is located in Hordaland, a small side of Nærødalselvi in Sogn and Fjordane. The majority indicates that Earth Alselvi represents a resource that can play a significant role in the further establishment and development of the small agricultural community in the Earth. It is important to stress that protection in general is not an obstacle to normal activity associated with the watercourse and the area along the watercourse, especially agricultural activity. So the guard is not supposed to stop normal gardening along the watercourse. This is evident, among other things. in the report of Jørstadelva in the Nord-Trøndelag, where the Committee refers to comments in the general section of the setting and also stresses that agriculture must not be allowed to reduce its activity along the river. It is also said that Snåsa is an important agricultural area with good management along the river that can be developed further. Nausta has also received a special mention in the setting. Reference is made to the ‘Multi-purpose project for Nausta’ and ‘Nausta – a future for the wild.’ With this in mind, the Committee would stress that there is scope to exploit the resources of Nausta under the clear assumption that any new measures are within the scope of the protection provision. A lot of attention has rightly been paid to the web site. According to the protection values of the Wefsna, I have a lot of understanding of the arguments used to protect the watercourse. The majority assume that the protection values will be preserved when the Government has assessed the impact of the «Facilities of Helgeland» and file a case for the Storting. As a summary, I would like to say that the safeguard decision today provides a good basis for the good use of the resources represented by the watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1063	I must say, I'm very disappointed. I am also very critical of the large extension of watercourse protection which is being adopted today, against the votes of the Progress Party, of course. Many of the good opportunities that we initially have in Norway to exploit renewable resources such as hydropower for the necessary energy production and for good district policies are now in the process of being unduly and unnecessarily protected away. We are so well aware that national protection decisions are often the main disgust and are resisting both landowners and local politicians in the areas of the country affected by ever-increasing protection interventions, which often have adverse local consequences. An excellent example of Storting's lack of local interest and lack of respect for local democracy's voice in terms of protection is the protection that is now taking place in Tovdalselva, East Agder. Almost all the municipalities involved – I think all the large municipalities through which Tovdalselva runs – were strongly opposed to the extended protection of this watercourse. Nevertheless, the bulk of the population blows completely into the objections and resistance of local democracy to the proposed watercourse protection in this river. Not enough with that: the majority of the population demonstrate their enormous arrogance with the views of local authorities so to the degrees of protection in Tovdalselva, that they are not even careful to protect only the content of the plan, but will extend the protection beyond the proposal contained in the plan to the last remainder of the watercourse through neighbouring West Agder. And I have to say that this is quite incredible – it is directly outrageous to the local interests involved, and it represents a spectacular negation of both local democracy and landowners and is also a completely misunderstood district policy that has clearly negative consequences in several places in the country. In these times we have also seen an almost explosive interest in building micro, mini and small power plants around the country. The potential for this type of environmentally friendly mini- and small-scale power plants is very high, while any up-to-date average population in this country knows that we need more power generation. Thus, with the new protection plan now being adopted, many good mini- and small-scale projects can be scrapped for good. That is when we have to ask ourselves: is this a desirable development, in relation to both the future need for increased energy supply and the need for Norwegian local democracy, for district policy and for the nutrient base in Building Norway? It's okay to wonder a lot about this. Only in one location in Tovdalselva will 6-7 projects now be stopped because of this protection that Stortinget will adopt here today. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1076	I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1083	Øyvind Halleraker asked for the word of an obvious misunderstanding. It is rarely authorised by the President in a three-minute round, especially when the representative is on the list of speakers. But the representative is given the floor, limited to half a minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1086	It's got to hold. It was said by the representative Torbjørn Andersen that all the municipalities were against protection. That's not right. Tovdalselva runs largely through Birkene's municipality, the lower part, and Birkene's municipality has asked for the river to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1093	It is noted, both at Torbjørn Andersen and at the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1096	I intend to use my measured time to comment on the Tovdal watercourse. It is that the Tovdal watercourse has followed me politically for many years. When I was rapporteur in Åmli in the 1980s, I fought for full expansion. But then the Storting stopped all dreams of jobs and tax revenues with Verneplan III in 1986, and the river opposite Rjukanfossen joined the Årdalen nature reserve. Now the government proposes to protect the river down to Herrefossfjorden. I find it illogical to set the limit at Herrefoss. It is up to Herrefoss salmon to go, and I therefore support the majority who, after a hearing, will protect the health of the watercourse. In my opinion, the majority of people in this part of the country are in agreement with and accept that Tovdalselva is being protected from hi to sea. What is problematic for the municipality and the landowners is the national policy guidelines for protected watercourses. Today, the guidelines are practised differently from state to state. The securing of a 100 metre belt from the protected river must be acceptable if it is rationally practised. What created great frustration is that the side basins and the water catchment are also interpreted into the protection. I would personally have been much safer if the Great Britain's Roman Numeral Decision had clarified it by the majority of the committee. However, I choose to believe that the Department and the County take into account the comments of the majority. The main essence of the majority's comments on national policy guidelines, which also become a comment of the Grand Duchy, is quite full and clear that it is the municipality that is to manage the areas by means of the Planning and Building Act: ‘The majority will highlight and clarify that it is the municipalities that will draw up management plans along the watercourses’. In addition, the majority say that it is ‘accompanied by facilitating local economic development, and in outlying areas in particular based on their own natural resources’, and ‘a high level of respect for local self-government and local land management through the application of RPRVV’, national policy guidelines for protected watercourses. The majority recommend to the Government a review of the guidelines with a view to clearer clarification. If the Storting's will is followed up, I believe that it is possible in and around sheltered watercourses to operate industrial activities and build small power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1114	It was a quiet summer morning along the eleven right by where I grew up, such a morning as everything is carefree. It's just the sound of the river and the rainy stones, and the tiny fishing rod and the tiny spinner meant all too a boy in ten years. It happened quickly, and I still remember that moment when there was a trout, completely blank, in the riverstones. I had never seen such a fish before, I never thought it was possible to get such a fish. There was a moment that I'm always going to remember, and that I'm sure all people will experience. That's where my political commitment started. I didn't know it then, but I got it later. I'm very pleased that the 11th, Etna, was protected in Protection Plan IV. Some of my good friends are sitting in the gallery today. They have worked well for the protection of rivers throughout their lives, and up to several of them have lived for many years. Without Per, without Erik, without Inger and without Jon, Kjell and Jan Olav, Norwegian nature had looked different. Much more would have been destroyed for all time. Our rivers are irreplaceable. A water draw engineer may be able to construct a pond, a tunnel or a threshold, but he can never construct a watercourse. It can never be constructed by a watercourse engineer, because the rivers and our watercourses are too diverse. It's one of the main reasons why we live here in this country, that we're so impressed by this nature, that we're so fascinated by nature, and that someone will come here and let themselves be fascinated. This is a great day for the more than 50 unique watercourses that are today going to be protected, and that will be allowed to live freely forever. But there are some people who don't fully understand the value of pristine nature, who still believe that expanding rivers is a good idea. That's not a good idea. That's a bad idea. It's like firing in the fireplace with stave church portals. In the next round, we're going to protect the tissue, because the tissue will never be built up – there are not enough arguments to destroy the foxes, the irons, the fishing grounds and the coals. So I'm glad that today's Nausta, Bjerkreim, the Tovdal watercourse is being protected. Next time, the Wefsna will join us, along with all the other 70 rivers and even more rivers that deserve to be left untouched forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1128	It's a saying that when the starting point is crazy, the result is going to be the original one. Today we have witnessed a very private performance. It is with great wonder that I record that it is quoted from private letters from Stortinget’s pulpit. There is the frustration of a landowner that a special watercourse, the Åbothetal in Rogaland, has been proposed to be included in the protection plan of the Government, which has had broad support among the political parties on the Stortinget all the way in the process. The owner's frustration is real enough, but when it is presented here with false assumptions, it becomes very wrong. There are assumptions and frustrations created by representatives in this room, unfortunately. This illustrates the need to be extremely careful about quotations — especially from individuals — in posts in this room. That is also the case in Section 40 of Stortinge’s Rules of Procedure. The representative of Klungland was very clear before his release in his view of the Sauda Rivers. These wanted the Workers' Party not to protect. He has preached the same way here today. But for a small period of time, three days ago, they supported the government of this in the setting. Now you've almost given the feeling that this is something you've been pressured into. I don't think that should be undisputed, because that has never happened. The government parties have never put any pressure on the Workers' Party in this matter. It wasn't necessary. Rather on the contrary, he asked to be set free, and he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1138	I want to stretch under two conditions. It's one for the 100 meter belt, and the other for how important it is with good local processes. The centre party is very pleased that there is a broad plurality behind clear formulations on a practice that has led to interaction with local authorities when it comes to the practice of the hundred-meter belt. First of all, it is important to be clear that, from the very beginning, there are attitudes and experiences that require the Council of State to be very careful about the follow-up to its officials. Secondly, it is underlined from many that good local processes are important. We thought the management of the birch stream was a good example of a good local process. Mountains themselves showed early on the sensible use of their watercourse. So they made their own decisions on the 30-meter limit. They have deliberately facilitated outdoor interests and travel lives, and have also balanced it by asking for small power plants. And they've been listening. Nausta is an example of a community that has not been heard. They paved the way for a multi-use project. They had reason to believe all the way to surrender that in any case the Center Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party were going to support them, so that they could continue their project. The working party jumped off in the last turn. So third, the Åbotal: there hasn't been a good local process. There has been no requirement for protection locally, nor has there been any opportunity for them to say anything from or to do so. It's very clear that the upper part has a protective interest. It came out by the Sauda extension, so there's no expansion. But there are some basic owners there who have engaged. They want to borrow the water further down, use it to power, and then once again let it go out into the river. They have not had the opportunity to be heard. I would like the Council of State to be aware of that application when it is now open for minor expansion also in protected watercourses. The central party believes that the Åbodenal river should be subject to normal treatment in the case of protection. The workers' party has flagged it very high. They have suggested that local authorities, landowners, organisations and various interests should be heard. The only logical thing about the Labour Party is then to vote in favour of proposal No. 25 to show it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1153	It is gratifying that today the bulk of the population goes in to ensure the protection of the birch stream, which is the only remaining major watercourse in Rogaland. Most other protected watercourses in the county are small and have no power potential, for example. on the Iron. So it's one of the most protective watercourses that was now under assessment in the protective plan. Rogaland has few and small sheltered watercourses. It is particularly important to protect watercourses where expansion will have major negative consequences, as is the case with the birch stream. Within the water catchment area are some of the last areas of wild land and non-interventional nature in Rogaland; we can't afford to lose them. The river is one of the most valuable salmon rivers in the country. The birch watercourse is the largest remaining in Rogaland, which is somewhat unaffected by the expansion of power. No scientific authority is in doubt about the protection value of that jewel in the rogaland nature. It is about securing this watercourse with its rich animal and plant life, a variety of landscape types, valuable cultural environments and salmon fishing. The birch watercourse is unique. In terms of protection, the area is given very protective status in terms of all protection criteria: geological diversity, biodiversity, landscape, outdoor life and the cultural environment. In Rogaland is well over 70 pst. of the county's hydropower potential, poor 8 pst. is protected. We have built out enough and protected too little. The Government proposed, and it is now becoming the majority, that the concession treatment of small power plants up to 3 MW be permitted for the birch watercourse in particular. It is important that the protection values of the birch creme watercourse should not be assessed differently from other protected watercourses. Thus, the decision on a limit of 3 MW in the birch cree watercourse is not a signal to the concession authority that, in the case of concession applications, the protection values of the birch cree watercourse are to be assessed at a lower or more discretionary level in the proceedings than in the case of other important protected watercourses. The decision now taken by the Stortinget in the case of Bjerkreim does not indicate that other protected watercourses are subject to a limit higher than l MW. Therefore, and becoming, the border of the birch watercourse is a pure exception, as the Government has specified. The limit of 3 MW cannot, and shall not, be considered free to deploy power plants up to 3 MW. On the contrary, the very high protection values of the birch watercourse mean that much is needed to provide a concession for a force build-up in the watercourse, regardless of the limit, since these high protective values can be so easily impaired by power build-up. Therefore, today’s decision is not a power building power up to 3 MW. The protection criteria shall be applied through the concession treatment and a concession may only be granted where it is possible to exploit the watercourse without damaging the protection values. Yes, a prerequisite for granting a concession would be that the protection values are not impaired.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1170	Having had the word earlier today, I will try to be brief. I am pleased that there is a comment in the position on Urdvollva in Bindal municipality in Nordland – when you have chosen to include it in the protection plan – that the protection should not prevent the planned limestone quarry from being operated. In such a small municipality, it is important that you have business development, and it was also very well received that you had received this comment. If you develop that project, that means about. 30 jobs. But then I have to file a little visit. I have to say that it is quite amazing to hear both the representatives of Geir-Ketil Hansen and Hallgeir H. Langeland start telling and teaching the Storting that Weefsna is a great watercourse. That's it! But at the same time, it's a huge expansion of hydropower. Here, when the time comes, you have to look at the issues that you're going to have on the table. When you put it out of the Great Council's pulpit, you might want to keep a little bit more in mind. Yes, the big builders get to expand the power to 1.5 TWh, but it is not said that there will be major environmental interference in nature. So one should look at this a little bit. And then at the same time, I'd like to ask, if you hadn't had the expansion you've had in our county, in Northern Ireland, what would it have looked like in terms of industry and industrial development? It had almost been black. What is the situation, which we must soon begin to take over, is that there is a lack of force in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1181	In the past, the Coastal Party has agreed that the municipality of Naustdal and Sunnfjord Energie will develop eleven Nausta in Sunnfjord. The Nausta multi-use project is interesting, because it represents an interesting combination of use and protection of the watercourse. The multi-use plan is special given that there is a reverse planning process in which environmental values are to come first. I am also familiar with the ‘Nausta — A Future for the Wilderness’ initiative, which is a research project to develop the salmon strain in Nausta. I therefore went in so that Nausta would stand outside the protective plan, in order to continue this work. Now the Government plus the Workers' Party has protected Nausta, and so the Government and the Workers' Party have ruined the possibility of an exciting and interesting research project. The majority have exceeded a majority in the municipality. The majority of the population have said that no matter what kind of research is available to reduce destruction and create new and environmentally friendly solutions, there is no room for such solutions to be implemented in practice. The Coastal Party believes that there are great opportunities in Wefsna to build small power plants. In this way protection and environmentally friendly power plants are provided. In the old days, we had the squalls around in the watercourses. No one would say that they were environmentally destructive; on the contrary, they are now perceived as protective cultural memories. Furthermore, it is emphasised that the development of small-scale power plants can lead to large-scale power generation. We in the Coastal Party see it as a challenge for the river owners to be able to control this development and to facilitate their economic participation in the planning process. Today there is a danger that large power companies will be able to manage these huge resources, because the river owners lack capital to use the resources. We are interested in the need to make arrangements so that the river owners have reasonable capital at their disposal so that they can control the development themselves. The Coastal Party agrees with the Centre Party on a case concerning the addition of the Protection Plan for Watercourses. There is a need for a break in protecting watercourses. It is important to point out that in Norway 1/3 of the land catchment areas belong to protected watercourses. Therefore, increasing protection will have more and more consequences for the rural population and for the municipalities. The municipalities are in a tumult in the case of watercourses. On the one hand, the Government wants the municipalities and county councils to lose the power that has been developed, and on the other hand, the Government and the Stortinget will continue to protect watercourses. We at Stortinget cannot push the municipalities harder in this case. The municipalities are losing, and the industry has already given up. Hydro escapes abroad with its aluminium production, industrial sites like Årdal and Høyanger are in danger, and Mo i Rana may lose its power. The last ten years have been an adventure for environmental protection, but you can't live on air and beautiful mountains alone. People have to have work, otherwise they move. The center part will have a protective break, and so will we. We also want an assessment of whether the protection work has not already gone too far. Otherwise, the Coastal Party is against the country being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1204	Geir-Ketil Hansen is currently the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1207	It wasn't because of the last sentence I took the word, but it was to Tor-Arne Stroem, who doesn't understand why SV goes in to protect the tissue. I would say very briefly: 80 pst. hydropower resources in the Nordic countries are being developed. To put it at the top: at the bottom of almost every fjord in Northernland, there is a power plant. We have a large surplus of power in Northern Ireland, and almost half of the power produced in Northern Ireland is exported. The time for the large hydropower deployments is over, and we have so much money to afford to protect the Wefsna, which, in relation to the NVE and the Directorate of Nature Management, has fulfilled all the protection quality criteria. That's why SV goes in to protect Web!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1214	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1654]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1230	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1239	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on my post. This is a situation that is relatively short and which also brings together a broad majority behind it. This case is based on St.prp. No 17 for 2004-2005, submitted by the Government, and Chapter 3 for the LRA, or the storage of so-called low-radioactive waste, to which the debate applies. In the proposal, the Government assumes that Norway has a need to address our waste problems related to this type of waste. We have different locations of this, maybe at random, along the coast, and we have a great need to establish a professionally good disposal site that can take care of all the safety considerations necessary for radioactive waste. Given that different governments and different environmental protection ministers have been very committed to Sellafield, which was later crowned with victory, it is clear that we also have an independent national responsibility to deal with this at our own home. That's what the government has taken the consequences of in St.prp. No 17. What's in the proposition is that the government is asking for a state guarantee of up to $5 million. kr in connection with a landfill in the municipality of Sokndal. It is in short text that the Government asks for the Storting. So after the proposition was made – and I clarify it, after the government made its proposition – there have been some objections and uncertainties about the will of Sokndal to accept this special facility, while at the same time we are informed about, even in line with what is in the proposition, that there is work going on in the Gulen in Sogn and Fjordane. It has been shown that there has been some confusion especially about where Sokndal would stand. There has been a lot of communication per. letters and pers. telephone, and an additional Presidency and local government meeting was held in Sokndal after the presentation of the proposal, where it is relatively clear that one is skeptical and that there is likely to be resistance in Sokndal to this facility now. But at the same time, the municipality of Sokndal has been tidy and said that if the Stortinget maintains a location to Sokndal, they will of course take responsibility for the decisions they have made in the past. What is the majority’s position in this case is that the Government is authorised to provide a State guarantee of 5 million. kr, and that the Government itself assesses its location. That is in total what is contained in the majority proposal. I would recommend it, and believe this is the right way to deal with this matter in the light of the uncertainties that have arisen and that the Committee felt the need to elaborate a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1263	I think it is affordable that the government is now trying to create a permanent storage system for the LRA, which has been stored at different temporary bases along our coast to as much as 200 tonnes – and it will probably increase on. We know that deposits are formed in pipes and installations, and as several installations from the base are demolished, there will also be a problem with the permanent storage of this material. I think it was right to draw the case before Christmas. It was created quite a lot of uncertainty, not least from the Sokndal municipality itself, in relation to the guarantee that was specifically addressed to the landfill there. As the Advocate General pointed out, in retrospect, the idea that the property is undesirable in Sokndal is almost possible, both through Presidency decisions and municipal government decisions. This is probably due to the fact that the case for the host municipality has changed a lot since it was first launched in 1988. In the meantime, the Yellow option has also emerged, a landfill option that lies by the sea, close to the base, where no intermediate landfills are necessary and no transport by public roads. However, the time aspect is also important, of course, one wants to do this as soon as possible. In my opinion, there should not be such a big difference in time for these two options, as the Sokndal option involves a mountain facility that it takes a little less than a year to build. In addition, emissions have not been requested for the processing to be carried out at the intermediate storage sites in Florø, Stord and Sotra. In the case of Yellow, there is now an impact assessment for treatment in the Straw liver. Both parts are well designed to take a year. I believe for myself that it's natural to have a landfill as close as possible to the site of origin, that is, the base, so that you don't process on the bases and then transport by land for 50 miles, and that you can rather put it in a mountain deposit that's below the surface of the sea. Statoil has also written a contract with the Municipality of Yellow. But I think the matter has now been put to good use. We give a neutral mandate to the Government, and the Government assesses the entire complex and identifies the uncertainties that have been mentioned. I am sure that we will then have a forward-looking and good solution, which also has the necessary local support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1272	Very short: SV has an alternative proposal, and I take up the proposal that one should have the matter back before the final decision in Stortinget. We were very surprised when things suddenly appeared from the big point of view and one was going to decide on a landfill on Sokndal without having an assessment of the alternatives. There is now a clear signal in the setting, and from Halleraker on the last, on the direction this is going in. But we still choose from SV's side to say that the Storting should make the final decision, not the Government by proxy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1279	Then the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1282	This matter concerns a State guarantee to this property for the LRA, which is required for us to get in place. When the Government promotes this proposal, it is not like we are promoting this without making the necessary assessments in relation to localisation choices. The government has done that. We then proposed in connection with St.prp. No 17 that only one plant would receive a State guarantee, and we also suggested that it was Sokndal who would get it. I see that the Committee agrees with the Government that a State guarantee should be provided, but that the Government is authorised to make the location of such a facility. This is based on, as various speakers here have said, that there has been some uncertainty, not least incited by the Sokndal Municipality itself, in terms of the willingness to maintain this Sokndal option. Having said that, I have understood that the Sokndal Municipal Council believes that, if you were to start again on a free basis, they would doubt whether you would then be in favour of it – they said they would go against such a type of landfill – but that you would not necessarily decide to lift the decision that has already been made. In summary, I feel a strong need to say today that the difference in the possible timing of the completion of the two landfills is approximately. half a year – Sokndal in the 2005–06 turn of the year, and Yellow, as it stands today, will be possible to reach summer 2006. Then there's nothing to hide that for every day that goes without Sokndal getting such a kind of state guarantee, the difference between these two options will be smaller. What I can add is that, of course, the department will now review these different options, go through the material available, and then we'll make a decision on where this deposit is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1291	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1659]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1307	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1316	From the representatives of Sandberg, Andersen, Knudsen, Vaksdal and Korsberg, a Document No. Eight proposals under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The Committee has been divided into two, the representatives of the Progress Party being the minority of the Committee. I shall briefly explain the Committee's observations and the majority's comments and recommendations. I'm assuming that the minority itself will explain its vision. The Committee points out that the county council and the state planning authorities, including the county council, as well as the neighbouring municipalities, may raise objections to municipal plan decisions. The object of the objection mechanism is to ensure that overall interests are safeguarded in municipal spatial planning. The Committee has noted that, in many cases, there is a partly high level of conflict between the county and the municipalities in cases where the county has objected. It is worth noting that the central government of the Municipal Communities has decided that today’s county office must be deprived of the opportunity to review local discretion and that the municipalities must be given more decision-making powers at the expense of the county. The Committee points out that the Planlov Committee in NOU 2003:14 delivered a comprehensive opinion proposing amendments to the Planning and Building Act. In the opinion of the Committee, a comprehensive follow-up to that work could contribute to better local governance and increased local self-government. In this context, the Committee considers that it may be appropriate to carry out a more thorough review of the instrument of opposition. The Committee points out here that the Plan Law Committee mentions the possibility of setting up more independent and judicially-like review bodies — without the selection itself going into it in detail. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of the Environment will consider this issue further in the follow-up to the Plan Law Committee’s proposal. The Committee shall display, inter alia: to Ot.prp. No 113 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. O. No 67 for 2002 to 2003 on the time limit for raising objections. The Committee asks the Government to consider, in the further follow-up to the Plan Law Committee, the setting of time limits for combating long-term proceedings. The Committee also points out that there is a debate on the middle level of Norwegian administration, including the proposals of the District Commission. Follow-up to these proposals also involves a debate on the county office and the tasks it may have in the future. So the committee splits. The majority of the Committee does not support proposals to remove the right of objection, as promoted in this document No. The 8th proposal. An winding-up of the right of objection on the basis of a Document No. In the majority's view, 8 proposals in the Storting will be a relatively dramatic change on a thin basis. Finally, the majority of the Committee stresses that: «objectives shall be presumed to exercise great caution in overseeing the local authority's political judgement»; as stated in the Ministry of the Environment's circular 5/95. The same circular also states: ‘Since the institution of objection is the instrument of the county and state bodies for the follow-up of national and regional policies, only important issues of conflict which are at the heart of the decision should, as far as possible, be at issue.’ The last two points are very important. In short, it is about using their right of reason and concentrating on the issues that are important. Finally, inter alia, on the basis of the criteria mentioned above from Circular 5/95, there is no doubt that the right of objection is being abused. There is also no doubt that the right of objection for some has become a re-combatant. That's bad democracy. It is also bad democracy that this leads to uncertainty and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1350	The question of the right of objection is an important question and a question that concerns many. This right is the possibility for national authorities to ensure that overall interests are safeguarded in municipal planning. In addition, regional authorities also have the possibility to object. Unfortunately, in some cases the level of conflict between the county and local authorities is high and has, among other things, formed a backstop to the decision last March by the Central Government of the Municipalities of the Federal Republic of Germany to work towards the waiver of the opportunity to review local political discretionary practices. Many local politicians are of the opinion that a democratic local policy decision should not be overshadowed by a bureaucracy. It is now that the Ministry of the Environment circular 5/95 stresses that: ‘Awareness-raising bodies are assumed to exercise great caution in overseeing the local authority’s political judgement’. Furthermore, it is also emphasised that the right of objection should be exercised only in the event of important national circumstances. Unfortunately, examples have shown that the right of objection has been used in several cases, such as a unanimous – or almost unanimous – local government. I have a great deal of understanding of the frustration experienced by the local police when the right of objection is used and their judgement is overestimated. Often local policy decisions are a result based on long processes with broad knowledge and anchoring in the community affected by the decision. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of the Environment will take a closer look at the issue of right of objection in the context of the further follow-up to the Plan Law Committee's proposal. Furthermore, I would also like to stress the wish of an overall committee asking the Government to consider the introduction of deadlines to counteract long-term proceedings, which are also perceived as a disadvantage from the local authorities’ point of view. Furthermore, it is positive that time limits have already been set for the right of the relevant authorities to raise objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1372	In this case too, we see that respect for local democracy is virtually non-existent in this Chamber. Once again, we are proved that the great celebrations of local democracy are not worth anything when it comes to it. It is the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring that decisions in the municipal plan are in line with national guidelines and with the provisions of the law, and it is the municipalities that are responsible for taking decisions in a professional and formal manner. However, in order to ensure continued compliance with the State leadership on land and land matters and to ensure compliance with the interests of other municipalities and regional authorities, a right of objection has also been established. If the relevant State professional authorities, county councils or neighbouring municipalities have raised objections to the area part of a municipal plan, the municipality cannot, pursuant to the law of Section 20-5, fifth paragraph, take decisions without agreement between the municipality and the objector. If there is no agreement, nor after mediation, the matter goes to the Ministry of the Environment for final decision. It is not explicitly delegated to the county council to control the municipalities, as well as to deal with legal complaints following municipal decisions. The reason for raising objections was not intended to be an arrangement that the various bodies could use in time and in time to demonstrate that they had different judgements than the individual municipality. On the other hand, there was a mechanism that was strictly limited to a conflict resolution model for the very few cases where the municipality was unable to deal with planning matters in line with national guidelines. Nevertheless, we see that the municipalities are constantly experiencing the detailed objections of the statesmen as problematic, especially because they act as a veto in practice. Experience also suggests that the members of the county are not at all deterred from using the opposition institute. It is the opinion of the Planlov Committee that the municipal planning processes should be democratic and governed by elected bodies. But with constant opposition from the statesmen, it is impossible to achieve this objective. The provisions of the Planning and Building Act on the right of objection are undoubtedly a limitation of the powers of the Municipal Self-Government. Central authorities have tried to take this into account by encouraging bodies with a right of objection to exercise great care in promoting objection and, therefore, in effectively reviewing municipal decisions. This also shows the majority of the committee, but it is precisely because this care is obviously not exercised that we believe that the Storting must now take action. We see that the other members of the committee have recorded that in many cases there is a partly high level of conflict between the county and the municipalities in cases where the county has objected. We also see that the other members of the Committee are already familiar with the precautionary principles recommended by the Ministry of the Environment for ten years by the opposition bodies, without having had the desired results. The experience of Kommune-Norge is contrary to the fact that, in particular, the county councillors strongly promote objections far beyond what can be defended in the context of the Ministry of the Environment's circular. There are growing reports that the county councillors are increasingly overseeing municipal discretion, although the interpretation of municipalities is consistent with the existing national guidelines and is based on local policy discretion. It is therefore the case that representatives of the county councillors act as political actors in such cases. We have little reason to believe that the Ministry of the Environment is now suddenly in a position to ensure that the statesmen follow the intentions they have been making for ten years. We believe that this time Stortinget has to show the power of action and make clear that today's practice is not acceptable. The Storting should listen to the statements of the Communes' Central Federation. On 25 March 2004, the Central Board of the KS unanimously decided that today’s county office must be deprived of the opportunity to review local political judgement and that municipalities must be given more decision-making powers at the expense of the county council. It is a clear indication that they do not believe that new circulars, or reminders of existing circulars, will produce satisfactory results. The Progress Party is committed to the development of municipal autonomy. Local authorities must therefore avoid the permanent review of local democratic decisions by the county council. At the same time, of course, it must not be such that each municipality should be able to powder Norwegian law by referring to local discretion. Municipalities must have a wide range of opportunities to use discretion, but that discretion must be within the framework of the law. The problem with the objections of the statesmen has not been linked to stopping crimes by the municipalities, but precisely to over-estimation of judgement. The Progress Party believes that legislative control of municipal level decisions still needs to be exercised, but that the exercise of discretion should be entirely based on local democratic functions. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1407	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1410	I take the floor because when you hear the party of progress here, it seems like it's just those who are concerned with local maritime government, and that's not it. There is a joint committee, all except the Progress Party, which supports much of the intentions of this proposal, but which appears to be too drastic to make such major changes in a Document No. Eight proposals. I support that. As an old rapporteur, I have experienced this on the body, that in many contexts the county exercises discretion and reviews local decisions. We think that's completely wrong. It must be such that the county must have control and legality tasks only. It is necessary that there is now a tightening up, and I am therefore happy that the KS has taken this up. It is also very fine, now that we also have the Minister for the Environment here, that the Council of State will take a closer look at this issue in the follow-up to the Plan Law Committee's proposal. There is probably a large majority who actually want the tasks of the statesmen to be tightened up in this area, so that they only have to do with legality and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1421	I can confirm that the Department will consider the issue of more independent and judicial review bodies in the follow-up to the Planlov selection. The Plan Law Selection has discussed the relationship between national interests and municipal planning and has made several related proposals, including: when objecting to and using this scheme. I have noticed that the selection suggests continuing with this scheme, but with some changes. I have also noticed that in the hearing on the Plan Law Selection, there are few – if any – who are calling for this scheme to be abolished today. It is also important to note that the Ministry of the Environment today decides between 30 and 40 objections each year. It is a very small part of the 2000–3 000 control plans that the municipalities themselves approve, and the 200 municipal plans and municipal plans that one approves. The issues that come to the ministry show that it is not always easy to determine when local interests will go ahead of national concerns. There are not always signs that will be followed. Moreover, the municipalities have not always correctly interpreted their national meanings. It's those matters that apply in the specific case, that decide. I think it's a goal that the use of incisors should be reduced. It is an important task for governmental authorities to make the municipalities aware of the space they have when creating plans. Good contact between municipalities and regional authorities early in the planning process can prevent later conflicts and, therefore, use of opposition to municipal plans. It turns out that most of the cases find their solution locally. I'm glad. I will follow up the signals that have come from the majority of the committee today, but will also point out that the system of right of objection according to my opinion is working well, but of course we are working to make it work even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1439	Although the majority of this room is aware of and in the notes expresses concern about the level of conflict between municipalities and the county, unfortunately, little action is shown to do something about this today. However, I would like to ask the Council of State what he will actually do to follow up the signals which, despite all the Committee's comments, have given, and what possible sanctions he might intend to apply if the objectives are not achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1444	The Ministry will consider the issue of more independent and judicial review bodies in the follow-up to the Planlov Selection. The plan selection has discussed the relationship between national interests and municipal planning and makes several proposals in this regard, and that is what we will address in our follow-up to the Plan Law Selection. But I want to be clear that we believe this system is important. So, as I say, today there are between 2,000 and 3,000 things being treated at municipal level. So it's in 1 pst. of the objectors who are thus dealt with by the Ministry. We believe that the system works well, but we still want a decrease in the use of countersigns, and we are therefore working to get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1454	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1469	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli shall apply for leave from 26 February to 4 March to take part in the 49th session of the United Nations Commission on Women’s Rights in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Mette Korsrud, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1484	Then we would be ready to go to voting in case no. 1 to 4. The President does not feel quite sure that he has a full overview of how the various parties intend to vote, but if it gets too wrong, you'll get to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1494	During the debate, 25 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-6, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7-11, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left Party proposals No. 12-25, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 13-25 of the Centre Party, except for proposals Nos. 14 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1588	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 and 20, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1612	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Nedalselva is not included in the Watercourse Protection Plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e1629	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7-11, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2144	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2182	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2584	The President has understood that the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2621	The President expects the Socialist Left Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2639	The President expects the Progress Party and the Center Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2675	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2693	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2726	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size request of the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2005 Revised State Budget, recommend to the Stortinget the location of LRA deposit facilities with a State guarantee of 5 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2742	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I had to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2749	In this way, the 84-to-15-vote proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2768	During the debate, Mr Voksdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget which removes the right of objection of the county council in municipal planning and land decisions.2. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for its own administrative court/supervisory to deal with complaints under municipal plan decisions.3. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the assessment of the access to justice for political decisions in the municipalities.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-18.ana.ud1548e2856	Here the President is obliged to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on Transport was sent to the Committee on Transport for consideration and has notified back that it finds it difficult to deal with it, because it is outside its field of competence. The Presidency has thus concluded that the best thing will be that the matter is put out for review and dealt with directly in the Chamber. The President therefore proposes that the matter be brought to the attention of the members of the matter for at least one day and then entered on the map for consideration, cf. Article 28, third paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure.
