ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e30	There is a broad, basic deal on rural and regional policy in Norway. All parties will make use of the entire country. At the same time, few policy areas have been so influenced by symbolism and symbol rhetoric, well mixed with historically important lines of conflict in Norwegian policy, between centre and periphery. Left speaking a few years ago about the need for a more honest district debate. The government has contributed to this. Unfortunately, it doesn't make the opposition in the red alliance the same degree. The setting is again full of honorary words and symbolisms without real substance, other than traditional economic excesses on some measures. But perhaps some think about the government of Stoltenberg, where the Minister of Finance was Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. Remember how high the interest rate was at that time? Do they remember how the crown course threatened industry and other jobs in the districts? Do they think of the district uprising and that Stoltenberg had to travel to Vadsø? And do they think how many people came together to protest? I think we should remind each other of this when the representative Schjött-Pedersen and the others in the red opposition are trying to create a great political distance in this field and appear as the districts' great rescue. We can also remember the central government, which has initially been the most district-friendly government in Norway. Even then, people moving around, and the particular measures we tried, didn't fundamentally change the movement current. The left will have a good national policy that facilitates jobs and well-being in all parts of the country. A sober economic policy and the fight against populist overcrowding policies are an important part of this. The left will have a good regional policy where the county has an important role as a development actor with great freedom to use resources on the basis of its own assessments, not centralized by Oslo. We want a good district policy for the specifically exposed areas where a special tool is needed to ensure that businesses and communities survive in the future. In all of these areas, the Government provides – in the form of a good, honest analysis and a good policy. It does not help with rhetoric and promises of more active policies and an excessive belief that different funds should be a Sarepta pot outside the normal budget and priorities. District and regional policies cannot be seen primarily as specific, as a driver on the side of and in addition to the other major policies. On the contrary, using the whole country is a task that must permeate all policies, not least economic policies, which are most decisive for jobs, households and municipalities, no matter where in the country they are. Well-being in municipalities and well-being through the private and civil economy, business policy and how we meet the globalised reality is of great importance to the construction of Norway. We cannot meet this with counter-power policies that do not take over the competition that Norwegian industry is facing. Education and research policy, transport policy, cultural policy, fisheries and agricultural policy, and indeed all policies, must have a broad national perspective, where the country is one and resources must be used everywhere. Therefore, it is not in the districts’ interest that one makes district policy something special and special, and where there are differences between city and country. The cities have their own specific challenges, and so have the inhabitants of different parts of the country. But together they are Norway, and a collective part of national policy. Then we must have confidence that the wit is evenly distributed, and decentralize and delegate power and responsibility. I note the red alliance's emphasis on the role of the state – against the government's belief in local decisions. There are many of the different areas I could have liked to comment on in my post, but I want to draw up something that I do not see mentioned in the committee setting, either in the Storing Message. There are many people today who want to move into the districts, get a large plot, maybe run with their own food production – in other words, live the good life in the countryside. The government has, for example, changed the concession law and by giving municipalities greater authority to ensure that small farms that are currently darkened can once again have light in the windows. Left wants to change upper case as well. If people want to bust themselves in a little bit more pig-grown strips, get the possibility, they also have to get the opportunity to buy a property that might be a little bit larger than one goal. Norway is going well, the number of start-ups is record high. It's always a challenge. The left does not believe in total harmony and contented societies, but in the whole country now has the best intentions to have a good life and create good societies. I'm not registering any district uprisings in Norway today. The noise level in the district debate is low. This indicates that the government's policy is working. We don't need so-called new policies, which are not so new, but are going back to a well-proven policy that doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e68	President! Can I get the word to correct an actual error?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e75	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen gets the floor for a manifest misunderstanding – but then he gets to stick to the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e78	I'm going to assure the president that I'm going to stick to the misunderstanding -- there were two actual mistakes. One is that the rise in the exchange rate occurred some time after the government change took place. As the representative of Vihovde will probably remember, the change of government took place in October 2001. The second actual error relates to the so-called district uprising in Finnmark, which was caused by a disturbance of the settlement of the county. It has, as you know, been opposed to the Workers' Party. – This is contrary to a concern for which there is a greater basis at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e83	As usual, the president of the opinion is that this is not what is being asked for the word of a manifest misunderstanding. This could have been done by the representative under a different heading, and it is a misuse of Storting’s Rules of Procedure and speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e86	The Coastal Party is committed to further developing attractive and viable communities through an active and competitive business and equivalent service provision across the country, with a view to maintaining the main features of the settlement pattern and developing local communities to be stronger in a future Norway, where there is a stronger focus on districts. By doing so, we believe that Norway needs to be developed. We in the Coastal Party will not adhere to the rule of action to benefit from a reduced return on the petroleum fund in the country's economy. Now it's like none of the other parts of the Stortinget either stick to this rule. All the lots have an excess consumption of several dozens — nearly 100 billion dollars of the petroleum fund. We say clearly that we want such an expansive policy, while the other parties are spending the money and still insist that a tight economic policy must be pursued. The most important thing for the Coastal Party is to use the oil wealth to modernise the country. We will invest billions of dollars to modernise parts of the industry, to modernise the marine sector, to modernise and expand the infrastructure, to research in collaboration with industrial companies, to expand and modernise the health care system, where we will notice that we will also maintain local hospitals. This policy is abandoned by the Government. Not even the red-green option will support such an active economic policy as the Coastal Party. They justify it with a number of socio-economic theories that have proved not to vote. Because if these theories were true, we should already have experienced a debilitating inflation and a very weakened crown. But that hasn't happened. This means that the economic policy of the Coastal Party can be realized very well. Why won't the Government and the red-green option bet on Norway as we in the Coastal Party? The Petroleum Fund is currently almost managed at the request of banks, insurance companies and foreign investors. I have a feeling that we politicians have denied our responsibility for using oil money to bet on the homeland. Not only I, but Norwegian investors also look with great scepticism at our use of the petroleum fund. Look at the kerosene fund. This is one of the world's largest funds. But here you just have to put the money into foreign companies. What does that mean? We put the money right into our competitors. Have people really taken it in? That's what shipowner Fred asks. The Olsen about in an interview with the Economic Report. He repeats his criticism of the state's savings. After all, the purpose of the petroleum fund is to build up a savings box for the future without increasing inflation. Then the private sphere should also have access to the same, without paying taxes on these funds invested in Norwegian controlled companies. It's terrible. We should rather put up the policy so that there was room for Norwegian companies to operate and grow in Norway, says Fred. Olsen. He says the same thing as the Coast Party has said for a number of years. I would argue that if EU politicians had run in Norway and had had less money than Norway has to spend, Norway would already have had a new and more modern infrastructure, just to promote Norwegian business. How do we respond to these challenges? Well, we make tolls, a tolling system that is very expensive for Norwegian business. This is a policy that has been staged both by the Government and by the red-greens – the greens because they believe a cost-effective Norwegian business is a green alternative. There's never been such a relationship. It is always a profitable business that has led to new, modern and more environmentally friendly solutions. No one should be able to say about the California economy that it's being detained. But there we have thought thoughts, even, there we have modern solutions, there we have the ICT industry Mecca.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e107	Politics is often about spending money. All politicians took part in a race to allow as much as possible for the best possible good purposes such as schooling, health and care for the elderly or police and transport. Some parties also drive and struggle to enter for the lowest possible taxes. This too easily leads to increased use of money, because in that case private consumption will increase. Telling us what we want to spend more money on, whether it's safe retirement or lower housing taxes, is an important part of the political parties' task. The problem is that we all spend more time and get more attention when we talk about how to use more, not when talking about how to secure income. Unfortunately, regional policy is not one of the most widespread policy issues in much of the country. It shouldn't be like that, and it hasn't always been like that. The Labour Party has previously entered election campaigns with large posters saying, "We build the country", and it has our images of excavators and power streets. The time should not come back, but more attention should be paid to how to ensure value creation in this country is of great importance. This is why regional policy is one of the most important things we are working on. It requires policy-makers to dare to be active within the boundaries of the international regulatory framework for all countries. This legislation means a different role than before, unless political governance and less State aid. Had the EEA agreements existed in the 1950s, many of our large state companies would never have been established, and ESA had probably found a paragraph in the EU oil directive that had made it impossible to build up the Statoils and Hydro oil division in the 1970s. We may as well, but the framework for regional and regional policy is completely different today than before. Before we could grant state aid to Norwegian companies, we could provide cheaper electricity, we could go in with licenses to companies that were heavy-duty, we could assign assignments to Norwegian companies without thinking about foreign competitors. That time is up. But we still have tools, and it has to be used. The stronger and more open international competition, the more important it is that we use the tools we have. We have to get an interaction between the market and the public, between the companies and the state. We need to see possibilities and be creative. Therefore, authorities must actively participate in regional and district development, together with regions, municipalities and organisations. Regional policy is about a lot. We want an active regional policy, that the state should commit itself and not just lean back and leave as far as possible to the market. When we look at it, we can say that kindergarten policy, school and education policy, equality policy, yes, all welfare policy is the same as a good regional policy. The World Economic Forum has brought together the Nordic welfare states of the best countries for business. It's not random. A safe human being is a creative human being. It sounds boring, but I have to start with the words 'order of the economy'. A stable exchange rate, low inflation, low interest rates and defence budget policies are important for developments in Norwegian regions. We need to strengthen both private and public research and innovation, to ensure that we have legs to stand on even after the oil. Competence must be a driving force in the process of conversion, renewal and re-establishment. Our natural resources are and will continue to be the driving force in the creation of wealth throughout the country. Innovation Norway is an important instrument, which must have both the money and the right skills to help businesses in the districts when the need is at a vulnerable start-up stage. Unfortunately, the government and the majority of the population have built up many of these tools. The majority cut in the budget of Innovation Norway at every opportunity, and they have also not prioritised research and development well enough. Developed welfare systems and good distribution policies provide good district policies. The State must take responsibility for ensuring efficient infrastructure. There must be a holistic and efficient transport policy, with investment and enough to operate and maintain roads. We need to ensure broadband for all parts of the country, and we need to provide the industry with enough energy at a competitive price within the EEA legislation. We must be willing to use the gas in Norway, not just sell it to other countries. - I see the time is up, President, but I can go on!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e130	No, the President doesn't think so!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e133	The Communication on Regional Policy presented by the Government has defined two clear regional policy objectives. One is to take care of the main features of the housing pattern, concretely to the balance of residence between parts of the country in a 20-year perspective, the other is to exploit the value creation potentials of all parts of the country. That's the two main goals we have. The two main objectives are there because it is the basic thing for us to have jobs and communities that will work in the future. When we have defined a regional policy, it is to say that there are different strategies in different parts of the country that are needed to trigger the different parts of our value creation potentials. Norway is still a country where the main gravity of our business life can be traced back to resources that cannot be cultivated primarily through the activities of cities, but are about interaction. The rapporteur tries to make it a point that we have called this a Communication on regional policy and not a Communication on regional and regional policy. We have done this to stress that this is not a message that concerns only the traditional areas where extra efforts and instruments are put in place. Regional policy is also concerned with interactions and activity in all parts of the country, whether within or outside the scope of the action. However, it is also clear from this Communication that additional efforts are required in those areas that face the greatest challenges of the more traditional type in the districts and that are about relocation and other. It requires extra attention, but it also requires politicians who are willing to be realistic. And I'm sorry, I think there's been a lot of violent words. I think there's so much rhetoric in regional and regional political debates that I actually don't understand how to say as much as some say. The representative, Karl Eirik Schjøett-Pedersen, has annually reduced the effort made in terms of regional and regional policy in relation to the original draft budget in 2001 – every year he has prioritised something more than regional and regional policy in relation to what he did the year before, although it has always been a little more than what the Government does. That's always a little bit more. However, the small ‘more’ does not defend the kind of use the Labour Party uses in terms of district and regional policy. So I basically agree with what Uppøen Hansen said: It is terribly important to keep order in the economy. It is extremely important for district policy to do so, because the most vulnerable businesses and the most vulnerable jobs we have in this country are in competitive business. It's mainly in District Norway we have large parts of this, and the Finnmark coast knows that very well. But then it is not just responsible policies and balances in the krone price that are important. It's actually just as important if you have red numbers or if you're going with profit. And then tax relief is very important for District Norway. For the economic sustainability of their businesses in competitive business depends on the wage pressure we have. It depends on the costs and charges to be paid. And there's some of the things that have contributed to us now having optimism in District Norway. In particular, the measurements say that there is currently a strong optimism in North Norway. This is due, inter alia, to: that not only the whole has been chosen, not only to have a balance, but actually to stimulate this through tax relief. The challenges we face in our country from a regional and district policy perspective need to be met in several ways. The economic policy that contributes to good and stable business environment is the foundation. Without that, we're getting more and more centralization. And the answer is not a policy you've tried, which has given more and more centralization. It is also important to have policies to promote innovation and start-up adapted to regional variations. In this area, I think that several representatives have made good contributions to this debate in support of what is actually the Government's policy, what is contained in the communication, which we follow up with 22 million. kr in focus on innovation, with specific measures in the domestic and northern parts of Norway, in the revised national budget. Then we have also said that broad efforts are important to meet migration challenges in areas with a one-sided industrial structure and small labour markets. When the switchovers become too big, we also have to go on with exceptional measures at national level. But it's important that it doesn't undermine the division of responsibilities we've done, because the county council has actually got a responsibility to follow up the long-term migration challenges. Then we need a more systematic effort to develop attractive medium and small urban regions, because it is one of the key strategies to prevent even more centralisation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e156	The Council of State, and the Leader of the Right, were concerned about the use of language. I notice that when the government presented its first budget, the Right's current central government member, Jens Petter Ekorenes, called the cuts in district policy a disaster. The Prime Minister gave great prestige in the appointment of the District Commission. Two of the Commission's supporting and unanimous proposals were to give more emphasis to regional and regional policies in sectoral policy and to strengthen regional policy instruments. The government says a clear and unambiguous no to both. Isn't it to fool people when the government gives the Commission, with representatives of all political parties, great weight in their encounter with society and the media, and then completely disregard their unanimous advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e163	Let me then refer to what the Head of the District Commission said at the hearing with the Municipal Committee – I was not there, but I have heard it, and I have not heard it contradicted – that it is a good message we have made. And with regard to the arrangement we have in the municipal proposition for the work on the administrative areas, one has also added up to a good process. Then it is not possible to bring the District Commission forward and say that we are not following up, or otherwise, when we actually get the receipt from the manager that it is a good message. The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen emphasizes every time he talks about the District Commission, that they have said exactly the same thing as us: the most important and most fundamental is the framework conditions for stable economic development, and the ability to maintain a growth and viable competitive business. It's the foundation. They start there, and then they want more. They want more, and I also hear that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen wants it. And that's right, we don't take advantage of the space of action that exists in the legislation, but there isn't one party in this room that has budget proposals that exploit the space of action. It's about a few million in difference, not billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e170	I will be shown that the Progress Party has two proposals in its position, asking for a final evaluation of the County Council and proposals for a new structure. We will also assume that there will be two levels of government in Norway with direct popular governance. Does not the Council of State agree that such a final evaluation of the county municipality is soon to be needed and that two elected levels should be added? What is the Stasraad's comment that the Progress Party is standing alone with its proposals on this, which I thought was something the Right fully agreed with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e175	The government has no idea how many levels of government there will be. I personally, and the Party Right, believe that there should be two levels of government. But it's not like there's going to be two levels of government by adopting it here in the hall. The most important thing is to do the job that we've said we want to do until 2007. Then I understand that the majority wants a greater pace of finding out what are the prerequisites for the different options – whether you have three or two levels of government, how we're going to organise the tasks and what tasks it's going to be. It's easy to conclude on that, but where the Progress Party and the Right are likely to be separated, for example, is in how to distribute the problems. We want more tasks for the municipalities, while we experience that the Progress Party's response is often that several of these tasks should be transferred to the state and into other less governance systems. Then we don't agree on how the division of tasks should be, even if we agree on the result, in terms of two levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e182	One of the major findings from the Effect Committee was that the state was at the forefront of centralisation. This is due to the fact that there are no territorial considerations in sectoral policy and that neither does the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is to be the Ministry of Coordination, have the right to assume the role of the one who is to bring state policy together, where the overall result will ultimately be the best. The question is, does the Council of State recognise that her government's policy works this way? Is it the will of the Council of State to continue to centralise general sectoral policy? And so: the distribution of research efforts in Norway is very skeptical. We know that e.g. The TaxFUNN scheme hits some companies well, but others are very bad. Can the Council of State help change the scheme so that it also affects small businesses on the outskirts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e189	In a society that is in transition and changing, it is quite important to be alert about how the changes and changes take place, so that they do not seem centralising. But saying no to the fact that the transition and the change are happening, usually will never be a bouncy against it. That's why there are some things that this government has been busy about. We have e.g. decided to shift a number of supervision to the regional capitals to contribute to the balance between the different parts of the country, in order to compensate some of the centralisation of jobs through efficiency, automation and modernisation. But I record that the national meeting of SV and the national meeting of the Workers' Party have said no to relocating more jobs. This government shouldn't do that. It's also an interesting point, at least it's in the interpretation that these parties' Oslo representatives have of their own program. And it's not like you have one program in Oslo for the election, and one program anywhere else? What's interesting is that those who have the most ambitious program on paper in terms of relocation, namely the Center Party, will cooperate with those who currently have the least ambition in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e196	At one point the Government will receive support from the Central Party. It's in the outsourcing of workplaces. But I want to go back to the District Commission and their recommendations, because a recommendation is the decentralization of considerably more power from the state to the elected regional level. It was said that the need for a stronger popular regional level is well served. The conclusions of the various distributions converge with a governance reform that involves significant decentralisation of power. Previous recommendations are not followed up. There is now a need for implementation. You have been told the same thing by many people about this message, including myself. e.g. from the county selection in Rogaland. What is it that causes the Council of State, which otherwise takes the power of action to income in many cases, to push away from the training of a case for which there is broad evidence that there is a need?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e205	I'm actually getting a little upset, I, when the head of the Municipal Committee accuses me of training, when I follow a timetable that the Stortinget joined in the discussion of St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002 the first spring of this government. Then we presented the fact that we were going to evaluate the trials and the task differentiation that was. Then the government moved at the time of evaluating the county council, because it was a strong wish of the county rapporteurs to be able to prove the new trials, and what it was going to be, and that it would be too early to deliver this evaluation. It concluded a unanimous committee. Then I haven't trained one thing. I can't move on a plan that Stortinget has approved, because if some of the large-scale representatives outside this room express that they could now think of something else. I'm dealing with the signals that a unanimous bigotry has given me. I think that's what you're going to do when you're a councillor: to have respect for the calendars of the majority of the population. The fact that the county rapporteurs have regretted it because they think they now have a better momentum cannot change the fact that Stortinget and I have had a dialogue on this, and I have followed what has been agreed in that dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e212	As a result of the wording of which the Council of State was concerned, I might be allowed to continue with the Right rapporteur in Ballangen, who said: ‘What the government has done in district policy is frightening’. I notice the Council of State's mention of the District Commission. At the same time, I notice that the District Commission had four strategic proposals. One is the broad consensus, policy for change. The second, which is in the process of major regional reform, has actively argued against it. She's pushed it out in time. Keep it down, but the other two strategic key elements are thus a stronger emphasis on regional and regional policy considerations and a stronger use of regional policy instruments. If the Council of State believes that she has followed up on these three points, I think it is interesting if the Council of State can confirm it from the Spokesman's Chair: Does she think we should pay more attention to it? Does she mean that we need to strengthen the means of regional policy? If not, it must be allowed to say that then it is not much of the District Commission's setting found in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e222	This gives me the opportunity to say that Jens Petter Ekorenes is very pleased with what has happened after the four years, since he thought it was dangerous that Innovation Norway should not receive so much money. Things are going very well in the furniture industry on Sunnmowers these days. In fact, we are doing very well in the whole of Norway, because we have conducted a responsible economic policy where one of the elements is keeping public spending down, including that in the autumn of 2001 we reduced some of the money spent on Innovation in Norway's budget. So we've focused on some of that. We are increasing regional policy instruments in some areas. We've said that we're going to increase in business, we're going to increase incubators, and we're going to introduce the new concept of "Center of Expertise" and spend more money on it. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party's alternative budget in this area, not just for district policy, but for immigration, district policy and labour market policy, had 337 million. kr more than the Government. They had 337 million. In addition to the government, which was to cover labour market policy, immigration proposals and district policy, it is less than it had been cut in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e235	The government is putting in the message that we are now debating, to change the objective of regional and regional policy. This is to be done by clarifying the construction target to be growing in the population in all parts of the country over the next 20 years. I disagree with this point of view. The main goal must be to keep up the main features of the construction pattern and to facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country. The government's policy will represent a step backwards. In my view, however, he will be an opening for stronger centralization. I would like to take an illustration: if the decline in the population is growing in one or more counties in one part of the country, the government's new goal can be achieved by a strong growth in a municipality or a few municipalities. As a result, population developments in the region can be positive. This strategy is inconsistent with the Labour Party. The government strongly recommends that regional policy be of a stimulating nature. Of course, this dimension should play a central role. But traditionally, regional and regional policies have also had a clearly compensatory element. The Labour Party believes that both of these aspects need to be taken into account. We should stimulate development and compensate for disadvantages that exist in the districts. There are clear differences in living conditions in our country, but these do not go between town and country. It is not bad living conditions in rural communities that are the reason many move from there. There is a lack of interesting jobs that is the main reason for the move. It must be a task for the government to generate interest in the positive quality of life in our districts and the potential of our business. Subsidies to regional economic development have now been shown to be substantially reduced in recent years. The effect selection toggles this emphatically. This negative development has failed in the fact that the agency has a positive impact on industrial development in the districts. Changes in government policy in this area are not mentioned in the Regional Communication. To the extent that things are commented on, the Government is clearly defensive. She speaks out, among other things.«States do not build the country, but should be an active contributor to trigger growth potential.» The working party disagrees with this assessment. A welfare country must definitely have the task of being involved in the construction of the country. Action in the fields of education, research, health care and administration fully indicates that efforts are strictly necessary to achieve growth in different regions. The Labour Party believes it is a very important task for the public sector to be a development actor. In this way, increased efforts in the different regions can be inspired. It is an offensive policy. It must play on the potential that exists, and the challenges that a person encounters in the different regions of the country. If we are to succeed in shaping our policies, we must understand people's different desires and needs. They may vary a lot. I would particularly like to address the major challenge of recruiting enough women and young people in some areas. If a success is to be achieved in countering the biased distribution of the population in the areas mentioned above, it will be necessary to focus on strengthening the basis of developments in each region. This must be done by developing resources in the area, by facilitating innovation and industrial development and by playing on existing competences. I think that special advantages that each region has need to be given special attention. In some areas, the challenges are exceptional. In these areas, regional policy instruments need to be strengthened. From experience, we know that special challenges may arise in some municipalities or regions due to large job losses. In particular, problems that have occurred in one-sided industrial sites and in highly fisheries-dependent communities can be mentioned. The Labour Party believes that in such situations conversion measures need to be implemented as quickly as possible, preferably before de-employment takes place. In such cases, it may be appropriate to grant a municipality special status for conversion. The government must be willing to add extra funds to county councils to prevent problems in communities where the business structure is strongly changing. In this case, innovation in Norway must include measures for conversion, social development and the creation of new jobs. Active cooperation between different actors in the migration process should be ensured and independent initiatives should be taken by the State in consultation with local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e254	The Regional Communication is one of the issues in which the socialist parties once again appear as a socialist experiment. You agree on the surface, on increased use of money, but when you get into the reality of the matter, you basically disagree. It is agreed that more is needed in the districts. It is agreed that it should be invested in big cities. It is agreed that there is a focus on small communities, more on the road, more on nutrition funds and more on the local economy. If you take the sum of this, you essentially don't agree. Only the local economic growth alone means more money than our total taxes – if you base the Right Programme – per person. years in the next four-year period. I want an answer from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to the following question: What does the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen want with the third level of government, with today's county councils to become regions? Is it desirable that the higher education institutions be admitted? Would you like a hospital to be repatriated? Me and Right don't want it. We see that we are best served, both from the people's point of view and from the overall point of view of society, that two levels are chosen. I also think it is funny that Schjøtt-Pedersen has the strong belief in regions, perhaps especially in the representative's own home state, which would then lead to today's county house in Vadsø being moved to Tromsø – thanks to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. We in the Right, on the other hand, have great faith in the municipalities. Increased municipal autonomy means investing in municipalities. Let me then go on to SV's wish to legislate the local self-government. Well, the lot makes it the exact opposite. SV is opposed to several inclusions of earmarked grants — they are even for new ones. In terms of plan and land – and I am talking about the beach zone in particular – the party is terrified of local self-government. The lot wants to introduce a 6-hour day, which has a proceeds of at least 50 billion dollars. This would lead to an increase in interest rates if not taken from increased taxes or drastic cuts in other areas. This will particularly affect the local government sector. It will provide worse services, because it will vacuum the labour market for skilled workers, which again affects those who need the most services. As I see it, there is no need at all to legislate local self-government. SV just has to go away from some of its own policies. The centre party, on the other hand, wishes, as a principle, that business neutrality must give way to, inter alia: – and I quote from the nations today – “marine and maritime industries, energy, travel, food production, wood distribution and ICT”. My question to the Center Party is: What industries does the party not want to bet on? I see the Center Party as a party that wants to bet on all industries. It wants the Right and this government. If you're betting on all industries, it's not per year. definition to be business neutral? We see that we have optimism back across the country, regardless of whether they are district municipalities, city municipalities or other municipalities. There are new jobs created, there are more profitable businesses, there are fewer bankruptcies, there are more entrepreneurs, and there is lower unemployment. This comes from stable good framework conditions. The districts, like the rest of the country, demand one thing – stable good framework conditions. We're on the right track. We see that our tax policy is working. We see a historically low level of interest rates thanks, among other things, to: Economic policy of the Government. We see that we now have a more competitive crown price, while moderate paymaking makes it easier for companies to compete. The answer here is simple: we need a long way from a new course. Norway needs further progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e269	In a geographically long-term country such as Norway, characterised by a very widespread housing structure, it would be politically irresponsible not to have political ambitions to facilitate viable regions and sustainable communities in the different parts of the country. Norway is a country that is relatively rich in natural resources. These natural advantages provided by the resource base constitute an important prerequisite for jobs and housing in several locations in the country. If we are to create strong regions and a basis for business and housing across the country, it is an important premise that there is a basis for profitable business that provides jobs and value added. The overall perspective for successful regional development will in the future lie in a national, targeted focus on education, research and development and as attractive an incentive for innovation and entrepreneurship as possible. There is broad political consensus that the best possible arrangements should be made for housing and jobs in the widest possible community in our long-term country. But people must nevertheless be allowed to move freely where they want to, in order to realize their own education or other things. A high level of mobility in the population is important, and a necessary willingness among people to move where the jobs are located is important. I believe it is a ‘must’ Norway that nation is totally dependent on. Achieving regional and district policy objectives on housing and jobs across the country will usually depend entirely on the existence of a local nutrient base that provides profitability and value added. In addition, it is a major challenge to create new jobs across the country, which are attractive to an increasingly advanced population. We know that the trend of centralisation and relocation can be explained to a significant extent by a generally higher level of education in the population. People move more than ever before, from the more peripheral parts of the country to towns and cities, because it is where the attractive jobs are located, and because in Foreign Norway it is often difficult to find jobs that are adapted to a high level of education in the population. For many years, Norwegian politicians have spent a lot of energy and considerable financial resources pursuing a very ambitious district policy. Everything from agricultural policy to the incomes system for municipalities has been and has been permeated by rural policy support schemes to make people live where they are born. This is a hopelessly out-of-date policy today. People must be allowed to move freely. We can no longer subsidize unprofitable farming or anything else simply because it should be a supporter of district policy. Despite long-standing colossal regional policy efforts, it can be noted today that Norway has achieved only a lesser degree of regional policy objectives. People have moved from the districts and into the cities as never before. The achievement of this goal has been in line with the political ambitions and the great economic effort in Norwegian district policy. The pattern of relocation and the trend of centralisation in the last 50 years clearly indicates that Norwegian district policy has been partly unsuccessful. This recognition of a misguided commitment to Norwegian district policy has led to a progressive shift in the reindeer of reindeer policy thinking towards wider regional policy thinking. I think it is important to pursue a policy that has a philosophy of growth that seeks to strengthen the regional centres and the county capitals rather than to maintain the number of inhabitants on each nest or in each valley, on which traditional Norwegian district policy has previously been based. The future will show that growth will continue in cities and regional centres. It's a natural development. Instead of countering the natural migration process in the population and the change in the pattern of residence, which a modern society entails, we should regard regional centralisation as a good and high mobility of the population as a strength for Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e288	The Labour Party wants people to be able to live throughout the country and will facilitate equivalent living conditions. The Labour Party will strengthen democracy both locally and regionally. For the Uppland and Hedmark counties, we lack a more marked domestic strategy. North Norway has its own. The coast gets its own, but inland has little concrete to pick up, in addition to thin descriptions of the importance of agriculture. The interior, with the counties Hedmark and Uppland, is a large geographical area, 23 times larger than Westfold, even with Finnmark and ten times larger than Akershus. We live more widely in the two counties than in anything else, and fewer live in dense places than in any other state in the country. Through Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Sponheim, the government has launched its own domestic strategy, the Inland 2010. This work is led by County Sigbjørn Johnsen, with participation from the two counties and many other actors from the private and public sectors. In 2010 the trends described in the county plans of the two counties are addressed, and the strategies are also consistent with those of regional development programmes in the two counties, as well as with several individual projects. Six areas of particular importance have been identified in the Inland 2010: industry, biotechnology, bioenergy, travel, cultural and experience industries and information security. What is missing is concrete follow-up by the Government to grant fresh money in addition to what is already funded by local and regional actors. A key common inland strategy is to contribute to the qualification of inland higher education institutions to become a university. We are largely lacking a national strategy that supports this common promise, between universities, the municipal sector and private business. Competence is important for future job development, and a university that contributes to high-level scientific research and education is crucial to ensuring domestic competence. Through breeding organisations and higher education institutions in Hedmark, the country has one of the most important professional environments in agricultural biotechnology. Local and regional strategies focus on the further development of this competence, where partnerships between businesses, organisations, municipalities and county councils and colleges will develop forward-looking jobs. It is a goal to establish a Center of Expertise in Biotechnology in Hamar. Out of entirely concrete projects, we will highlight the work of securing a mid-term rally to the interior in 2007. The event will have a main base in Hamar, but there will be loops in both Uppland and Hedmark. The government has said no to support the work on the application financially, but we are not giving in. A World Cup rally has a huge media coverage. TV broadcasts are distributed to 195 countries, which will contribute to the marketing of this region and the country in a very good way. The field effort is very important. The regional notification points to an increase in employment for enterprises in the business world, and business environments have led to increased local involvement in industrial development in the districts. The business environment has contributed to the development of local business environments that can contribute to the long-term creation of more new jobs in the districts. I would like to stress that the business environment has helped to secure established businesses in areas with low nutrient content. The business environment has also contributed to the creation of an attractive working environment for highly educated women in the districts. The government follows up on the regional communication with new business areas. I'm very pleased with that. However, I would like to stress that it is important to keep up with money, so that new businesses do not go at the expense of those who are already in operation. We look at results in the first business areas that five years have been too short to be a breaker and build for the project business environments. It's taken time to figure out a form, but we see that the results are coming. In the long term, the environment is strengthened and the business environment is a success with a high potential for further development and growth. Every year, each establishment has received development funds to enable the Executive Director to be a local resource for economic development and innovation. This means that after five years each Executive Director has to compensate for the share of development in other gainful activities. It is important that business environments have predictability in the economy. Finally, I would like to stress how much it means that we have jobs, well-being and attractive communities that can offer a certain breadth and job opportunities across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e325	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e328	First, some of the things that have not been dealt with, namely the future of the county. Unfortunately, it has not been dealt with. This regional message should have been buried for the county. When it is not buried over the county municipality, it is clear that consideration of bureaucracy and the preservation of the administration is the overriding consideration of the power of the inhabitants and the influence of the inhabitants. Two levels of government will provide strengthened local democracy and strengthened community power. It is a pity that the Progress Party is standing alone to make that clarification and clearing up here today. There might be reason to remember that we don't have a population of 40 million in this country. We're a lot closer to 4 million. So to something that's been treated, based on the fact that we in the Progress Party of course share the desire to get good value creation across the country. What is important for value creation everywhere in all regions, both centrally in the regions and peripherally in the regions, are good roads. The setting refers to ‘reduce distance barriers’. Told you a little bit more popular and understandable: what we need is good roads. What is actually the biggest challenge is not building new roads, but actually maintaining the roads we have, on the basis that very much of the transport work done in the goods and services sector is on the secondary road network. These include: in the current responsibility of county councils where road maintenance delays exceed NOK 9 billion. It's so incredible that the administrative units we're going to have to struggle with a little bit more have no realistic ability to do something about this problem in a notable and clear way. It is such that those who value their lives, who drive a car on the periphery of the secondary road network, meet paths where the weak one rages, where there is no room for passing, where it is not possible for a modern-quality vehicle train to meet another train, where there are deep furrows in the road, where the asphalt disappears, there are holes, etc. It is the everyday life of the value creators using the secondary road network. Here it's going to have to be another lift. Here the government must show the will to promise along with those who create values in the regions, and here there is a need for solid means to give more value creation. Here, for once, you might have to be able to look across the sector boundaries and realize that spending more money on clearing up the roads is actually an investment for value creation and not just a cost in one annual government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e335	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark made himself an commentator and tried to sum up the SV's programme, both a large-scale programme, a revised budget, a municipal proposition and most of all, as I understood. I thought he solved it in a strangely bad way. I recommend that Peter Skovholt Gitmark in his next post informs the room about what is Right's regional policy, so we can focus on what is SV's. Otherwise, like Eirin Faldet, I would talk mostly about the business environment. That's exciting stuff. It's a lot of fun when you're around the county and visiting business areas, because then a lot of exciting people, people who have higher education, and who dare to go back to their district and bet on building a job, and even create more jobs. That's very good, and we need that. In a district group like Sogn and Fjordane, who are struggling with recruitment, both to get our own youth home and to get other young people to Sogn and Fjordane, with higher education in their luggage, we see that the business environment has been a very important contribution to it. Earlier in the spring was the councillor of my municipality, Florø, and opened a new marina. It's very exciting, and there's a lot going on. It is very good that one of the regional messages tells the business community the way you do, and that one wants to go on and on with it. It's unseemly in the setting, it's going on how to finance further. The five-year rule is that one should have. But SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party have some considerations about whether one should not look at whether one should extend that five-year period, with experience from the period we have behind, in a state like this. mine, Sogn and Fjordane, which now have weariness. We have a very export-right business, and when things go bad and you have recessions, you also wear the rest of your business. In the commercial settings that have been around for nearly five years, you can see that you have spent a lot of that time about keeping your activity going and being upright. But it takes longer than five years. Even if it starts going up now, and our yard gets orders, which then of course swings over to the rest of business, we see that five years is a very short time. In business environments, a constructive work is already under way. People are in the process, and it's innovation and knowledge. Innovation Norway calls this phase the “bloodbath”. It takes a few years before the idea that the entrepreneurs have, or the further development or innovation that the company has, has been profitable. It actually takes time. Perhaps it takes a little more time in sparsely populated districts than in others, and then we should dare to see if the extension of the five-year period is just helping to underpin what is and should be the business environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e344	A new regional and small community policy is needed. Developmental opportunities are disparate in our country, and we need to address that. This means a new industrial policy, a new employment policy, more focus on education and research and a new transport policy. We have enormous opportunities, but also great challenges. The biggest challenge we're facing is the environment. A few months ago, an international research report concluded that there are serious climate change in the Arctic. The polar bear predicts small chances of survival. Climate change is not just a hypothesis but a reality. One notices it most rapidly in the north. The report concludes that changes will be faster and stronger if the world does not manage to reduce its CO2 emissions. The climate challenge must be taken seriously. When some look beyond North Norway, it may seem that the only recipe for growth in North Norway is gas and oil production. That's far from right. There are few jobs and few ring-effects. The gigantic investment in petroleum activities to which a majority of the Storting belongs is short-term. It is associated with environmental uncertainty. It is a gambler with our future, a gambler with the vulnerable environment in the Barents Sea, which is the world's largest food container, which has biological diversity and is an enormous laboratory for research. To bet on the opening of the Barent Sea for petroleum activities now is to go with your back into the future. Several oil and gas companies have realised that oil and gas are not the future's field of activity, both because reserves are being emptied, and because climate change is increasing. If the world's governments don't act, we're heading for a disaster, warning Shell Director, and the top boss of BP is in complete agreement. Today it is a growing production of solar, solar, wind and bioenergy. The number of new transport solutions increases by 20-35 pst each year. This year. The investment amounts to $10 billion a year. It's just a taste of the growth that comes in the future. This is where the future's bets lie. This is the point we're going to have to grab hold of and bet on. Now, if we were to bet on it now, it would give us a real advantage. Everything now is working on it in North Norway. More jobs than the oil will contribute are now at Scan-cem and Scan Wafer in Northern Ireland – 300 jobs. These are enormous opportunities for the future. We have to bet on the advantages we have. We must bet on the fisheries as the fishing nation we are. We must bet on tourism, on what we have with the pure and amazing nature. It provides jobs all today and will provide more jobs than the oil and gas will ever provide. What you need now is concrete political action. These grips have been taken by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e366	Regional policy instruments need to be strengthened. We know from past experience that much can be achieved in the districts by creating favourable funding rules, by investing in modern industry and by opting for a entrepreneurial culture. This is how the Norwegian industry was developed. I understand that the Workers' Party will add up to a bet in Finnmark. So will the Coastal Party. But our commitment is not to give away almost eternal allowances of natural resources, such as fish in the sea, free to investors. We in the Coastal Party have not given up, so much indicates that the spokesmen of the Workers' Party and the Government have done, when they give up the huge resources in Finnmark in hopes of having activity. We know that the fish in the sea is an eternal and powerful resource that will become increasingly important. We know that a strong commitment to biotechnology in the fishing industry will give us extremely valuable new industries. We know that Finnmark will be a central growth area in Norway. We'll bet on North Norway, with all the resources available. The Coastal Party will yet be committed to developing a new and modern industry, such as the film industry, into a new and strong district industry. We have the people. We have the capital. It lies in the petroleum fund, which allows us to also invest in the second fastest growing industry in the world, as they do in District Sweden, with their own film cities, and in Denmark. But the Government and the Workers' Party have ended up in the EU fog. Therefore, they both want and want to bind the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community to their hands and feet by being responsive to ESA and to the EEA rules. Globalisation has become an additional threat to Norway because our petroleum fund is actively being used in this process, while we have politicians here at home who refuse Norwegian people to participate in the development of Norway, because they are pushing us into an EU that will no longer be part of the development of large EU countries. It is the most frightening vision of the future that both the Government and the Workers' Party add up to. The Coastal Party wants to continue to have three directly elected levels. We see the campaign against today's county councils as an attempt to reduce popular participation in the decision-making process and with it weakening democracy. Otherwise, we're against Norway being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e383	I would like to contribute to the fact that the Council of States does not continue to be indignant about all the points it has been upsetting today. I have to say a little more about the 2007 progress. It is right that the decision taken by the Stortinget on a case of the regionally elected level is 2007. However, it is the case that the District Commission is calling for implementation. Several county councils are calling for progress. A majority of the municipal committee today propose a principle clearance in 2006 on the condition that the transfer of responsibility, power and authority from the state level to the regional level has been phased out. That means that the state council could have got multiples for faster progress, if she wanted it. Instead, it looks like, from an outside point of view, little happens when it comes to clearing the transfer from the state level to elected government. But it is possible that the Council of State can confirm that more is happening internally in the department. So to Gitmark's question about the Center Party's priority. One of the main differences between the Center Party and the Right is that the Center Party wants the State to be an active participant in order to enhance areas where Norway has an advantage. I'll do two examples. One is from the list that Gitmark just read – he doesn't need to use the Nations, because it says in the setting – and it applies to food production. If the Right Party and the Central Party had had a matching view, there would be a clearer Norwegian vote in the WTO to secure import protection. At that time, the budget item had taken its figures more seriously, so that the incomes of agriculture had gone up and not down. Another example is ICT. At that time, the organization of broadband had gone faster, with a progress that ensures where the market does not reach, at an affordable price for everyone. So it would have been another state involvement. Nor did we have a cure for infrastructure issues, as this government does when it comes to the national transport plan. So I want to challenge right at one point. One of the many tools that has worked is food gardens. Why can't Right-wing confirm that the business environment has come to be, that the state is still contributing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e399	The Regional Communication states that economic activities are a good measure we intend to continue with. Business gardens are to be further developed, and we have just invested money in the revised national budget to more people. The question is whether we should follow the approach established at the start of the business gardening programme, namely whether there should be five years of state support at the beginning. That's what we're going to do. Then we're going to contribute to financing networking activities between businesses. But the assumption was that they were going to be viable after five years, that they were going to be able to find funding after five years. And although I agree that there are many good aspects to the business environment, the evaluation failed to identify that there were really created new jobs on the basis of the establishment of the business environment. Then it might be important to say that we're going to continue with something we think is a good move, give them a little more time, we're going to expand to several places, but we might not have to put all our eggs there, we might have to see that there are some other measures that are also important. Then I just want to say that I have been amazed at all the great words from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. Now it's not unusual that the words are greater than the action, but here it becomes a very big difference, especially when he accuses the Government of the fact that the reductions we have made in the regional policy instruments are a disaster. Yes, we recognize that we've reduced here, because it's part of creating a stable and good economic development. So we have contributed to the fact that there is now more optimism across the country. But out of curiosity, because I didn't quite remember it, I have now provided the Workers' Party's alternative budget and looked at what is actually inside of regional development, which was supposed to be the basis of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's great words that the district policy we're pursuing is wrong. 43 million. where regional development is concerned. That means that the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen now believes that it is possible to cut over 300 million. kr more than he intended to be used in this field when he was Minister of Finance. That's what's really in their alternative budget. And I assume that if he thinks that it is now possible to cut regional development funds so drastically from 2001 to 2005, it is because the regional policy that has been in place for the last four years is significantly more successful than the one that was in the past, so that there is now a better situation in District Norway – as less regional development funds are needed in relation to the Workers' Party's own previous proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e408	It has emerged in the debate that some of those who have made contributions are upset. Then there have been representatives who have claimed that someone is too upset, and some have claimed that others are too upset. I am not upset at all, for the debate we have had here today, we have had many times before, and exactly the same is said – about that and about that. And in particular, I must say that I do not agree with the Council of State that Schjøtt-Pedersen uses great words. It's empty words, because they're repeated by the Workers' Party infinitely. First of all, I would like to challenge Schjøtt-Pedersen, because he has become an expert in commenting on what the District Commission has done for his opinions. I've been a member of the District Commission. I was also involved when a unanimous district commission told us to strengthen the regional policy instruments. But I would like to ask the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen to point out what regional policy instruments I want to use, in relation to what means he wants to use. I'd like to interpret that myself. And it is not that one goes into a district commission with the mandate to submit individual party programme declarations and wishes. It is also clearly included in the position of the District Commission. Schjøtt-Pedersen also pointed to local advantage and regional advantage. Yes, if the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV think something about looking at the regional advantages, I think they should take some laps with themselves in relation to what has happened in the last 10-15 years, where these parties have capped the opportunities for regional and local development, through protection plans, national parks, etc., etc. We can take a small municipality in Nord-Trøndelag, Snåsa, as an example. If you put all the protective plans on top of each other, this poor municipality will be protected almost 700 times. They don't have the opportunity to look at any local advantage. The same applies to the entire North Tribe layer. 80 pst. by Nord-Trøndelag is somehow protected or freed from the use of the local advantages. Schjøtt-Pedersen has been together with the other parties about it. It is not possible to apply the local and regional advantages of the policy pursued from the left in Norwegian policy, especially if they are to enter into a red-green option, where SV is to strengthen the environmental profile and protect and peace even more. Then at least the barrels, and I'm counting on the rest of the country as well, become even more passive. The same can be said of gas. The working party has spoken with two tongues for almost ten years now: they want gas, but they don't make sure it gets gas. I will end with what I started with: this debate does not take place until a real alternative is given, where the Progress Party has a real influence on regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e430	I find it reassuring to hear that both the Council of State and the representative of Sandberg have heard my arguments before. I can assure them that they will hear them many more times as well, because we believe what we think about district policy, and have a fixed course. We believe that a much more offensive district policy should be pursued, and we will stand by that. I have not criticised the Sandberg representative or the Progress Party for not having designed the regional policy instruments in the way I would like. Of course, in each of the parties, you can have different opinions about it. What I've pointed out is that the government has invited a wide-ranging, complex district commission to come up with advice. The district commission, including Sandberg, has come up with advice. The answer to the Council of State and the Government is not to choose a device of district policy, it is that the level of district policy is sufficient. There is something quite different than having different opinions about how the device should be. I note that the Council of State points to the Workers' Party's alternative budgets. Yes, the Labour Party has a more offensive business and employment policy in its budgets, and we make an annual assessment of the priority measures to be taken. Now, to a large extent, the Council of State has used most of its commitment here today to refer to an allocation of 22 million. kr – I think it was – in the revised national budget, as the big massive effort in districts. I assume that the double cannot be completely uneven. But that's not my point anyway. My point is that this debate shows a very clear choice of where to go in the field of district policy. The government is weakening the regional policy instruments as they have been implemented, while the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want a strengthening. The councils were injured to say that I had stated that district policy and the cuts were a disaster. No, I haven't actually used such strong words. On the other hand, the central member of the Right Party has Jens Petter Ekorenes. He was the one who used the words that it was a disaster. Nor have I used the wording that what this government has done in district policy is frightening. In fact, I have not used such strong words either. In fact, the right rapporteur in Ballangen has done so. I can continue to say that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, when these cuts were completed, said that the State budget has a ‘bad district profile, and this has to be done. Prime Minister Bondevik may not be responsible for this.» I'll register it. I fully agree with what he said, but I have not used as strong words as my later member of the central government. I record that the representative Sandberg says that this debate is not going anywhere. Well, it does. It does not lead to any conclusion for which there is going to be a majority, unfortunately, because there is a majority in the United Kingdom that does not want to pursue a more offensive district policy. But it clarifies the options, and it clarifies that if you want a more offensive district policy, if you want a more offensive policy to create jobs and welfare in the districts, you need a different majority, and that majority is prepared to pursue a different district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e445	First to the Progress Party and the Right, which signal strongly that they want a two-tier model in Norway, with large municipalities and the state. Yeah, the one who doesn't realize that it's going to be a regional level, no matter what you decide for this, is naïve. The point is that there will be a state bureaucracy and an office to govern at regional level. Then I register that these parties think it's okay. I assume that there is no party here that sees that you can make such large municipalities in this country that you can get rid of that problem. It is that the country is varied and that there is a need to be able to pursue different policies. A greater right of access to instruments in business policy, cultural policy, transport policy, business policy and, perhaps, part of education policy would enable regional considerations to be taken into account. Of course, they should be taken politically, by those who are influenced by the voters, and not by a government office that is not influenced by them. In SV we think it is good to have large and small municipalities, cities, district municipalities, large and small, poor and rich, within some units where you have to take account of each other. What's right today is that there's a great dynamic development in cities, and that's good. It's attractive to live there and nice to be there. But if they're allowed to disconnect from the districts and don't have to take into account the districts, but on the contrary just take into account their own interests, that dynamic will be reinforced, and we'll have even greater problems in being able to use the resources across the country, which everyone is talking about, and give equal living conditions to everyone – because the dynamics will be like that. So to the debate on a major shift of new state jobs. I could imagine seeing the Solberg Council's list, if she thinks she has such a list. SV says we want jobs out of Oslo, new jobs should be moved out of Oslo. But the main point is that if you pursue a sectoral policy that centralises, there is a massive centralisation of jobs all the time, and then you do some symbolisations, as if it were a powerful district or regional policy. That's not right. When the Labour Executive Board was to be moved to Trondheim, an underlying regionalization of it was started, where one was to gather Buskerud, Oppland, Hedmark, Akershus and Oslo in regional offices in Oslo. The result of the preliminary discussions was that the Oslo office was going to be bigger than it was before, and a lot of jobs were centralised in the regions. That's how it happens all the time. I have to say that SV is not particularly impressed with such regional or district policy relocation of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e456	I am well aware that there were many who did not agree when we made those budget changes in the autumn of 2001, and that there were some reactions among some business leaders in the districts. Some of them were members of the central government in the Right. But the interesting thing is that that's not what they're saying now, because now they've seen how our district policy works for their businesses. Now they've seen what we've done, they've contributed. I have found that it also has Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Workers' Party, because now they have a budget for the current year that contains an equal cut in regional development funds as it cut off as this government did in the autumn of 2001, compared to their own scheme that autumn. The problem is that it's hard to deal with a political debate where someone uses words like they had billions, but when you look at what they have, it's 43 million. NOK more on an allocation of approximately NOK 1 billion initially. Then it is hollow to talk about that we do not take advantage of the action space, but that this would have been done by the Workers' Party. For the 43 million. I had not been able to take advantage of any special room for action at all. In fact, I think that there should have been another and more realistic political debate that would have benefited the districts in a better way. And then I think you should have admitted that the sum of everything you talk about from the Labour Party does not hold a responsible economic policy. If you systematically go into the alternative budget that the Labour Party has presented, where you say that you are responsible and therefore have kept about the same use of money that the Government has done, you find that you cannot give priority to everything you talk about in all these debates. At this morning's meeting, the Workers' Party only passed on case No. 3 to use up about an annual impact of increased tax relief in relation to the Right Programme, with which it is usually intimidated. It was before we started talking about district policy or labour market policy and everything else. The 3.4 billion, which are the difference between the current tax level and that in 2005, and which has been promised not to raise, are eaten because the cash support is now to be protected until 2008. In the revised national budget, it has been understood that it was not so clever to cut at Steinerskolan, as among others. the head of the working party has attended, in the Catholic schools, etc. That's why they haven't repeated the 500-million cut. kr as they had in the budget. The cuts are gone, but even with the cuts, they didn't fit in with what they're talking about in these debates. I actually think that's double communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e465	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and now gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e468	Thank you, President. Then I must be quick. Cards to Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Workers' Party: No, the Workers' Party has no arguments. The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen shows it, because all he does from the pulpit is to quote the arguments of others. I still demand what the Workers' Party wants with its regions, because there have been no concrete arguments from the Workers' Party. I also record that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has stated that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have now joined forces and want the same regional policy. That's interesting. We'll follow that carefully. So for the district policy facility: the best way to get the districts to live is to open up to them to take advantage of the advantages they have. It involves massive investment in infrastructure, particularly on the road, and the third is tax relief. These three elements together are what are needed to lift the districts. All of these elements are the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's Party, and then we will not have any new arrangements for Norwegian district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e479	The representative, Sandberg, has obviously forgotten that the Workers' Party proposed a substantial strengthening of the means of transport, and that the Progress Party – as far as I remember – voted subsidiaryly for it. What made me take the floor, however, was that the Council of State gives the impression that the Workers' Party, because they want to increase the free income of the municipal sector, has in a way used up what can be called the space of action in economic policy. That's not right. The working party has DKK 3.5 billion more for the municipal sector than the government in this year's budget. And the Labour Party has found room for many other priorities within that budget. And then it is absolutely right that the Labour Party within that budget prioritises both strengthening the municipal sector and strengthening measures to create work. Then there is an assessment within each budget of how much to strengthen the various measures that also have an impact in the districts. It is quite clear that strengthening the local economy has a clear impact in the districts, just as some of the nutritional measures that lie there do. The Council of State knows very well that it is a rather different matter to sit in government and make budgets, than it is for the opposition to do so, in the sense that it is much more difficult to move things when you sit in opposition than when you sit and design the budget. I can assure the Council of State that the follow-up to the Workers' Party's wish for a more offensive district policy will, of course, take place to the extent that there is room to do so from the government position. But the Council of State must stop giving the impression that no one else has economic space to pursue politics. Of course you do! First of all, it has already been shown in today's budget that you can use the space that is, to make completely different priorities. However, priority is given to a better school, and a better care for the elderly is given more priority to work and employment, both in central and district Norway. But then we don't promise the same tax reliefs that this government has made, nor do we promise the same tax reliefs that the Right promises for the next period. Then there is plenty of room to implement some other policy measures. That's what illustrates the options that stand up against each other in the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3047]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e504	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3048]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e520	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e529	There is currently a strong increase in applications to set up private secondary schools. Without a doubt, this may make it harder for the county councils to make a qualitatively good offer in the public schools. This is the background for three central party representatives to make proposals to strengthen funding for further training. Actually, there are two different dimensions. The one is of a financial nature and is about providing better funding, so that the municipal eight and the driven part of continuing training does not suffer harm. The other side of the case is of an educational policy nature and relates to the legal basis for the recognition of applications for starting private secondary schools. The Committee has been divided during the examination of the cases. It is, as usual, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting. The majority notes that the funding that exists is unacceptable. It easily leads to greater extractions than a county saves if private schools take over part of the students from the public school. In addition, it is noted that the county councils are responsible for fulfilling the right to further training and, for this reason, they need sufficient capacity to meet their different choices. In the 2006 municipal proposal, the drawing rate for the adjustment of the income frame is reduced to 80 pst. of the average cost per person. student. It's an improvement on current practice. In addition, the government shall assess whether more traction rates should be put in place. In addition, the proposal points out that a working group should consider possible changes to the correction arrangements. The majority want the government to have a high pace of handling this matter, because it is basically important, and because it has a lot to say for the county economy. On this basis, it is proposed that a new model for private schools should be presented in the 2006 government budget. The government party is disunity in this, and for that reason it is not behind the proposal made by the Committee on Civil Liberties. The Progress Party has a completely different approach in the matter and proposes that a single-cost funding be introduced in primary and continuing training. The second main question, which is taken into account, concerns the approval of applications for private secondary schools. The assessment of this issue includes clear policy lines. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party refer to the fact that according to the laws private schools are not recognised if it results in ‘significant negative consequences for the host state’. The majority in the committee believe that this wording is too weak. A decisive emphasis should be placed on the views of the county councils. If the consequences of private schooling are negative for the school structure or the provision of training in the county concerned, no authorisation should be granted. Under the current law, the county council is responsible for the continuing training in its geographical area. It will be impossible for the county to manage the responsibility for the training if one does not have a real impact on the approval of new and competing services. On this basis, the majority propose that the Government submit legislative amendments. The approval of private secondary schools shall depend on the consent of the county concerned to the establishment. The requirement should be tightened up in relation to the current law, meaning the plurality of the committee. The Government Party and the Advance Party reject this proposal. I would like to see the vote of the Municipal Committee approved at Stortinget this evening, but I realize that the result can be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e555	The new law on free-standing schools for which the Government has been passed no longer requires the representation of an alternative pedagogical or religious arrangement in order to be allowed to start up and run a school. Where students had to be offered an alternative religious or pedagogical school in the past, it is today holding to offer students a good school. This has led to increased diversity in the school sector; it has led to a positive struggle for students, and it has given each student a much greater degree of freedom of choice. However, it is quite right, as the proposers say, that several counties are now experiencing a sharp increase in the number of applications for setting up new independent schools. It is also true that very many of these schools will compete with the existing public offer. It is precisely the increased competition and diversity between schools that are the very point of the new law on high school education. Where in the past students had only one school to choose, they now might have two. Where schools didn't have to make an effort to attract students, they have to tighten up to win the students' favor today. Where, in practice, there was only one line and one discipline to choose from, there is a wide range of disciplines and lines to choose from in many places today. Here lies «today» ahead in time. It is absolute hope that today will be as soon as possible. In their proposal, the proposers express a strong concern about the impact that the increased degree of freedom of choice and diversity of pupils could have on the already existing public secondary schools. This must be the wrong focus to have. The problem must not be whether the public schools lose students for the benefit of the new colleges, but rather whether the students can be sure that the school they want to attend is also a good school that maintains good quality and is for their benefit. Whether the school is a high school or a public school, it has to be completely indifferent. If public secondary schools lose pupils for the benefit of primary schools, it must not be the fault of primary schools, but rather the public schools must realize that they have an offer that students do not see as attractive enough. With regard to point 1 of the proposers to change the current model for the calculation of the framework grant for the increase of pupils in fresh schools, the Government of the 2006 Municipal Proposition has proposed that the drawing rate for the adjustment of the income framework be reduced to 80 pst. of the average cost per person. pupils, in order to better match the savings of the local government sector for pupils in independent schools. There are relatively large differences in the cost of the 15 different directions of study. Furthermore, if the student growth rate in secondary schools comes mainly in the cheapest directions of study, the Government proposes the introduction of two or more drawing rates, so that there is symmetry between the state withdrawing from the municipalities/municipalities and the savings made by municipalities/communities by the pupils in state or private schools. The correction scheme is part of the cost equalisation of the income system. The correction scheme redeploys funds from municipalities and counties with a high proportion of pupils in independent schools and state schools, to municipalities and counties with a lower proportion of pupils in independent and state schools. According to the Training Act, the county council is responsible for planning and expanding higher education with regard to national objectives. At the same time, the Law on Free Schooling establishes the right to the recognition and establishment of independent secondary schools, provided that the conditions laid down by the Act are fulfilled. The government considers it very important that there is a balance between the overall responsibility of the county council under the Training Act and the ability to establish independent secondary schools. It is ensured today that the right to recognition under the law on upper secondary education does not apply if the establishment of an independent secondary school would lead to ‘significant negative consequences for the host state’. The specific influence of the county on decisions and applications for approval is the result of the requirement under the Law that the county should always be given an opportunity to comment on such applications. What is necessary for the materiality requirement to be considered to be met would be due to a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e574	This is a rematch on the law of high school. The progress party sees no reason to have that rematch, so I should be reasonably short. Of course, it's completely unrelated to the reality that we're now facing a mass flow and a mass transfer of high school students. It won't be like that. But there's a lot of interest in the many colleges that have applied to start high school, and we hope that the directorate will soon fall asleep to give all the students who are waiting for clarification, a clarification before the summer comes in. What is crucial and crucial to which the Progress Party attaches decisive importance is to gain competition and diversity in the provision of education. With diversity, quality of teaching follows. We therefore place the decisive emphasis on what serves the students and parents, while it seems that the proposers place the crucial emphasis on protecting a particular group of school owners, i.e. those who have an approximate monopoly today and who are challenged by the new law on free school. We reject the majority vote from the committee, and we will reject the initiative of the proposers. If the point is to focus on what serves the students, follow the proposals of the Progress Party, which I am referring to here, a proposal that will allow the money to follow the students. Then all the students become equal, and we protect the right to freedom of choice, which, in the view of the Progress Party, is an important and crucial right to protect for students and parents. Then all students will be equal, and it will be up to the various school drivers, when they present and operate their offerings, to recruit interested students for their school offerings. It is to facilitate diversity and quality, and it is to treat all students in a non-discriminatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e585	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e588	I did that – in an intrusive confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e593	It was elegant – as regards both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e596	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e601	The representative Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposals to which it was referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e604	In this case, there's an ideological dividing line between the left-hand side and the right-hand side. But I react when representatives of the Right try to present it as if before you got a new law, there was only one line in high school, and there had to be, like, everyone left. There is a shame to report a complete error. There are many lines to choose from. There must be many lines to choose from. And it's the county councils that are actually responsible. I notice that the Progress Party refers to the county council as a monopolist. The county councils have therefore been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring full secondary education for all students, both with vocational training and with general study competence. The county authorities are trying to facilitate this throughout the country, and with as wide a range of offers as possible, following an application from the students. Now we've seen a lot of applicants from the private high schools, and it's worrying if they're approved, because the point is that county councils' responsibility for offering these students does not disappear if a private high school is approved. So at the moment that school finds out that this is not going to happen anymore, yes, the county councils are sitting there with that responsibility. It has also been the case that county councils have capital expenditure related to the infrastructure they have. The county councils have expenditure related to teacher’s salaries. Still, it's over 30 pst. by secondary school teachers who have a personal scheme for contracts of employment which cannot be terminated. These are teachers who the county councils can't get out of jail if the department was going to say yes to many private high schools and it's not these teachers who get a job in those schools. This means that you are left with very large expenses, and at the same time you are equally obliged to give a wide range of offers to those students who had to apply for a public school at any time. And in order to take full responsibility, you actually have to be responsible for the school structure. That's the most important thing you have. Because you do not have unlimited resources for this, you have to keep the money in place so that you can meet as many students as possible in their wishes and offer a quality that is good. It is positive that the Government has recognised that the extraction from the counties as it is today is too high, cf. some of the arguments I used instead. It is worrying that the government does not see those who are assigned such an extensive task as to give full secondary education to all students, not then also to have full authority over the school structure, so that they are able to carry out that task in a good way. I'm also going to make a little visit to the system that you're building for schools, because you've had a lot of long pointers to municipalities and county councils because they're not effective enough, and you're referring to them, for example. to rationalise the school structure as an alternative way to operate more efficiently and rationally. At the same time, therefore, a financing system for private schools is being established. As it is today, you get the private school approved only all the curricula are in order, all the parts of the application are in order. Thus, government funding will maintain a school structure that the Government believes is inefficient and too expensive if it is the county or municipalities that run it, but as long as there are state schools, it is quite easy to maintain an inefficient and over-cost structure. I had wanted a government that had had the ambition to offer the very best schools through the public. When Johan Bauer comes with his offer of free PC to all students, school trips, contact teachers, then the public should have answered yes, this is our ambition with the public school as well, we are actually going to offer this to the students, because this is good. But that's what this government says they can't afford to offer students in public school. And that's when I conclude that the government wants the public to appear as something different and not to be able to compete with this kind of private offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e618	It's true that the representative Karin Andersen says there's an ideological distinction in high school sacs. But I wonder if they're afraid that there'll be too many colleges, for only 1.9 pst. Of primary school students today, only 4 pst. by students in secondary schools go to colleges. It's extremely small. It's not much like the situation in most countries around us. It's less than in Sweden. It shows that it must have been very difficult to create such schools over the years with the Labour Party in the government offices. And the Labour Party, in government, has trained post school applications so that even the Montessori schools had problems getting approved. I don't say it was in Reidar Sandal's time as a minister, but at least that's not the case now. In my opinion, we need more colleges, because The school is a positive supplement to a naturally good public school school show that it is possible to obtain excellent results, in fact, unless the public school has the parental right to do so, just as the plaintiffs provided such civil colleges of higher education can help us make a real offer to the large youth schools that now need such recreational schools, not least is an alternative that many people want and need. I myself have our support for a mother looking for high school to the son, who was struggling with concentration problems and bullying. One of the colleges in the Bergens area was a safe and customized supply, better than the public at large could offer. I'm glad that this good one gets a good deal, and that's what's funny, that's an offer for him. Of course, as politicians, we should treat all children in Norway the same way, at least almost the same way, and it is unthinkable, in my view, that children who attend colleges receive less community support than other children. Something has been done in the last period, but the target has not been reached. Many places are the supplement to colleges down in 60 pst. of what a student in a public school gets, because the cost of capital is not fully covered. It's unimaginable. Secondary school children shall also have classrooms and dorms. I hope that the government will implement in the next period what the Sem-Declaration had as its objective in this area. The government has proposed to extract only 80 pst. of the total cost when a student left public school for the benefit of a high school. Actually, that's sensible. It won't always be cheaper to run a school or a class if a student goes away. The proposal for Decision I is therefore like opening doors. The proposal to give the county council about veto right to new and maybe old colleges is typically A4 thinking. Freedom, the right to change, and parental rights are undermined. I wonder if the Center Party can stand for this. Contrary to the socialist parties, the Christian People's Party has the power to have two thoughts in its head at the same time. We're working for a safe, good and strong public school, we're facilitating that colleges get growth and space, and we're investing on the teachers and on a solid knowledge promise. I recommend voting against the vote and for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e663	According to the Training Act, municipalities are responsible for planning and expanding higher education. The Government's change to the private school law of a law on high school has led to a large number of new applications for the establishment of independent secondary schools. Many of the applications have been accepted, against the recommendations of the counties — except for Oslo. It's a little strange to listen to the representative Apelthun Seele, who's talking about ideology in this context, while her own county rapporteur in Hordaland is strongly opposed to these independent schools. It is not about ideology in the sense that the representative is talking about in this context. It's about justice in terms of financing it – above all, it's about it. The national authorities’ consultation opinions are clear that the establishment of new independent schools will have a negative impact on the public offer. That's actually the rationale of the county councils. The term ‘significant negative consequences for the host state’ is a reason for not approving. The extraction system, as we have clearly described in the document, has negative consequences, but obviously not significant negative consequences, according to the government parties. The Ministry clearly does not believe that the large number of applications that have been granted will have significant negative consequences, as many of them have been granted. The preparatory work on the amendments to the Law on Free Schooling states that if the establishment of a state-of-the-art school would lead to permanent and substantially more costly schooling for the host state, it would provide the basis for not accepting the application, as well as if the establishment would lead to the county council being unable to offer some training services. In practice, it will be very difficult for a county council to be able to document all the effects of a new establishment, which is otherwise well described in the document we are dealing with. In addition to the fact that the setting-up of independent schools will lead to increased overcapacity in the school buildings of county municipalities, increased skyscraping costs and cuts in the framework grant, the counties show that they will have to reduce the county offer corresponding to the new places being established, or that the schools will have to reduce the width of the offer they have today. In many countries it will in practice affect today’s good, decentralised supply structure. Interestingly, both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party do not share the description of reality that the same parties have locally. It is obvious that the Ministry has a very high threshold for refusing an application. As far as I know, there is no refusal of a single application for the establishment of a post-secondary school, although the county authorities' statements on the negative consequences are clear enough. After all, it must be a cross of thought for the government parties in view of local democracy that the opinions and warnings of local authorities on future negative consequences are totally ignored, while the same parties are talking about strengthened local democracy. As the county authorities point out, there is a real risk that growth in the number of independent schools will lead to a reduction in the public training provision. It will affect the majority of students, who will receive both a qualitative and quantitatively poor supply. This is not in keeping with the government party's words about increased freedom of choice. The representative, Mr Sortevik of the Progressive Party, spoke about freedom of choice. If the county has to set up schools at district schools, it really reduces the freedom of choice of all, most of them students, who may then have to go to a secondary school elsewhere. So when we talk about freedom of choice, it's important to take into account that most students are allowed to choose school. But when the county has to reduce the offer, and perhaps remove lines or directions of study, you actually reduce the freedom of choice for a very large number of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e684	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e687	Here we got the rematch demonstrated by one of the proposers. Let me remind you that this horror that the proposers describe and repeat here from the pulpit has lived well with our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, for over ten years. There it is, as far as I know, social democratic rule. I have not realized that there has been any attempt to change the change in school legislation that came in Sweden ten years ago. There's the free establishment. There is a funding that follows the student, and it is actually also allowed for school drivers in social-democratic Sweden to make money in their school activities. I also want to remind you that students who go to independent schools get 85 pst. of operating expenditure in public schools. So there's a gross discrimination against students that we really don't want to be involved in. Let me also repeat that this is not about a mass migration. It is again based on experiences from Sweden, where the vast majority, the predominantly part of the students, actually still attend public school. Now the percentage of fresh oils in Sweden is slightly higher after ten years than what we see in Norway, and we will have a similar trend, but it will be within 5-7 pst. So it's no big mass displacement, nor any major accident. Having said that, I would like to stress that the Progress Party is, of course, also committed to improving the quality of public schools. Together with the Government, we have been involved in raising skills among teachers, we have been involved in raising money for the development and upgrading of school buildings, and we have been part of – after all, most of the parties – the content change in public school through St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, which we dealt with almost exactly a year ago, on 17 June last year. So we in the Progress Party are also betting in public schools, and are concerned that we should have quality in public schools. With our funding model, there will also be competition between public schools. We believe that this will contribute to the development of diversity and quality development. If we choose the funding solution of the Advance Party, where the money follows the student, where the student becomes a customer – yes, in fact, we use that expression – then the school drivers, even when they are public, have to work hard to get students, and the student should be able to choose freely across the country. We have also suggested this in several contexts, and we are going to propose again that we have a national free school choice across the country, for all students. It could be when they have the money with them. There will also be good quality offers to choose from all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e702	The representative of Sortevik is clearly entitled to this Document No. The 8 proposal is a rematch on a case that is decided during this majority period. But there are a few entries in this rematch that are suitable to marvel at. On the one hand, the Workers' Party, following the adoption of the Law on Secondary Education, has taken the line of being a member of the former Private School Act, unlike the new Law on Secondary Education. This is a whole new position on the part of the Workers' Party, for in the past there were rabiat opponents of the private school law. But it's an honest thing to turn around. In the private school law, however, it was made a change in the previous ageing period that it was clarified that county municipalities or primary municipalities should have no decisive influence but the right to speak. That amendment was correctly adopted against the votes of the Labour Party, but with the votes of the Central Party. And then I have to say that it really surprises me that you are now in favour of a decision that will confer on the county councils absolute veto right, ‘decisive influence’. It must mean that the Center Party today has the sharp opposite position of the party that it had in the previous magnification period. Then one has to wonder whether it is part of the ideological shift of the Centre Party, and that it is because one has moved from one side to the other in Norwegian politics, that is, one that is subject to as much public regulation as possible and to as much public governance as possible of people's choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e713	The representative's salary must be extremely poor in what is happening in Stortinget, if he has not registered that the Senterpartiet actually wants the old private school law back again. We defend the old private school law with parental rights. This is what we have done here in Stortingen this spring, in fact several times, also in the questioning with the Prime Minister. We believe that the parental right is very important. But now there's another law, which isn't about parental rights at all. In fact, the parental right is about being able to offer a school offer to parents who, for reasons of conviction, cannot send their children to public schools. That is why we want the Private School Act. But the law that this government has laid down is actually a completely different law, where you can create a school that is completely identical to the public school, has identical curricula, but is run by private people. In fact, such a school system does not want the Centre Party to support. But we stand clearly ideologically on the private school law and the parental right to be able to send the children to a private school because one of the reasons why they can't be sent to the public school. We really stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e722	I have no insurmountable problems to follow in the positions of the Storting Committees, nor the position on which this matter is based. On the other hand, I have the feeling that the representative Skjälaa has a very short memory. This may be due to the fact that he was not the representative of the Centre of the Trade Union Committee, the Kuf Committee, during the previous period, but of another representative. But when the Senterpartiet is a hot follower of the private school law, I assume that means that the private school law that the Centerpartiet agreed to clarify as late as the last day of the enlargement, just to deny the possible understanding that it is the local public authorities that have veto rights in setting up private schools. The difficult question remains for me: how can the representative, Mr Schjälaa, then claim to be at the same position today, while he is accompanied by a proposal that will just attach a veto to regional and local school authorities, absolutely veto right? It goes for me not to look in the jump.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e733	The representative Rune J. Skjæla has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e736	Then I just want to remind the representative that this is a different law. So the law of free school is different from the law of private school. It's actually the big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e741	The end of this debate took a surprising round, which makes me think I could take the floor to say two things. First of all, we in the Central Party are happy that the Government has partly met us already, because they are now proposing a lower extraction from the county than they have done before, and we are waiting for a further follow-up of it. We would have liked us to have a decision here today that this would happen in connection with the 2006 state budget, because it is urgent. Secondly, I would like to say to the representative Inge Wohnung: in the county councils responsible for a decentralised further offer that takes care of the students where they live, and which also takes care of the parental right to be taken into account, and which is that parents should have the opportunity to choose a public school for their children, there are now major debates on how to apply to all the applications that apply to the freshman. In Rogaland, for example. so that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, have given a clear indication of how they view the situation as he is, that they may risk having to take over freshular as they really don't want. Now they're talking about an alternative strategy. So they're going to have a counterstep. They'll bet on the public school to meet all these applications. I ask the representative to pay attention to the debates that are taking place around the county. It may be that there is a similar internal debate in the Right that we have had today across the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e755	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e758	The representative of the Kijlaa is, of course, entitled to the fact that the private school law is one law and the law of free school is another law, although they regulate the same matters, and although both were adopted by a majority here in Stortinget. But this cannot lead to political parties changing their principles, because there are two different legal texts. The principles are probably the same, at least hopefully. That there is discussion in the county councils, yes, of course it is. But that is not the issue. What has been proposed is that the county should have the last and decisive word, that is, that the county municipality should actually be able to refuse any applicant. Ideologically, with respect to reporting, it's the very opposite position of the Center Party as late as four years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e763	It's probably how each one of us has to take inwards the developments that are taking place, and evaluate their positions in relation to it. Our position when it comes to fresh air, was clarified in winter, and it stands firm. Then we've seen how the number of applications has pop up, and in order to take care of a good and decentralised school in the individual counties, it seems necessary to present the proposal that we've seen today. Then I have clearly understood it so that the Right – perhaps not the Right – but at least the Christian People's Party – must have changed its principle. I have understood that the Right has also changed its principle now in this period by changing the private spheres, which, in other words, blatant schools that entail alternative pedagogy or focus on life's vision, to the school law that has been adopted today, and where the principles underlying it are entirely different from those that led to private spheres.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e770	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3048]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e786	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e793	In Document No: 8:80 for 2004-2005, the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Heikki Holmås and Karin Andersen propose to amend the rules on the specialty quota in order to make it easier for qualified labour to migrate from outside the EEA territory. The proposers point out that the quota for specialists and skilled workers from outside the EEA territory is set at 5000 annual work migrants. However, this quota has never been filled, but has had a gradual decline in concessions. According to the proposers, Canada grants work permits to applicants based on a criteria system where age, association, education, practice and language skills are emphasised. Applicants with competence from sectors with a shortage of labour are given priority in the treatment queue. It is assumed that job seekers can prove that they are able to take financial care of themselves for a period of six months. The proposers wish to amend the rules on the granting of a work permit to professionals and specialists so that qualified immigrants can obtain a work permit and a residence permit to apply for work in Norway for a specified period of time. There is a broad majority of the committee which does not support the proposal but chooses to attach the document to the protocol. However, the centre party is associated with SV and believes that the specialist provisions must be made less rigid. The Progress Party is in agreement with the Workers' Party and the government parties, but has its own comment on the matter. I assume that the different parties themselves present their views. Now it is the case that the Department is currently working on the forthcoming Odelstingsproposition on new foreign law. In the proposal for a new foreign law, NOU 2004:20, the criteria set out by the proposers were both assessed and discussed without being recommended. Current legislation alone is unlikely to cause the fall in the number of applications under the specialist quota. The increase in labour supply from the new EEA countries is probably of such importance. Within the specialist quota area, citizens from the former EEA countries do not now need to apply for a work permit. It provides for EU legislation. The decrease in applications has also been for a total of 35 pst. Foreigners from non-EEA countries with specialist skills and job requirements in Norway may be granted a visa to stay for a period in Norway in order to apply for a job. This is due to the established jobseeker visa scheme. Therefore, in the opinion of the Right, a change of rules should not be necessary. The proposers refer to Canada. It may well be worth looking at Canadian schemes, but conditions in Norway and Canada are so different in a number of areas that the different schemes are not immediately comparable. The Canadian system is more a system for regulating labour migration in general. Like many other private legislative proposals promoted in this room, this is a matter that should be seen in a more holistic context. In this case, it will be in connection with the ongoing review of the Odelstingsproposition on the new Foreign Law. It is not least on this basis that the Right wishes the document to be annexed to the Protocol. Finally, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the SV in this case has presented a proposal in the Chamber today, proposal No. 2, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the au pair scheme in Norway to ensure that the rights of the au pair are respected.’ This is a proposal and a matter that has not been under consideration in the Committee. It's been promoted in the hall today, and I think in principle that that's not the way to go forward. That's not a good way to conduct politics, so the Right won't support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e824	The President will note that the proposal is not yet formally presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e827	SV would like to make it easier for qualified workers outside the EEA area to obtain work permits in this country and would propose to amend the special provision for migrant workers. The Labour Party will oppose the proposal. We are committed to having a regulated immigration policy. This also applies to labour immigration. When we last sat in government, there were changes to the specialty provision, so it was easier to apply and get work here in the country. The condition for using the specialist provision was that such labour was not present in Norway or in the EEA territory. The roof was set to 5000 spaces. But it has never been a goal on the part of the Labour Party to reach the full quota every year. If we don't reach 5,000 per. years because the requirements are still too tight or if it is because Norway may not be as attractive as we like to produce it, do not know. In the SV's proposal, there is therefore also a lot of visibility. Our intention to have such a regulation was and is that it should not replace labour that is already here in the country. I would remind the proposers that we have almost 100 000 unemployed, that we have too many women in part-time who want full time, and that the unemployment of immigrants in this country is very high. We're especially concerned with giving these groups a job to live off as well. It is also the case that we must be careful not to contribute to the defeat of poor countries for valuable labour. We may need more nurses, but so do the new EU countries that are now in the midst of a build-up of their well-being. The Labour Party looks forward to the treatment of new foreign law, which makes it possible to see immigration policy in the context, and not just in part and in part, as we are now doing. If SV takes up its proposal No. Second, the Workers' Party will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e842	After the previous posts from the representative Eye I might have had no reason to take the floor, because I think the representative Eye kept a very good post, which I fully support. But at least let me ask some questions. I am looking for the agenda and the objective of the Socialist Left in this matter. It is right, as the representative Eye says, that there are no restrictions in that way as long as we are unable to fill the quota that has already been adopted. I believe and believe, and perhaps also hope, that we should find the skilled labour force that SV here requires, primarily within the borders of our own country, but I almost refuse to believe that that labour force does not exist in the EEA area, which it has also been decided. That is why I have some doubts about the agenda of the Socialist Left – I am going to be a little careful to say that there is some agenda – but it seems to me that they are going to use labour immigration to hide immigration in relation to asylum and refugee policy. It seems that way to me, but I expect the representative Holmås to give me an answer to that in his post. I also find that the Socialist Left Party sort of collides with itself. On the one hand, they strongly express the fear of rising unemployment in Norway during the coming period. We have a lot of unemployment. We have many part-time workers who are qualified for a larger amount of work. As a result, they become in conflict with themselves when they have to have increased labour immigration to compete with the labour force already available, in whole or in part, in Norway. I would like to take a general and broader debate on labour immigration from outside the EEA area in relation to Norwegian legislation, if that is what the Socialist Left wants, but I do not think that if we were to come up with something concrete in such a general debate, the SV and the Progress Party would fall to the same position. If the Progress Party were to go towards resolving or finding other possible forms of labour immigration to Norway, we would have the business community, or those who then need the labour force, more fully collected it, but in the form of their own employment contracts, during periods when the business community or also the public sector would need labour, without the public being more responsible for the social arrangements that might be linked to such employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e855	Today, we have an extremely restrictive policy in relation to labour immigration to Norway from outside the EEA territory. I have to admit that when the new government, or what is now the old blue-yellow government, as we call it, entered the offices and presented the Sem declaration, I had faith that this would change. For under the title ‘Increased labour supply’, it is stated in a point that one will: ‘make it easier for persons from outside the EEA to obtain a work permit in Norway’. I guess the aim of this was to increase the number of people from outside the EEA who would come to Norway to work. But the fact is that during that period the government has been sitting, fewer people have come. I would think that was the opposite of the government's policy. In a globalised world, it is very difficult for people to come to Norway to study, and it is not least difficult to come here to work, unless you have any of these temporary arrangements called au pair or traineeships, or as seasonal workers. I think this is a problem, because we get an increasingly globalized world, where people connect across borders, and you get married, you don't get married, and you find girlfriends, etc. At least we have an exchange of people, and I think it should be easier for people outside the EEA to come to Norway. There are three reasons for this – three completely different reasons. One is that I believe there should be more legal roads to Norway than it is today. I believe that the legal possibility of labour immigration is too narrow. The second reason is the slightly basic liberal attitude that when we as the Northmen can travel anywhere in the world to work, I think in principle that other people should be allowed to do it too. I'm not for free immigration. I believe that, in order to take care of the welfare state, it is important to have a regulated form of immigration, and therefore I believe that a quota of 5,000 people is an all right starting point. I have to admit that I fell in love with Canada when I was there with the committee, simply because it is a country that looks at itself as a country that wants immigration, for various reasons. They want a multicultural society, and that's probably the main reason why we and the Progress Party will disagree on this particular point. In addition, they have proposed a balance between immigration of refugees and asylum-seekers with the right to family reunification and labour immigration, so that they have predictable ways of obtaining employment immigration into Canada. Then I will take up the glove that Per Sandberg threw at me. We have 250,000 people who are totally or partially unemployed. It's only been a couple of weeks since we dealt with the question of the pension message, where the whole Storting except for SV was in favour of a reform that was going to tighten the pensions just because one saw that there were going to be so few working people in Norway per. Retired that you weren't going to be okay. I think it makes sense to start cautiously by facilitating a system that actually opens up labour immigration to Norway, and we can gain experience from this. If we want and see the need for more work immigrants to Norway in the future, I think it is a good idea to set up a system right now. Norway is not so attractive to highly educated people with practice. There's a lot of reasons for that. We have a hair-driving strict visa policy, which makes it difficult to get a visit from friends and family. We have such a policy that we do not fully recognise education from Asia. We do not provide free Norwegian training for immigrants. We have, as I point out, square labour immigration rules. This is something we want to do something about. That is why we promoted this proposal. I hear that we are going to take it up in a broader debate. In this connection, I would like to receive some suggestions from Erna Solberg about how she sees that it is intended to follow up the Sem-Declaration on this point. Finally, I'm just going to say that the au pair system is a system I've long been skeptical of. I have tried to gain insight into it through contact with UDI and visit there. The main task has come in qualitatively and interviewed a number of people who are au pair. They've discovered that there's probably a lot of rudeness happening. Therefore, I could imagine an overall review of the scheme. I refer to the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber and to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e884	The representative Heikki Holmås has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e887	There has been a decline in the granting of specialist work permits in recent years. The proposers want a new legislation to allow competent workers to come to Norway to seek work for a fixed period, as EEA citizens can today. It refers to Canada, where a criterion system is used to grant work permits. For me, it is unclear what kind of changes proposers want in the legislation, but I would like to stress that it is important that the existing legislation is practised flexibly and flexibly. Today, it is such that citizens outside the EEA territory may be granted a special or trade-union permit in Norway, provided that domestic labour or labour from the EEA territory is not displaced. The Directorate of Labour states that there is good access to both domestic specialist and specialist labour from the EEA territory. Changes in regulation will hardly lead to a significant increase in skilled labour from the area outside the EEA to Norway. A jobseeker visa scheme is also in place, so that you can come to Norway to apply for a job permit. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has assessed the criteria adopted by the proposers. They have not been able to recommend this now. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that this issue needs to be considered more thoroughly and comprehensively and included in the budget proposed by the Ministry on the revision of the Foreign Affairs Act. We therefore recommend that the document be annexed to the Minutes. With regard to the proposal that Heikki Holmås made that was distributed in the hall, we find it difficult to decide on such a proposal right above the table. To decide on and adopt the proposal presented today seems to be a difficult Christian People's Party. We cannot have such a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e900	I'm just going to do a little bit of good for the Centre Party's vision, which is also going through the setting. So we want a relaxation in the specialist quota, so that it can be easier for qualified workers, even outside the EEA countries, to seek work in Norway. For us, it means that we want a more flexible practice with regard to today's rules. There are currently very wide differences in the possibilities of getting work done if one is inside or outside the EEA territory. In our view, there is no contradiction between doing much more so that many of those who are currently outside the labour market in Norway have access to a job, rather than intensifying their efforts to counter social exclusion. The number is obvious. So the ratio is 5,000. It was 1 667 in 2002, 1 126 in 2003, 747 in 2004 that got a yes to their application. Let me underline that we have no desire to expand the quota. Nor do we aim to fill the quota, but we have recorded some examples of employers who have called for simplification and liberalisation. We also have examples of some employees who have met a no where they believed they got a yes. We would like to stress that Norwegian pay and working conditions are to be in force. Then there is a proposal for a review of the au pair arrangement. The centre part was on a Document No in its time. 8 proposals that would make it easier to benefit from this scheme. We thought that with the copies that are now available, an evaluation is necessary. Of course, this can happen without a special decision being taken here in the Storting. It may well be that the Council of State has already planned it. But we initially have, with the background of the copies that have come, with the background of the time that one has now had this system, and in particular the extension that happened as a result of a Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget, intend to vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e913	The left has a great deal of sympathy for the content of the proposal, but we agree with the majority that this must be viewed in an overall context based on what the Government is working on. As a government party, the Left has a slightly different channel here than the Socialist Left Party. The left raised issues of increased labour migration, as the only party, during the 2001 election campaign. The Sem-Declaration put the matter on the agenda, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs delivered a consultation opinion in the autumn of 2002. With the enlargement of the EU and thus the enlargement of the EEA, the focus has been elsewhere, and the maritime sector notes the pressure from the LO on transitional arrangements and stricter borders. Today we have a jobseeker visa scheme. We can probably market this system better and work on it, but it's there. It is positive that the Central Party and the Socialist Left so clearly say that they understand the need, and want more. In the view of the Left, it is obvious that value creation and welfare depend on increased labour migration. We simply do not get enough workers in Norway on our own in the years to come. The Left agrees with the Socialist Left when the Party stresses that labour immigration will extend the freedom of citizens of countries outside the EEA to travel and establish themselves in several countries in the world. It is a fundamental liberal respect for the freedom of individuals, in contrast to the old-fashioned claim of the Workers' Party that individuals should submit to their own country and thus be deprived of their real freedom to seek happiness and a good future where they could find it. It's an illusion that people can be shut down inside poor countries in this way. In practice, such justification will only result in countries other than Norway being selected by good workers. It is particularly ironic that it happens in a country that, when it was one of the poorest in Europe, exported 50 pst. of its people to America, when we look at the well-being we have today. It is also about the view of our immigrant population. If the only way to get into this country is through the Institute of Asylum and Refugees, we get a type of immigrant population that makes us not attract those who simply come here to the country because they want to create a good future for themselves and their families. Now the unemployment is going down, but there's a kind of scary picture that we get drawn from the Workers' Party here, which almost says that if someone comes in, they just come to take the work from others. I think that is a somewhat tragic view of growth. I think I have the answer to Per Sandberg's 'why', which I really think is the answer to very many of the extremely many document numbers. The 8-proposals SV have presented in the last. It is clear that they are anxious that if they get into government, this is not something that the Workers' Party is going to fight with them about, so then it's probably as good as trying to get the most decided here in advance, so that you actually have the large numbers behind you when you're going to start negotiating with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e935	Let me just make a few brief comments related to both Document No. The 8th and the 2nd proposals put forward. The government briefed the Government on the further work on labour immigration and the follow-up to the Sem Declaration in connection with the Labour Market Survey, which was dealt with last spring, and where there was a separate chapter on labour immigration. There we gave the lines of how we thought in the future, but also gave clear notice that we thought that in the case of further major regulatory changes to make it more liberal, we should wait and see the impact of EEA enlargement before we took the steps. I've been wondering what you've really been thinking about with this proposal. One thing is that it's fascinating to look at another country and see that they have a system, but in many ways I haven't understood how it fits our system. Because I can't see that this rule is better – if you're not supposed to get in unskilled, but I understand that they should be so-called competent. As far as the Canadian model is concerned, it's generally high-educated, but it's not a lowering of the requirements. And then we actually have a much simpler system. We have a system with an allowance of 5,000. So if you've got a job in Norway, it's not going to be tried in the labour market. You have access to come here. And if you don't know for sure if you want to come to Norway when you're in that category, if you want to see Norway or find an employer, then you have the opportunity to apply for a job visa. Then you can come to Norway for three months and be a jobseeker. So when you have such a visa and you have found a job, you can apply for a work permit from the country. You must not return home, you can apply from here, and you can get a temporary work permit for the period until the permanent work permit is completed. That's why this proposal is a little bit to kick in open doors, so I don't know what you would achieve at all by having more people come. So I just want to say about how we continue to work on the issue of labour immigration: there are some areas where we are now working to make some legislation more practical. In January we had a meeting with the social partners. We invited both LO, NHO and others to discuss practical handling and a more flexible code, and we got some examples that they had. There were not so many, but there were a few fields that we saw that it was possible to continue working with. In addition, we had the discussion: there have not been so many outside the EEA area, and what is it going to do for more? Then I asked the question to those who are the social partners: is there any problem with the legislation, or is there a lack of active recruitment? And if we're going to have more active recruitment, who's going to do it? That was a unanimous answer. It was not the legislation initially that was the big problem, it was probably that, if we were to get more from outside, we had to think about a more active recruitment. There is something quite different than making regulatory changes. But as long as we haven't filled up our quota – and now it's a pretty big gap to fill the quota, as the others come on EEA permits – it's maybe that if you try to actively find someone, the measures to get more from outside the EEA area are not regulatory changes, but actually to ask yourself whether the country should have a strategy, whether some businesses and businesses or public agencies should have a strategy to recruit more people to the country. What makes job-seeker visa schemes etc. Today is used to a small extent, there is likely to be a lack of knowledge; Norway is not so well-known in many other countries, and we may not be attractive enough. The most important thing for me is not the question of how many people are coming, but that those who are coming actually have a job. And it has never been that what has been said in the Sem statement was to be measured whether more were coming, at least not in a situation where the economic situation changed significantly, and where there was increasing unemployment. For the Right, we have been in favour of more liberal labour immigration, but it has always been based on having a job when you are a migrant, and it is clear that that figure will decrease when the economic cycle is bad, and then it will rise when the labour market is in short supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e954	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e970	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e977	At the beginning of 2004, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees estimated that there were 9.7 million refugees in the world. The UNHCR reports a high need for countries to accept several of the refugees for resettlement, and the Storting decided during the 2005 budget review to increase the quota of transfer refugees to 1 000. The Socialist Left promoted proposals to increase the quota to 1 500 refugees. Many of those who have previously come to Norway as refugees from priority areas and camps have close relatives who have not been associated with UDI withdrawals. The proposers believe that the refugee quota should gradually be escalated from the current level of 1 000 per year to 3000 per year in 2009. The proposers also believe that a share of the transfer refugee quota should be allocated to UNHCR-declared relatives in Norway. With the exception of the Advance Party, all the lots, including SV itself, agree that the document be annexed to the Protocol. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not in favour of this proposal. They have a slightly different view in a more restrictive direction. I expect the various parties themselves to explain their views on the matter. I think there is reason to stress that the UNHCR has a return as its primary objective with all the help of refugees. In the right, we agree that return to the home country is the main objective, and that it is primarily desirable to help refugees in their original country or neighbourhoods. I understand, of course, that there will be a need to help resettlement some of the transfer refugees in third countries, and we therefore see it as necessary and appropriate that Norway should provide and assist with the resettlement of people who, for various reasons, will need to be moved to a third country. The United States has placed a greater share of its annual allowances at the disposal of the UNHCR. The United States also plans to increase the refugee quota in its next budgetary period. Norway increased its quota of transfer refugees from 750 to 1000 in the 2005 budget, and the total number of resettlement sites under the auspices of the United Nations will be higher today than a few years ago. The important work on the resettlement of UN refugees in third countries requires thorough preparation of the UN, or UNHCR. We are aware that UNHCR had previously had capacity problems with the treatment process and therefore agree that Norway can assist in improving the manning and resource situation in this area. We also support the ministry's efforts to get more countries to offer resettlement and to consolidate the situation in the fresh resettlement countries. An increase in the quota for transfer refugees will require a strengthening of the budget for the settlement and integration of refugees in Norway. This issue has to be resolved in the context of the 2006 budget review, not today in the context of a private legislative proposal. With regard to the issue of a share of the total quota for refugees to be allocated to UNHCR-declared refugees with families in Norway, I would just like to say that Norway already has an explicit desire to keep refugee families together. So does UNHCR. We therefore agree with the rapporteurs on this point, but believe it will be well taken care of through the close cooperation we have with the UNHCR. There will always be single examples on the contrary, as the proposers also refer to. It is therefore important to have clear rules and good practices for cooperation on the refugee quota. It is important to see the refugee situation in an overall context, and we therefore believe it would be right to follow the UNHCR withdrawal recommendations. But we see that for different reasons it will not always be possible or desirable to achieve 100 pst. family, just as the municipal minister also pointed out in his letter to the committee. In the field of immigration, we in this room have to deal very often with matters on the basis of individual examples and private proposals. This provides both an unfortunate treatment and helps to create an incorrect picture of the policy. Confidence in refugee and asylum policies is best achieved by acting consistently and seeing the long lines. We must conduct a regulated and humane policy. Then it is important to take the time to assess all the elements in each case, and not fall into the trap of a tabloid policy in this area. There is no use – not us and much less those people who need a safe harbour in Norway. Finally, I would like to point out that it seems that SV is going to present a proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber today. It's a proposal that's kind of a follow-up from past times. [[The President clubs.]] The condition in that case at the time was that it was a one-off event, and the Right does not seem to be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1010	We'll see overtime here as an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1013	The rapporteur went into the content of the SV's private proposal and the vote by the municipal committee, and I see no reason to repeat it. The Party agrees that the document is annexed to the Protocol. That is why I want to focus on the proposal from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre to increase the quota for transfer refugees from the UN to 1,500 people per year from 2006. For many years, Norway received 1,500 quota refugees a year. When the Bondevik II government took over the government offices in 2001, it was amazing that the number was halved. So Norway was no longer able to accept 1,500, which is a relatively low number. How the Christian People's Party could accept such a decision is quite incredible and quite incomprehensible. But now they have. Some increase has happened this year, but it's still a long way to 1500. That is why my appeal goes especially to the Christian People's Party, but also to the Left, which criticises the Workers' Party for being so restrictive in immigration policy: now it is possible to participate and create a majority to increase the quota again to 1,500 from next year. It would be a good signal right at the end of this pouring period. Because we must not forget that here we are talking about the most, the poorest in the world. So an explanation of vote in relation to the proposal that SV will address: it will be accepted by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1024	Sometimes you can be short when you want to keep posts in Stortinget. The case rapporteur explained the content of the case, so the only thing I feel I need to say is that in the case of family reunification for refugees, it is the main objective of the Advance Party that it should be done in the country where the family generally has the greatest connection. It does not necessarily have to be in Norway. I think it will be in Norway to a small extent. With regard to the proposal to increase the quota, there has been tradition and normality of doing so in the context of the budgetary procedure, so that it has to be decided for the autumn. I would then like to promote the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1033	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1036	As long as there are wars and dictators in the world, there will be refugees. And so this government, to Kari Lise Holmberg's information, has halved the number of refugees from 1,500 to 750, and then increased this year to 1,000. Kari Lise Holmberg calls for greater predictability. The budget is the place where you really get to take good and complete discussions about refugee policy, in her opinion. Well, she about it. Let's just give ourselves a second to stay at the UN High Commissioner's numbers, which show that it's over $9 million. refugees in the world. Peace building and development assistance are needed to enable people to return. But in addition, we must support the UN's efforts to find new homes for those who have fled from conflicts and who are unlikely to be able to return. In SV, we believe that this must be done by increasing the refugee quota by 500 a year, as we have had in our budgets, until we reach the target of receiving 3,000 UN refugees this year. In addition, we need to contribute better to reuniting families who have gained the status of UN refugees. Today, people live in Norway, some of them Norwegian citizens, who have close family members in refugee camps. The trials of living in peace and wealth themselves, but with closeness and love in need, I think are so great that we can't imagine it. That's why I and SV believe that we should be able to allow people to appeal to the UDI to elect their close family members – siblings, parents, children – as part of the refugee quota if they're already UN refugees. We already have political governance on whom we are accepting, by grouping the refugee quota into sub-groups. The Ministry decides on the recommendation of the UDI. The majority of the Committee believes this is working well today. I don't agree with that, and I mean I know what I'm talking about after myself following up a couple of concrete things. The following happens: UDI tells you to contact UNHCR, and UNHCR tells them to follow up on their requests from UDI. In other words, no one gets hold of matters. I think UDI should do that. Therefore, I believe that we should allocate part of the refugee quota to people in Norway who have close relatives in refugee camps, so that they can be judged by the UDI and UNHCR if their family should be able to come to Norway. In this way, we help a UN refugee, and we remove concerns in the lives of a first-generation Northman, with the positive effects it has. So there's one question that always comes up, and here I'm asking the Council of State to listen. In the case of refugees such as the refugees from Al-Tash, who are now in ‘no man’s country’ between Jordan and Iraq in the Al-Karame camp, the Council of State will not accept them, and this is due to ‘the experience that previous withdrawals from this group have become active participants in Norwegian society to a lesser extent than desired’. That's what she writes in a letter to the committee. I don't think it's an argument, for several reasons, but I'm going to put it aside now, and say instead of the following: Finland and Sweden have both followed up the UNHCR's recommendation to accept refugees from this camp, while Denmark has refused for the same reason as Erna Solberg. However, the refugee aid found out that the claim that they are not well integrated in Denmark is not correct, and the Swedish Foreign Service now recommends receiving 80 from this refugee group. I want to challenge the Council of States to review this information, check out the situation in Norway and see if we too will not follow up the request from UNHCR to accept the refugees in ‘no man’s country’. Then we have one thing that should haunt everyone's bad conscience, and that we are proposing today. This applies to children who have been in reception for a long time. A year ago we unanimously adopted, on the recommendation of the Church and the Red Children, that children who had been here as asylum seekers for three years or more should be dealt with on the following premises: ‘The Committee would stress that a new treatment must be based on a generous assessment based on the specific situation, human considerations and nature of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 3 which states that ‘the best interests of the child shall be fundamental’. This led to just over 234 children and their parents becoming. But we didn't give in to it by the committee. Both the unanimous committee and the case rapporteur, from the government parties, underlined that we expected action from the government to avoid children getting back into the same desperate situation. Anita Apelthun Seele, who was the author of the case, said at the time: ‘However, we see that the issue is not simple, nor is it unique to Norway, and the Committee therefore asks the Government to resolve the issue and then come back to Stortinget with a settlement in its own hands.’ Here the government has not done what Stortinget asked for, and therefore it has been less than a year before we again ended up in the same situation. Information from the UDI shows that per On 1 May 2005, a total of 254 children lived in Norwegian asylum recipients who had applied for asylum more than three years ago. Our obligation under the Children's Convention is to the children, completely independent of what their parents do or think. I find it disappointing that this, where there was a unanimous committee a year ago when the attention was great, and the tears rolled, is now reduced to a proposal supported only by the SV and the Center Party. I refer to our proposals in the vote and the proposal that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1068	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1071	There are many people on the run in the world. Nearly 10 million are waiting in some refugee camp. It is necessary to focus on return as a major strategy, and assistance and international action are essential. We have problems with integration in Norway – we have to recognise that. The Municipal Committee has used a lot of energy and resources to get an introduction program on its legs, in cooperation with the Government, of course. As a matter of fact, what I'm wondering is that other countries seem to integrate or maybe even assimilate new countrymen a little better than us, at least more than us. Canada and the United States are examples, but it's huge land and society. But Israel has also managed to integrate an unlikely number of more refugees and immigrants than we do. In the last ten years, there have been 1 million Russian refugees, all of whom are at least integrated, if not assimilated. And it's a stamp of a country, with a population roughly like Norway. But one must realize that something must continue to wonder. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have increased the quota for transfer refugees to 1000 per year. I'm in agreement with those who say it's a modest number, but we don't see that it's possible to increase this further at the dump of the ageing period. We are also sceptical about SV's new urgent proposal on «long-term» children. I am sorry that there are children in Norwegian reception who are in a difficult situation and who have an uncertain future. But as the case-law spokesman for the proposal that SV has copied – and as I was very pleased with that time, it is true, it was called the warmest spring decision last spring – I would nevertheless like to make it clear that we thought it was a one-time decision. I even think that the SV at that time made it clear. This was also true of children who had actually been here both five and six years of age. The Christian People's Party is not happy to repeat such an extraordinary matter the next day of the session. Well, an objection might be that we have come back in a slightly inconvenient situation with many children who have been here for three years, and it was an intention that we should get faster and more efficient handling of the cases. But it has been a very difficult goal to achieve, not just for long-term children, but for all groups. So it's very difficult to get a quick procedure and a broadcast. The Christian People's Party believes that new 'entrance decisions' in a row and row are unfortunate and lead to the law being eroded. I hope, despite the fact that we have too many rejected, unreturned families with children in Norway now, that the ‘first step’ decision has had an effect on the management of the case, so that the situation of children is even more important than in the past. It should be like this. Then it's a self-evident thing that quota refugees with families in Norway must have a high priority, as they also have. Norway has expressed such a priority, and decisions here will hardly change the situation if it is not satisfactory. I believe that the matter will be dealt with in the minutes, as stated in I, under the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1091	The case spokesperson has made good progress on the refugee situation at the beginning of 2004, i.e. 9,672,000, estimated by the UNHCR. Clearly, there is something about the need for increased efforts in the local environment. It is quite clear that Norway should take its share of the responsibility by bussing some of these. We were very surprised when Bondevik II reduced the number of quota refugees from 1,500 to 750, a figure that they later increased to 1,000. Now, the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party are together to increase this number to 1,500 again from 2006. We know that it requires an increased commitment both when it involves construction, and when it applies to follow-up otherwise. We'll get back to the fall. So a short comment on proposal No. 4, which is distributed in the hall. This proposal had ignited a much better fate. The children in question had also felt a much better fate than being discussed when the clock is nine on the second day of the Storting and without any committee treatment in advance. However, if it is true that on 1 May 2005, 254 children in Norwegian asylum recipients had applied for asylum more than three years ago, it says that the only person in the Joint Committee proposal from last year is not met. We then argued that we got a case where we saw more long-term how children who were bent long in reception were to be treated, based on a situation that we had then – and as we know it is the same now. It's not lucky for any child to be bowing long in reception. What I'm sorry for is that we haven't taken this discussion before in the committee. I think in several parties we have to take inwards that we have not followed well enough here in relation to what we were about in June last year. At the same time, I think we should stand by what we said last year; then a limit was set. It was a one-time decision, but there were certain provisions relating to what was not followed up. If we're going to stand by what we said when it comes to the sequence of penetrating for a long time, it makes sense to vote for an identical proposal this year. Then we have to assume again that there is a review from the Government's side, and that there is a faster clarification for those who are involved. I therefore recommend proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1104	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1120	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1127	A slight look back on this matter is in place, because when the Stortinget dealt with the shipping message ‘Willow to growth — for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries’, the Workers’ Party and the SV went against the amendment of Section 8 of the Foreign Regulation on work permits for foreign seafarers on ships flying a foreign flag between Norwegian ports. The Workers' Party and SV proposed that the Storting should ask the Government to stop proposals for amendments to the Regulation. We believed that the change that the Government was in the process of implementing would undermine Norwegian domestic shipping. We did not get a majority because the Progress Party and the Center Party would not conclude until after the regulation had been consulted. But then it happens that the Progress Party, by representatives Hedstrøm, Solholm, Andersen and Sandberg, recently made a private proposal that the Government should reintroduce the requirement for work permits for foreign seafarers on ships flying the foreign flag with cargo and passengers between Norwegian ports by 1 July 2005 – a completely concrete proposal with a short deadline. With bragging and bram, the boys traveled the coast and told the seafarers' organizations that now the Progress Party was going to take care of it. That would be the order of business. They didn't have to worry about their jobs. The Labour Party was satisfied, because now we got a majority. But then one. Once again, we experience that the Advance Party is opposed to its own proposal, only a few weeks after it has been promoted, but after the lobbyists have been visiting. That's all I had to do. This is disappointing, and it's not tidy. The government now gets the majority, and whoever thinks there's going to be some change now, is shamefully wrong. It's probably just a government shift to the harvest that can clean up. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will have reintroduced the regulation from 1 January 2006 and will ask the Government to explain the work on reintroducing the regulation in the 2006 budget proposal. The working party is concerned. We are concerned that we have a policy that ensures the maintenance of a Norwegian maritime environment and Norwegian maritime workplaces. This is particularly true of district work places. But what the majority is doing here is going the opposite way. This is not least due to the fact that today the Progress Party will vote against its own proposal – a proposal that could have been given a majority. The point of progress is usually anti-immigration. Thousands of people a year will come, it says in the programme of the Progress Party. But in this case, on which they are now involved, it is free from foreigners on the Norwegian coast. There will be seafarers from Russia, Ukraine and other low-cost countries who come to mann the ships in our coastal shipping industry by means of the Progress Party. And anyway, net pay arrangements or not, of course, they will outrun the Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1148	Of course, we can be somewhat surprised that parties are abandoning their own proposals and agreeing with what becomes the majority in this Chamber. Well, it's got to be. Equally full, it's joyous what the Progress Party does. Once the facts have come to the table, when the letters of the Council of State have been submitted, and when the Federation of Shipowners has made the consequence of the proposal visible, you turn around. It's both a joyous and a good news. This again means that these are the arguments you're dealing with, as opposed to the Workers' Party. I find it alarming that the Workers' Party wants to use police resources to run for sailors instead of running for criminals. The resources that the police would have to spend here on control and enforcement would be significant. Does the Labour Party really believe that the Norwegian community is better served by using these police resources to run after seafarers, rather than after criminals? The next point that is eye-catching in the case of the Workers' Party is the EEA obligations of Norway. The commitments now become even clearer as major shipping nations that Malta and Cyprus have joined the EU. Does the Workers' Party really want to enter in order to ensure – at the expense of the EEA Agreement – that only Norwegian seafarers, or at least Norwegian seafarers, are allowed to be on ships engaged on Norwegian domestic voyages?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1157	Sometimes – even in the Progress Party – it may be healthy to realize that you have progressed too quickly. I will honestly admit that I have done so in this case. I'm actually a little proud today, I, of admitting that it's possible to go a little too fast once in a while. But from that onwards to such a low level of debate as the representative Eye puts up, I don't think I belong anywhere. It's still a little interesting, because I'd like to turn the representative's argument all the way down. She thinks it is so strange that the Progress Party, which is against immigration, takes the decision that we are making here today. Then it's a little strange that the Workers' Party, the party that is for the most possible immigration, does what they do. So in this case, they're anti-immigration. And that's the way to argue. I fully agree with the representative Eye that if we had put in place a net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers, we might not have had the big challenges of that type of labour immigration. But the Workers' Party has not wanted to be part of it either, in full. But had there been a proposal on the table here today to introduce 100 pst. the Norwegian Seafarer’s net pay scheme from 1 January 2006 – or preferably from 1 July 2005 – should have been a positive support to the Progress Party. But it had not been part of the Workers' Party, far from it! Then the Workers' Party would have voted against. Nor is it the way Gitmark's representative tries to express it; it is neither a letter from the Council of State nor a letter from the Swedish Shipowner's Association that has led me to think about it twice more. The basic reason why I've thought about it again, that's actually what I mean, is the letter that came from the Shipowners' Association, where they write that at their General Assembly in 2003, they have adopted a main objective of: ‘to work for a Norwegian flag — a register, free on the Norwegian coast. Furthermore, it shall be optional – with a net pay scheme for the Norwegian crew members.’» There are new signals from this association, and that's important to me. For this shipping association, I trust to safeguard Norwegian seafarers' intentions and security. They continue to write: ‘We would advise against the Storting making changes to the regulation after only 5 months and without a prior opportunity for consultation from the industry’. Yes, we'll take that inwards. We also take inwards that this shipping association ‘calls for the case to be referred again, if appropriate, after a more thorough examination of the way in which the experience of today’s regulation is taken into account’. Yes, we agree. Actually, that's what we're asking for. We ask that the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, the Joint Secretariat of the Maritime Organisations and the Shipowners' Association, perhaps by means of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – and Councillor Erna Solberg, would like to find out what the real consequences are of continuing the change that came on 1 January of this year. But then we have to have experience with it. That's what we get. If it turns out that either the Shipowners' Association or other dangers of false impact assessments, I'll have it figured out. Then I'm going to make the right decisions, and I'm going to want to introduce that kind of requirement for work permits, if we find out what the correct consequences of the change are. So it's a little interesting when the representative Eye says that any red-green alternative from the fall of is the only way to put in place a net pay scheme. Yes, I think I can imagine that the Workers' Party will bring SV and the Centre to a net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers from 1 January 2006! I would just like to end by promoting the proposal that the Progress Party shares with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1190	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1193	This case can best be described with the words ‘up like a deer, down like a shit’. We see that the Progress Party actually follows up good proposals from the SV and the Workers' Party, but once they see the consequences of their own proposal and meet little resistance, choose the least resistance path and turn around. Per Sandberg has given a good description of the reverse operation. Signe Eye has given a good description of why it would make sense to reintroduce the rule that we had before. I really feel that there is not so much more to say in the matter, and see that the Progress Party is now going to go new rounds of investigations, so that at least they themselves, the next time they promote a proposal, can be sure that they mean what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1200	In 1996, a new maritime policy was adopted in the Stortinget. The centre party had a strong commitment to a sustainable and prudent tax regime. We recorded with pleasure that the decision led to more seafarers, that the number of apprenticeships was fivefold, that it was registered 32 pst. increase in youth in maritime education and an increase of 24 pst. of the fleet of Norwegian flag. Since 1996, I believe that the Stortinget can count more than 20 changes in the framework of this industry. They have led to insecurity and decline. The centre party is occupied by securing several Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. When the Government announced a change in Section 8 of the Foreign Regulation on labour rights requirements for foreign seafarers, it went forward by Innst. S. No 267 for 2003-2004 that the Centre Party, like the Progress Party, would await the hearing round before we concluded. It was only the government party that supported the government in Stortinget at the time. Then the Progress Party concluded so clearly that they actually produce an own Document No. Eight proposals to ask the Government to reverse – a government that had thus introduced a regulatory change from 1 January 2005. We're worried about the consequences of this change. We thought it was very important to follow developments closely. We probably think that the government should go several rounds in terms of what the short and long term effects of a change, or not change, would result. We haven't been overestimated that there are any immediate negative consequences today. We're going to do what we're doing in the setting. We vote with the Labour Party and SV. We're amazed by the Progress Party's great words and the retreat they're now. Let me make it very clear: there is no reason for the Progress Party to argue over the Centre Party in net pay cases. We're standing where we've been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1215	I am pleased that this proposal is being promoted, especially because this is one of my old proposals. For several years I have been concerned that every day ships sail between ports along the Norwegian coast with foreign crews that neither know the fairways nor are allowed to sail between Norwegian ports. This is not just a highly speculative Norwegian domestic voyage. It is an environmentally dangerous practice. We have had accidents at this speed where very many people have died. I hope this proposal will be adopted, so that we can put a stop to this deadly traffic along the Norwegian coast. I have been talking about this for many years, but have not been heard before. We had a regulation that was not enforced. It's time for a new regulation to be enforced. It is totally unacceptable that foreigners should be able to go from port to port and work without a work permit and residence permit. I am not talking about EU citizens, but about foreigners who are not EU citizens. But what are we witnessing in this matter? Well, the Progress Party once again shows its true face. This case again shows that the Progress Party says one thing, but does something completely different. I am, to put it mildly, shocked that the Progress Party is turning around in this matter as well, adapting its policy to future government cooperation. The Progress Party voted against the Coastal Party's proposal to introduce net wages four years ago. Does this mean that Norwegian seafarers have a future with the Progress Party? No, they don't. We in the Coast Party have always fought for Norwegian seafarers and are still at the barricades of the Norwegian sailor. It's about adding a whole diet. Workshops, dumps, brokers, insurance companies, electronics suppliers, oil companies, paint suppliers – this is a whole industry! It's about social contracts, it has to know. You have social contracts when you have Norwegian flags and Norwegian teams, but when you have foreign flags and foreign teams, you don't have much social contract with Norwegian society. Don't people understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1247	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1263	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1274	The research message has received an incredibly good reception. From business organisations, from individual enterprises, from the university and higher education sectors, from the institute sector and from individual researchers, there is almost a unison commitment to the visions, objectives and actions proposed by the Government in the Communication. This broad and positive response is also reflected in the current attitude of the Church, Education and Research Committee. The Committee's observations are in many ways a cross-political link to the broad lines and priorities of the Communication, with some references to areas which should be further prioritised. This I will come back to. I also assume that the parties which have different priorities and proposals will promote and justify their own proposals. In particular, the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party, which also conducts some internal competition to spend most of the taxpayers' money, are involved in this case. Understand the one who can. The Storting Communication, Will for Research, has a broad review of Norwegian research activity and policy, including the need for increased research. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the need to set high and ambitious targets for Norwegian research. The continuation and further development of our welfare society depends on new knowledge, new products and new services. Here, research is our main input. The economy is becoming increasingly knowledge-dependent, and the importance of research for innovation and value creation, both in the private and public sectors, is constantly increasing. In some specialised areas and industries, Norway has become world leader in a few years. This applies, for example: knowledge-intensive and knowledge-driven industries such as offshore activities, maritime activities and some marine sectors. It shows that even a small nation with limited resources can win out on the international and global competitive arena. The Committee endorses the structural and thematic areas proposed by the Government as a priority. Internationalisation, basic research and research for more innovation and innovation shall be comprehensive for research in areas where we have many natural advantages – energy and environment, sea, food and health, where existing and new technologies are assumed to be used and further developed, preferably for new innovations, products and services. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, have joined the Government's ambitious objective of achieving the Norwegian research effort of 3 pst. of GDP by 2010. This is, moreover, in line with the objective of the EU. The EU wants to become the world’s most competitive region by the same time. In order to achieve this economic objective, the public share of R & D appropriations shall be increased to 1 pst. of GDP, corresponding to approximately DKK 6 billion, while business will account for the other share, corresponding to approx. DKK 24 billion per year. years. Achieving this objective is a major challenge, in particular as regards the growth of R & D activities in industry. A majority of the Committee, including the Right and other government parties, therefore considers that significant public efforts should be directed towards triggering and stimulating increased research efforts by industry. The emphasising and prioritizing of innovation and innovation, mathematics, science and technology in the Research Communication are, in my opinion, important contributions to meeting business needs. I will come back later to further measures that will be and can be undertaken to achieve the necessary growth in research appropriations from industry. Priority of limited resources is also important in research. From the right, I find it worth stressing that the emphasis of the Communication on innovation-oriented research does not mean any depriority of research in other important areas, including basic research. The priorities set out the main lines for the disposal of increased research resources, including: to trigger increased efforts by the private sector. Free basic research is in many ways the basis for success in applied research, and it will continue to be a very important activity, especially at our universities and colleges. In this context, the majority of the Committee points out that it is necessary to take action to stimulate increased research in the field of real science and technology, in order to maintain and increase Norway’s capacity for value creation. The Committee has underlined the importance of participation in international cooperation projects and research projects in order to maintain quality and relevance in Norwegian research, but also to be able to participate in the funding opportunities opened up by international research programmes, such as: in the EU. In addition to the EU area, the Committee pointed out that cooperation aimed at North America, Japan, China and Russia should be given priority. Since yesterday in Stortinget we dealt with another big message, the so-called North Region Communication, I find reason to stress the enormous challenges and opportunities facing Norway in the north, and which can to a large extent only be solved by means of research and new knowledge production within a number of disciplines. In this context, the Committee has underlined the role of Svalbard in relation to Arctic research and the responsibilities of universities and universities in the north to contribute to increased education and research in the relevant areas, and asked the Norwegian Research Council to assess the possibilities for a dedicated North Sea Programme within the Strategic Investments of the Research Council. Quality is a horizontal objective for all research, but at the same time it is not a unambiguously defined concept. Product characteristics, originality, soundness, professional relevance and societal or practical utility may differ to some extent. Traditional quality criteria in academic research are not always equally relevant for applied research and for commercialising research results. The work on quality improvement measures and criteria for quality and performance in research must therefore continue and be prioritised. The Committee would otherwise point out that several fascinations indicate that Norwegian research is generally characterised by fragmentation. Many environments are small and vulnerable. In this context, I would like to point out the need for increased strategic cooperation between the research institutions and the responsibility of the management of the institutions to make this work. Strategic planning and professional management can undoubtedly be better and is a necessary prerequisite for achieving our ambitious objectives. The Communication launches proposals to set up centres for research-driven innovation, in line with the model of the scheme of centres for excellence in research. This can be an important contribution to stimulating innovation capacity in business and in the public sector. Through increased focus on long-term fundamental research with high requirements for scientific quality and relevance to industry and society, research-driven innovation and innovation could be significantly improved. According to several feedback, this proposal is very well received by industry itself. I also consider it important to stress that research-driven innovation and innovation are at least as important for the public sector as for private business. Research and development contribute positively to the necessary transformation, to knowledge of how migration processes can and should take place, and not least to understanding the need for migration. Research develops new ideas and technologies that are not yet in demand and helps us to meet the future in the best possible way. Research plays an important role as a basis for policy-making and management and makes important contributions to an open societal debate. In this area, it is likely that many researchers and research communities can become even more attractive to popular scientific representation, so that results and new knowledge can reach far more, and also to participate in and create debate in public space. In order to achieve the desired results of the research, appropriations are only one of several necessary prerequisites. Access to good researchers, the ability to recruit and retain good researchers and, above all, the ability to provide researchers with good framework conditions in the form of equipment and different operational means are essential. This is given a great deal of emphasis on meeting through a number of actions mentioned and proposed in the Communication, not least the possibilities of accessing smaller research funds to launch different and new research projects. The Government, with its decision today, has broad support for the Research Communication’s priorities and actions. Now it only remains to ensure a large majority in the next period that will allow the Government to continue and get the opportunity to implement and complete the goals that will be adopted tonight. This provides a good basis for continued value creation, knowledge development and welfare development in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1317	The title of the Government's Research Communication is «Delivery to Research». The Swedish government handed over its research report to the Riksdag under the name «Research for a Better Life». The Swedish title would, in my opinion, have been best scored on a communication component. It says that increased research is not just an objective in itself, but that research has a purpose and direction. Research and research-based knowledge has and will have a major impact on the development of our future society, both for the public and private sectors. The Labour Party therefore believes that we should have ambitious targets for Norwegian research. The Labour Party joins the objective of increasing the total R & D effort in Norway to 3 pst. of GDP by 2010 and public/private distribution. It will be particularly demanding to increase the contribution of industry in relation to the objective. We therefore need to make substantial public efforts to facilitate and stimulate business for its own research efforts. Here we have established arrangements, for example: Tax FUNN and user-driven R & D programmes, and new ones are proposed to us, for example. research-driven innovation centres and incentives for private funding for research purposes. The goal is ambitious, and action is required on a planned basis. The Government is therefore requested by the 2006 State Budget to propose a stepping-up plan for public research efforts by 2010 and to carry out annual evaluations of the overall research effort and development of the public and business sectors. It will provide opportunities to propose new measures in relation to business and, where appropriate, to increase public participation in order to achieve the overall objective. Norwegian research must give priority to areas where we, as a nation, have natural or other special advantages. Within the thematic efforts, we need to focus on areas where Norway has internationally leading research environments and historical, geographical or particular nutritional benefits. I would particularly like to point to the marine sector, the maritime industry and the petroleum sector. We should have the ambition to be world leaders in the field of petroleum research, and the country should conclude partnership agreements with the oil industry in order to promote such an objective. The Workers' Party is committed to organising and increasing efforts in health research. We should, among other things, aim to develop wider and heavier environments such as the ability to attract Norwegian and international researchers and research communities. It requires cooperation between authorities, pharmaceutical industry and research communities, for example: in the field of cancer research. In this context, I will also mention the importance that legislation does not prevent Norwegian researchers from participating in research that can benefit from the medical advances that biotechnology and genetic engineering offers. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the UK has asked the Government to present a revised Biotechnology Act that can ensure this. If a priority is to be given, not all fields of research can be ranked at the top. But at the same time, it is important to maintain and strengthen areas where we are already strong. The heavy Norwegian research environments in the social sciences and humanities are internationally recognised. The development of the public sector must be based on knowledge-based research. So there is a great need for social research that provides the basis for future decisions on resource use, organisation and improvement of public services. The quality of research requires that we follow and actively participate in international research. I would particularly like to emphasise participation in the design of a common European research policy and activity in relation to the EU Framework Programmes. Here, a developed landscape with the power to participate in international research cooperation and funding from international programmes should be developed. More cooperation is required between universities and colleges, institutes and businesses. Authorities must ensure framework conditions and funding allowing for participation in competition in the international arena. We must also fulfil our international obligations. In principle, the objective of the UN for a more economically, ecologically and socially sustainable society must be reflected in the objectives of innovation and research policy. For example, more particular needs to be done. health research assists developing countries in combating poverty diseases and is more clearly integrated as an instrument in development policy. More research is needed on global health issues. Studies show that enterprises have a clear self-interest in investing in R & D work. At the same time, however, we see that large Norwegian companies appear to spend less money on research and development in a comparison between 2001 and 2002. In this context, industry must take on its own responsibility without waiting for the authorities to come forward with financial support on an ongoing basis. Large enterprises where the State is a significant owner should have a specific responsibility to take the lead in research efforts. But, of course, authorities need to develop instruments and stimulate business in this area. Further closer cooperation between authorities, businesses and research institutions is needed. Interaction venues and meeting places must be established. There can be no room for fear of an active country or for economic neutrality. The latter is directly in conflict with the research priorities. Research results from Norwegian universities and universities need to be better exploited. But I would like to stress that long-term research and knowledge-building are not sacrificed at the expense of more short-term and commercial interests. In many contexts, potential commercial exploitation will be hampered by the lack of capital at a start-up stage. The seed funds in the university cities can help to remedy this, and I am pleased that such a scheme is also being established in Tromsø. The Labour Party believes that public procurement, to an extent of DKK 250 billion a year, is an unused resource to promote innovation in business and public services. Public procurement must be used to stimulate increased research and development. In addition, the authorities should seek long-term agreements with industry, entire industries or associations of large enterprises for increased R & D efforts, where there is a mutual commitment to an agreed amount. Current areas may include the construction industry, the farming industry, and not least, as I mentioned earlier, the oil industry. In addition, I would like to highlight the need for innovation and development related to private services such as trade and transport. In short, we need activity from authorities in interaction with business and research environments. Increased research efforts require more researchers. The size has adopted a step-up plan for grant holders, which must be followed up. The Workers' Party joins the proposal for a national scheme of research schools and the introduction of a system of doctoral thesis. in Norway. Particular attention must be paid to recruitment to real science and technology. Good pay and working conditions and safety in the position are important. The use of temporary employment means that the Workers' Party undermines the employment protection of employees and helps to make the research profession of our institutions less attractive. We therefore oppose the Government's proposal for a new temporary post. The Progress Party has a highly unclear position here. They have argued against the law of higher education in two ways, but agreed with the government parties for enlargement. In this position, the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party and a majority, writes that they are sceptical about continuing the comprehensive system for the use of various forms of temporaryity in different employment relationships which have been provisionally maintained by the Law on Higher Education. But they are equally fully in favour of a new temporary position. It will be interesting to see what the Progress Party does when we get back our own case on annual and temporary employment in the sector. Shortness of time is also a critical factor for good research. The time spent on research needs to be ensured by our institutions, and it is important to look at the impact of the Quality Reform for the research period in this context. I am pleased that Stortinget will continue a system of individual doctoral degrees, which may be a positive contribution to recruitment. The objective of equality between men and women in education and research institutions is far-reaching. In particular, there are two challenges: increasing the proportion of women in disciplines and in disciplines with few women, in particular science and technology, and increasing the proportion of women in fixed scientific positions, especially in top positions. Equality is about equal opportunities for both sexes, but also about research quality, about exploiting the overall resources and ensuring a broadest possible recruitment basis for research positions. Universities and higher education institutions have a special responsibility for carrying out long-term basic research. The Workers' Party agrees that the appropriations for basic research should be increased, both directly to the institutions and through the Norwegian Research Council, and growth should be distributed on the basis of professional results and quality. I would also like to stress that the funds for discipline-based free projects in all areas of the Research Council need to be strengthened. The Workers' Party wants the authorities to stimulate and support research cooperation between universities and between universities and universities. State universities must become key players in regional development and innovation. Particular attention must be paid to the relatively low level of R & D activity in North Norway and measures to increase it, for example: a dedicated research programme linked to the north. The Labour Party will only decide on the content of new funding system for universities and higher education when it is presented in the context of the government budget for next year. I am therefore not commenting on this further here. The institute sector is an important part of our research system. These must be guaranteed a basic funding for the long-term research and the building of competences. Research is going to give us a better life. The foundation is now laid in Stortinget for a reinforced effort in the field of research, and it is done with cross-political consensus. It's necessary. We have to lift in a pack to achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1380	Even for a snarling mountain ranger, it can be short by ten minutes on such an extensive message. I will start by including the proposal of the Advance Party in the setting. We are pleased that a new research report has been presented which appears to provide mainly good descriptions of the challenges and objectives of Norwegian research in the years to come. There is broad agreement in the Committee on many important aspects mentioned in the Communication. It's important. Nevertheless, there are different views in some areas. But the challenge is also this time as it was in connection with the previous research report, St.meld. No 39 for 1998-99, Research at a time gap, namely whether and how sufficient resources are provided to meet the research objective. The aim of the previous research report was that research efforts in Norway ‘are in line with the OECD average over the next five-year period, measured as a share of GDP’. Research effort as a percentage of GDP for Norway was below the EU average in 2003 measured in 2002. The Progress Party supports the Government's research effort objectives, which are in line with the EU's objective. We will stress that when the new research report specifies the goal of 3 pst. by 2010, the means to achieve this objective should be both realistic and clear. Today's level of 1.75 pst. which is the starting point, is still far away from this goal. When the objective is 1 pst, respectively. for the public sector and 2 pst. for the private sector, the challenge becomes significant, especially for the private sector. We believe that the Communication lacks a thorough discussion of instruments in general and a discussion of instruments to ensure, in particular, that the private sector meets the 2 pst target. by 2010. The Progress Party lacks particular discussion of fiscal policies and incentives. In our view, there is a significant weakness in the notification that we have not received such a discussion. As a very rich oil nation, Norway now has a special opportunity to invest intensively in research to ensure future value creation after the use of oil and gas resources. We miss a thorough discussion in the Research Communication on how the nation's oil wealth can be used for national investment in research as an investment in social infrastructure. Norway’s wealth provides the nation with the opportunity to raise its national value creation through a strong commitment to research. The Communication does not at all discuss whether this possibility exists or how it can be used. We believe that there is a significant defect in the notification. In concrete terms, the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen propose that, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, a mechanism be established to cover the expenditure of the Norwegian State on the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and on national membership of international research organisations over a foreign budget. Only the cost of the EU Framework Programme can amount to more than 1 600 million. kr. The amount is paid abroad. The national public research budgets need not be charged. Instead, we can release 1 600 million. SEK for research efforts in Norway. Similarly, the Progress Party believes that we can finance the purchase of scientific equipment. What we need is bought almost without exception from the rest of the world. We need a lot of new equipment, too much of what we have, is old. We have advice! In the view of the Progress Party, we cannot talk about results and not at all on behalf of others. If we are to stimulate and motivate the private sector to take up a research initiative, we need to be clearly involved. If we don't do the math without a host. The Progress Party believes that public research efforts in the period up to 2010 need to be increased to 1.4 pst. to ensure that we achieve the overall objective by 2010. That is why we are also promoting proposals for a further provision for the Research Fund, amounting to 50 billion kroner. It'll probably cost $2 billion more in the annual public research effort. We believe that there should be an additional communication to the submitted research report that specifically addresses two issues: the use of oil money and the use of instruments to track business to achieve its objective. We have set out in the report a number of the conditions that we believe it should be considered in relation to private sector tax incentives. Research requires long-termity. The Progress Party believes that research notifications should be drawn up with 10-year horizons and action programmes with corresponding committed budgets to be rolled every five years. Without such a long-term and clear commitment, it becomes quite similar to the national transport plan. There is also a plan where you have good intentions, but you have annual budgets that make actual progress more and more depending on the plan and the good intentions. Furthermore, the comparison with the national transport plan is quite good and illustrative. In our opinion, we should view research as an investment in infrastructure – just as important as roads are for value creation, both in the present and in the future. Therefore, the Progress Party, together with the members of the Workers' Party, of the Centre Party and the representative Simonsen, substantially also supports SV, a proposal that the Government, in the context of the 2006 State Budget, submit proposals for a stepping-up plan for the public research effort up to 2010. When it comes to recruiting researchers, I report again that we in the Progress Party are rejecting the special provisions of the University and Higher Education Act. Since I was given a visit by the previous speaker, I remember that we correctly formed a majority in order to get the law of higher education back. It was actually well-advised – after we had dealt with a new work environment law and a new official law. We will continue to require particular good reasons for special provisions of the Law of Higher Education relating to the conditions of employment of temporary staff. That must be particularly good reasons. They must be well documented. That there are particularly good reasons for drawing the temporary period to well over 12 years, we are still quite sceptical about it. A few words at last in connection with the Quality Reform. The Committee takes the view that, when adjustments and changes are to be made to the funding system relating to the research component of universities, colleges and health enterprises, the important link between research and the quality reform must be ensured. 27 pst. research takes place in the university and higher education sectors. We are pleased that a majority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, point to this link and underline that the scientific staff of the institutions involved in research-based education also have time to carry out and participate in high-quality research. There are feedback on the implementation of the Quality Reform that raises doubts as to whether that time is sufficient, and there are feedback we should take inwards and take seriously. We also need to see that there is a link between research efforts and quality reform, which should be re-examined when creating a new funding system. In concrete terms, the Progress Party believes that this can and should be done through an increase in the amount within the educational component. We have to accept that it costs to provide research-based education. Finally – I see the clock running: Some words about academic freedom. We are well pleased that the initiative we have seen come from especially younger researchers, in order to ensure academic freedom, is maintained by the Committee. The Committee recommends a system of individual doctoral degrees in Norway and that they continue to be awarded by the Norwegian Research Council or by other appropriate means. It is important that a new research report is in place. It has good visions. It has good objectives for research efforts in Norway. The message unlock is good. But we need, as I started to point out, binding public funding to ensure that we achieve the objectives. Norway is a rich country, and the Progress Party will invest oil wealth. This could be a final point to the rapporteur. We will invest oil wealth in research efforts to ensure future value creation in Norway. The private sector needs to be invited and encouraged to step up its research efforts, and we believe that the means of this effort must provide clearer temptations for the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1435	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1438	Investing in research is investing in the future. Research is an important source of new and better ways of producing and thus of progress and increased well-being. Research is essential for growth and development in order to see contexts and acquire new knowledge. In order for Norway to be able to follow developments internationally, it is necessary to increase research efforts. Increased research is not just an objective in itself, but research should also have purpose and direction. Research will help create a better life for everyone. SV agrees with the Government of the ambitions of 3 pst. of GDP by 2010. It's almost a double from today's 1.7 pst. But the problem with the government's bet is that the government has no real plans for how to finance this increase. Even Minister of Research Clement says that industry should contribute the most, and that they must triple their research by 2010 in order to achieve the government's objectives. I haven't found anyone who thinks this is realistic at all. I haven't seen anyone in university environments, in research environments or in companies that think this is realistic. On the contrary, all concrete plans for achieving this objective are called for. SV does not believe it is realistic that in five years' time there will be an overall growth for business of DKK 23 billion. The government is ambitious on behalf of others, and it's easy. But we have to ask ourselves, is it likely that Norwegian Forest, Telenor or Orkla will triple their research just because the government says it? The local and regional economy needs to be able to release funds for increased investment in research. It is such that the industrial structure in Norway is characterised by small and medium-sized enterprises, where lack of risk capital is a critical factor in investing in long-term research projects and in the next phase translate research results into commercially interesting projects. I fully agree that the large companies need to research more than today, but it is realistic that the state assumes a greater share of the financial burden than the government imposes. Otherwise, I am afraid that the objectives of increasing research efforts will fall into fish. SV believes it is important to have an action plan on how to strengthen the relationship between research and employment, and today supports proposals to this effect. SV remains alone on this proposal. It is important to have high ambitions for research. The ambitions of the previous notification, which extends until the end of 2005, were that Norway should have an overall research effort that is in line with the OECD average. If we had reached the target, today we would have used about 2.23 pst. of GDP in 2005. Only to a small extent has Norway approached the target during this ageing period. I remember this because it's important when you set goals, also to bring with you some degree of realism. Setting a goal that is unrealistic could be depressing and frustrating. Moreover, this type of objective will easily be discredited and reinforce the political bias because, in retrospect, there is a discrepancy between the objectives that have been set and the political will. When you set a goal, you have to have a plan to achieve it. Therefore, SV believes that the ambitions must be followed up with concrete and realistic plans for how to achieve increased research. The most realistic plan to achieve this is to increase the State's research fund, so that its returns increase and more research can be used. Today, the Research Fund is about $35 billion. Today, SV proposes that the fund be increased to DKK 100 billion by 2010, i.e. a concrete escalation plan. In concrete terms, SV proposes that the Research Fund should be DKK 70 billion in 2006, DKK 90 billion in 2007 and DKK 100 billion in 2008. SV proposes an obligatory escalation plan because there is a lack of binding economic escalation plans, which was a weakness in the previous research report, which was addressed in 2000. In addition to the fact that the rapprochement plan will act as a means of pressurising the annual state budget treatment, a plan will also provide the heavy research communities with better planning opportunities. When, unfortunately, our proposal will fall into the Chamber today, we will subsidiaryly support I, where a government asks for proposals to be made for a stepping-up plan in the 2006 state budget, to be regularly evaluated and for which there will then be a majority. In order to make use of each crown of a insert in the research, it is necessary to have the tools in order. Increased investment in new equipment is necessary. Therefore, SV today proposes that the Government in the budgets for 2006 and 2007 propose DKK 1 billion each year for the procurement of scientific equipment. This proposal also remains on its own. The Communication emphasises quality and relevance as the main criteria for future research priorities. In order to ensure quality, increased competition for research funds is introduced. But research is of the nature, both basic research and the nutritionist working to solve concrete problems, that it often has a long time horizon. Traditional competition with a comprehensive application procedure is not an effective way to ensure quality and relevance. There's an enormous amount of resources being spent today writing applications, too much time going by, I'd say. The approval rate is low in several of the Research Council's programme areas. As a result, many good and important projects do not receive funding. Quality and relevance depend primarily on the professional strength of the environment and the competence of the contracting entities to define the problems and future challenges. One must therefore build strong professional environments and, through long-term financing, give them the opportunity to face competition from foreign institutions and institutions. Increased basic funding for institutes is a way of increasing the impact of Norwegian research, as well as closer cooperation between universities, universities and institutes. SV believes that part of the increased State research effort must be channelled directly to universities and higher education through the funding model. It is far this country, and it is varied. If one looks at the distribution of research, North Norway is strongly divided by the rest of the country. It is necessary to take action, otherwise North Norway will end up in a research shadow and thus get in the back of both development and competence. I am pleased that the Committee has joined SV in establishing a country-wide seed fund also at the University of Tromsø. SV believes that we should also use different instruments. That is why we are proposing our own research fund for North Norway. I am a little surprised that no more parties support this proposal, especially the Workers' Party, which has been out in the past and said in the northernmost newspapers that they support such a fund. SV supports the Government in the thematic research it has outlined: energy and environment, food, sea and health. But we also propose a fifth theme called ‘welfare, knowledge and innovation’. This is because the Nordic welfare model gives the Nordic countries a competitive advantage. It's a advantage that we need to develop and improve. Therefore, there is a need to increase knowledge of the advantages of the welfare state and the challenges it faces in a globalised world. The heavy Norwegian research communities in social sciences and humanities are internationally recognised. SV believes that Norway should be the world leader in both petroleum research and renewable energy. It is an enormously untapped potential for the use of alternative energy and the need to improve sustainable energy systems. The natural advantages give Norwegian environments the opportunity to assert themselves in international research in this area, while the results will bring great social benefits. Priority needs to be given to increased research into an additional and alternative energy. Today the production of solar, solar, wind, bioenergy and new transport solutions is growing by 20-35 pst. This year. The investment amounts to several tens of billions of dollars a year. This is just a taste of growth to the future. The point is that if we dare to bet now, we can have great advantage when it really applies. In fact, 300 people are already working in two companies in Nordland, Scancell and ScanWafer, producing parts for solar cells. There are huge possibilities, and we have a huge potential if we go into this. The rapporteur spoke on a number of important points and areas in which the Committee stands together. I want to say that I am very happy that we have this research report for treatment today. Increased research is important both for competence and for development. But, as I said, the big point of the SV's appeal is that we lack a concrete action plan in relation to the means by which we want to go in to strengthen research. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is on its own, and what we're working with the Center Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1482	The representative Lena Jensen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1485	It is now six years since the Stortinget last dealt with a research report, and a new treatment is natural to establish status and draw up new guidelines. Now we're going to draw up the lines until 2010. At the same time, it is important to remind each other that research is a long-term exercise if we are to achieve our goals. The Christian People's Party believes Norwegian research is on the right track. The 1999 Research Communication from the Council of State Lilletun represented a time gap. After that, we have more indications of increased quality in research, and resources have increased. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government when it wants to strengthen research, but does not radically change it. The government's message is now also widely endorsed by politics. The 1999 Research Communication also set ambitious targets for efforts. We have not reached the resource target, but ambitious targets are nevertheless necessary. Norway has the prerequisites for becoming a leading research nation, and the Christian People's Party shares the Government's ambition to increase the total research effort to 3 pst. of GDP, of which 1 pst. from public sources. We also agree that the capital of the Research Fund will be increased to DKK 50 billion from January 2006. Norway cannot give priority to all research purposes that we have to choose. Then it is wise to continue the areas of activity to which the previous biggest message added, namely energy and the environment, sea and health, and I get to add food. We also agree that there is a need to take internationalisation seriously, by making it a horizontal perspective in research policy. Basic research must continue to be a key priority, with a higher level of emphasis on quality. It is also necessary to focus on research-driven innovation and innovation, which will support the conversion and renewal of Norwegian industry and the public sector. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the focus on technology areas in strong development and on broad application possibilities, as we find in ICT, biotechnology and materials and nanotechnologies. Of the many challenges we face, the biggest step is to increase the research effort of business. The Christian People's Party believes the Government is sketching wise strategies to increase their involvement. To increase public funds, we have politicians in control of it. It's harder to make business grow. Many of the objections to the Government’s research report have focused on the question of whether it is possible to achieve the objectives of research efforts in industry. I agree that this is a major challenge. It is therefore important that the Government has a close dialogue with the business community to find good measures that make it interesting for companies to increase their research in Norway. The Christian People's Party has noted with interest that the tax FUNN has contributed positively to increased R & D in the business world. Several research-driven innovation centres may also be important contributions. Increased emphasis on mathematics, science and technology in basic research will increase the quality of these areas and provide the basis for increased value creation in business over time. The structure of business, with many small enterprises and concentration on industries with low research intensity, gives us special challenges. However, we also have areas where we are leading, for example. in the case of offshore technology. Research is of a global nature, and Norway should be interested in the location of research from large international groups through access to research facilities and well qualified and reasonable labour. The Christian People's Party will highlight in particular the opportunities we have for research and industrial development related to the sea. It is important to ensure good and knowledge-based management of coastal and marine areas. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will increase efforts in the marine sector. Furthermore, there is still a potential for industrial development in maritime industries. Here Norway has a strong international position that we need to take care of. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee points to NTNU and Marintek in Trondheim as a heavy maritime-technical research environment in Europe. It is important to invite several countries, including the EU countries, to attract larger exchange rates in this environment. The Committee therefore asks the Government to work to make Marintek a European research laboratory within the European Research Cooperation. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to take an active part in European research cooperation. The European Commission has announced a sharp increase in the Seventh Framework Programme. Depending on whether the EU finds a solution to its budgetary problems, Norway has to expect to increase its membership quota in the years ahead. In this context, it is important to influence the content of the Framework Programme so that Norway can benefit from cooperation. The Christian People's Party also agrees that research must be more clearly integrated as an instrument in development policy. Few developing countries have the means to carry out good research on poverty diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS on their own. Norway has a good environment that can contribute to this research. I am therefore pleased that a majority in today's position believes resources currently used for national health research should be used more widely for global health research with a focus on poverty diseases. We need to build partnerships between the public and private sectors to support this research. In the past, the Christian People's Party has called for more sources of funding for research in Norway. Today, the Norwegian Research Council has a very central role to play in the distribution of public research money. The Christian People's Party believes it is desirable to continue the role of the Research Council. At the same time, we welcome the proposal that gifts for research amounting to more than 5 million. kr from individuals and businesses, which may trigger a public gift enhancement of 25 pst. This system should apply when the gift goes to all institutions, such as universities and colleges with research competence. I hope this can increase the interest among individuals and businesses in investing in research. The scheme is intended to mobilise new funds in addition to those currently contributed by private institutions. The Christian People's Party is keen on the experience of this action, and in the future we will also consider whether such schemes can be extended to non-governmental organisations that want to fund research. Thus, research policies can also contribute to stimulating the volunteering of society, while at the same time triggering increased resources for good and societal research. In many cases, research raises major ethical issues. The Christian People's Party believes that research ethics and ethical issues in general need to be more focused on higher education, including the training of researchers and research communities. We need an active public debate on the ethical issues the research travels. Researchers have a separate ethical responsibility and a responsibility to contribute to public participation in the considerations taken. This is important in order to legitimise research and provide opportunities for dialogue and acceptance in society as a whole. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is warning a proposition on the legalisation of a comprehensive research ethics committee system, and how dishonesty in research is to be treated. With this setting, the Government will support ambitious research goals. There is broad political outreach on the strategies for achieving the objectives. A coordinated policy for higher education, research and innovation is needed if we are to contribute positively to the value creation needed to secure the welfare society of the future. In addition, the R & I instrument must cooperate closely with regional development actors and industry. Universities and colleges need to develop a good commercialisation policy for their research efforts, but also cooperate closely with industry. When this is said and the possibilities for application are underlined, it is also important to bear in mind that research itself has a self-value. Developing new knowledge not only has an impact on business but will benefit society and culture as a whole. Knowing and creating improves the quality of life. The dissemination of knowledge and research results is therefore a key task for research institutions. It can create new inspiration and curiosity, which can trigger further research and development. It will be important for the recruitment of researchers in the future. The Christian People's Party is part of the broad majority behind the Committee's position. The treatment of the annual budgets in the future determines whether the resource targets are met. It will be the natural time to assess whether the strategies work. The Christian People's Party will, by these crossroads, show the will for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1515	As the submissions so far have shown, and as the setting also shows, there is broad agreement on the high targets set by the Communication for Norwegian research, as well as on the structural areas such as internationalisation, basic research and research-based innovation and innovation, the thematic areas of energy and the environment, sea, food and health, and ICT, materials and nanotechnologies as well as biotechnology. In order to further develop the welfare community, research is a crucial input. Increased value creation in areas where we are good, where we have priority, and where we are leading, depends on enhanced research efforts along with other instruments. During these minutes I will point out in some areas of the centre party it is necessary to have the attention focused on when to follow up the message. The first concerns the requirement of increased competition in research funds. The Communication emphasises quality and relevance as the main criteria for future research priorities. In order to ensure quality, the Communication raises increased competition for research funds. The centre party questions whether traditional competition with a comprehensive application procedure is always an effective way to ensure quality and relevance. Another case is that of tenders, which are not within the competence of this Council of States, but also that of tendering rules in relation to public research missions. If a contract is of NOK 200000 or more, it must be tendered. I have understood some signals so that these tendering rules may be lifted, and it will also serve the research and research communities working towards the public sector. The institute sector is the other area I want to focus on. The institutions rely on adequate resources for the long-term building of competences. The central party therefore considers it essential that the institutions have a basic allocation to support such a long-term nature. Today, on average, institutions have a basic funding share of about 18 p.m. We believe that it should be increased to about a third, and we are promoting a proposal asking the Government to come back with a financing scheme that ensures this long-termity of Norwegian research institutes. So to the goal of increasing the research effort to 3 pst. of GDP by 2010, and that the research effort of industry is to be 2 pst. of this. The centre will stress that the main challenge is the planned growth of business R & D. Therefore, the centre party considers that greater public efforts aimed at triggering major industrial R & D efforts are essential. We need a set of instruments. Some have said that it is easy to make goals on behalf of others, but industry is seeing, hopefully, the need to strengthen R & D efforts. Then it's the Storting's job to create a good enough framework for this increased R & D effort. The previous research report was also ambitious, but the objectives have not been achieved. The slowing up of e.g. the number of scholarship holders is one example. The annual budgets shall determine whether the objectives of this Communication are to be achieved. It is then necessary to have an overview of developments. The Central Party is therefore involved in a proposal – which receives majority support from SV – where Stortinget asks the Government of the State Budget for 2006 to propose a stepping-up plan for public research efforts by 2010 and to carry out evaluations of the overall research effort in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1535	This research report is very much in agreement. It is good because it is offensive, but it is also good for research that there is a great deal of consensus in this room about the future of research. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, who has brought us to a common understanding. Because there is so much consensus about the communication, I want to use my speaking time to shed light on some ideological perspectives relating to research policy. Research has a value in itself, not just as an instrumental benefit to society. Critical publicity depends on the participation of researchers in their knowledge of social, cultural and technological developments. Academic principles and non-market principles must be allowed to guide research processes. In particular, it is important that researchers retain their role as a democratic counter-power to authorities and businesses. The aim of the left is that Norwegian research communities should have sufficient framework conditions to produce knowledge at a high international level. Basic research funding must continue to be a central element of the funding of the university and higher education sectors, and it will be confirmed with the research communication today. Norwegian research communities must be given the opportunity to develop knowledge across a broad register, both through free basic research and through research with a more direct impact on the business and value creation of the future. The left has always advocated a rapid and vigorous escalation of the overall research effort of society. That is why we are pleased with the ambitious goals of the Regereninga in the message. The work on commercialising research results should be stimulated and rewarded. Universities and individual researchers need to be provided with assistance and access to resources for the commercialisation and patenting phase. Here, the Government has put in place a number of measures that will make it much easier. We need a good balance between free basic research and nutrition research. Free research is one of the pillars of our democracy and has great self-esteem. From time to time, free basic research can be more nutrient-oriented than nutrient-oriented research. In the message, there is a focus on the real subjects. It's important for two reasons: first, these subjects are still in focus, and it's resource-intensive subjects that need their own focus to be raised. Secondly, funding mechanisms in relation to universities and higher education are such that student access controls large parts of resource access in research. Therefore, it is important that we build up dams that do not lead to a purely student-driven research priority. On the freedom of researchers, I would like to say that we must first of all cultivate the curious scientist and not the bureaucracy. It presents challenges to how we organise access to funds. It is also important that research is led by leaders who dare say ‘follow the trail’, when someone thinks they may have found something. It is important that the curious researcher develop his skills as a mediator, not only in heavy journals, but also toward the excited, curious student. I understand that it becomes a little frustrating for the Socialist Left not to have the big plan-economic grips, and that they also do not have much faith in the private sector's ability to participate in the great virtues of this research message. No, it's actually like there's going to be a fight in every government budget in terms of public spending. There the truth will appear every year. I remember again – after a number of issues from the Socialist Left – that they have so little faith that they have to deal with it if they get into government, that it is important to get decisions in this room that they can rely on – when they don't think they can do the job in their own rooms. Finally, I would like to mention the aid scheme in relation to gifts for research, which I believe is not just a good grip for research purely in terms of research policy, but it is also an important democratic approach. It is important that more and less bureaucratic money is in place in the system, and research support can be as important and useful for individuals as sponsoring cultural or sporting activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1561	The Government’s Research Communication expresses the willingness to exploit opportunities and meet future challenges for Norwegian research. The message's starting point is that research is a good thing in itself, but also that increased investment in research is necessary to meet future opportunities and challenges facing society. It is widely well received. The Committee’s recommendation suggests that the notification is also widely endorsed by the Stortinget. It promises well for the further follow-up. I would like to thank the Committee for the extensive and demanding work that has been done. The notification has high ambitions for Norwegian research. And there's a reason for that. We've worked up a good starting point. This is optimism and innovation in Norwegian research. Quality is on the rise and public resources have increased significantly in the last five years. The 1999 Research Communication has in many ways contributed to a time gap in Norwegian research. But we also have challenges. Fascinations show that quality varies, that professional and strategic management is lacking, that the environment is fragmented, and that the availability of free resources is too low. Research and research-based activities are becoming increasingly international. Other countries also have high ambitions for their research. Therefore, our ambitions and priorities cannot be unaffected by what is happening outside the borders of the country, but must be set up to seize the increased opportunities offered by internationalisation and to take the moral responsibility we have for the global community. The Government proposes internationalisation, basic research and research-based innovation and innovation as horizontal priorities. Current thematic efforts are largely continued through the areas of energy and environment, sea, food and health. We define ICT, biotechnology and nanotechnologies as priority areas of technology, and we pay particular attention to strengthening real-time research. These priorities combine consideration of breadth, continuity, national needs and priority, and enable Norwegian research to take an active part in international research cooperation. Priorities shall be realised through growth and not through re-prioritisation. Humanities and non-directly prioritised areas will therefore grow resources. The Communication also contains concrete measures to strengthen humanistic research, in addition to the fact that humanistic and socio-scientific research will be absolutely necessary to realise the priorities set out in the Communication. Furthermore, quality shall be stimulated and rewarded independently of subject areas. It is gratifying that the majority of the Committee supports both the growth target and the mechanism of growth. I note that the Committee asks the Government to present a stepping-up plan for public efforts. This will be followed up by the government in the 2006 state budget. Norway has a particular need to increase research efforts in business. The communication responds by proposing priorities that address business needs and opportunities, and it indicates a significant step forward in action that we know will work. However, it does not mean that all growth should go to nutrient research. Firstly, research has more purposes than contributing to increased value creation. Secondly, industry is served by good, curiosity-driven basic research and education at universities and colleges. Therefore, increased investment in basic research is not contrary to increased industrial relevance, but rather a prerequisite for a more value-creating business. An important part of growth will therefore be channelled to universities and colleges, and so-called free resources will be strengthened. This is in addition to the 1470 million. a real growth of 24 pst from 2001 to 2005. In addition to the growth of resources, the Communication provides for a number of measures to strengthen research at universities and higher education institutions. Continued strengthening of professional management is necessary, as are better-organised and more predictable career paths. I note with satisfaction that a majority of the Committee endorses the establishment of a new temporary intermediate on the road to permanent addition as a professor. This is requested by the trade unions and has been joined by the organisations. At the same time, I would like to stress that one should not increase the overall level of temporary employment in the sector but, on the contrary, contribute to a reduction in the particular use of short and unforeseeable exposures and projects. I note and share the Committee's assessment of the need for individual grants and have already for some time agreed to meet with the Action Group on Youth and Promise? to discuss how best to meet this need. I note that the Committee is in favour of extending the proposed scheme for private donations with several recipient institutions. The Government will develop concrete guidelines for the scheme in line with this. The Research Communication provides a basis for good conditions and sets high targets for Norwegian research in the years to come. But that's not enough in itself. If we are to achieve the goal of raising Norway to a leading research nation, a common will is required from authorities, research environments, business and society for the rest. I dare to predict that today's grand process will show that there is a common will at political level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1590	I pointed out in my main post that there is already a large amount of temporary employment in the university and higher education sectors. To put it a little simple: one should be a good adult to get a firm position. The government then proposes further expansions both in general — the debate we had last week or the week before — and also in this area, and they undermine the employment protection of employees. It's a development that the Government wants, and that the Workers' Party is opposed to. But does the Research Council believe that job uncertainty is pre-research and an important consideration for equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1595	In the preparation of this message, I conducted a lot of meetings with a lot of researchers to ask for advice and input to the research report. My main impression was that there was a lot of optimism in Research Norway, and that the main message was: Keep up as you suggest – more of the good, so to speak. But in two areas I got quite clear feedback. One was a lack of small resources. This may sound strange, because there has been a huge increase in the resources of the institutions. But we have taken note of that, and we have made proposals. The second was a call for better and more predictable career paths. Then there was a very general feedback that you are not against temporaryity, but you want a certain predictability in the temporaryity, and that it is of a certain duration. What we have proposed here means assessing the position of professors. Institutions may choose for themselves whether to disclose such a position. We believe that it will facilitate the recruitment of research more than we see many young researchers today, where there are very short-term projects and commitments that they are engaged in, without any prospect of a firm position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1602	We can be clear in the criticism. We also want to be clear in the rose, and the Progress Party gives the Council of State a good character for a good message. But I have a question, and it's not just a $100,000 question, but a twenty-five billion question. That's how the government puts a lot of eggs in that 2 pst curve. from business. Business answers quite in cash, at least some of the representatives who respond quite in cash, that they don't have that money. There is not enough money in the business community to finance the research effort that the Government puts up. It is said in the last communication that came from the research director of one of the major Norwegian locomotive companies. And if you think about it a little bit, that's the formidable number we're talking about. If this increase up to 2 pst. for the private sector, shall be based on 5 pst. Of the turnover, we're talking about 500 billion kroner on the market to get that promise. What's the idea behind it, and what's the mechanism that makes this really work?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1609	A better balance between private investment in research and public investment in research in Norway is important because we need a more knowledge-based business and because it is important for democracy and a liberal balance of power. We also believe that this is possible and that we are in a good development. In 1997, 28 pst went. of enterprise innovation costs for research and development. In 2001, 54 pst went. of the costs of innovation for research and development. The Research Council has conducted a survey. There are a lot of businesses, a lot of companies, that think this is possible and realistic, and half of the companies that are researching are saying that they are going to research more in the years to come. Looking at Denmark, which is a country that is easier to compare with than Finland, because it is more similar to ours, we see that they have had such a development in business research over the same period of time as we want now. We believe that through this Communication, we have responded to the needs of business regarding measures to be incentives and incentives for business, whether research-related innovation centres, founders' scholarships, Centres of Expertise or other things, and that it can provide the necessary boost for business itself to be able to make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1614	The Research Communication suggests an increase in ambitions relative to GDP, to 3 pst. from today's 1,7 p.m., a staggering five-year increase. And this is good, these are good goals and important goals that SV supports. But I am very concerned that we should not go into the same trap as we did in 2000 when we dealt with the previous research report, by setting targets that were not followed up. I expect the Council of State to now have everything going on in the budgetary process for the 2006 budget. The size says now that we want the Council of State to come up with a plan for the escalation, and I will then challenge the Council of State to say something about when this plan can come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1619	Of course, I cannot say anything about the budget for 2006, but, as I said in my statement, we will of course follow up on the Storting's wish that we should present an escalating plan for the 2006 budget. But I would like to reject the fact that you went into a trap at the previous research report. It became a real time gap. And just to illustrate how difficult this is: in the first escalation plan that was made after that announcement, it was assumed that it was necessary for the public to invest NOK 2 billion more in research. What has actually happened since the previous research report, is that it has invested SEK 4.6 billion more, and NOK 3 billion more just during the Bondevik II government. Under the Bondevik II government, the current government, there has been a real growth of 17 pst, to the UH sector 24 pst. Far beyond what was thought and supposed that the public would contribute, we have contributed, and yet we have not achieved the goal. This shows that it's quite difficult. I want to add that if we reach the goal of 1 pst. of GDP in Norway, that means that we are going to have the world's highest public research effort, because this is not the GDP of mainland Norway, that's our total GDP. That means that we have a very high GDP, and that it will also be a very high public research effort if we achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1628	In meeting with the Swedish Research Association, we saw an overview of those employed in the university and higher education sectors in recent years, and it turned out that there were many people employed in purely educational positions. Does the Council of State think this is a negative development? So we're talking about research-based education as an important principle. That's the one. The second was what I mentioned in my post, about public tenders and that this kind of hit the research. There was a lot of money to search. Can the State Council say if there are any plans to raise the tender limit to 400000–500000 kroner?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1635	As far as the last point is concerned, it's what the representative of the Skjälaa suggested in his statement, another responsible state council, to which I almost leave the question. But I can say that, in addition to what the Ministry of Research is responsible for, measures are being taken to do this with application procedures and bureaucracy, etc. less burdensome. Nevertheless, I would like to add that it is clear that there is very little bureaucracy in Norway in relation to what it does, for example. is in the EU system, with which Norwegian researchers are also burdened. There it is very bureaucratic. As far as education and research are concerned, we agree that what we rely on in our academic institutions is research-based education. I fully agree with the Committee that there is a need for time for research and that there is a need for a coherent time. But I have to remind you that in the context of the quality reform and reform of higher education, we have now delegated a great deal of responsibility to the institutions, strategic, professional, administrative, organisational, etc., in order to manage the kind of things that were previously detailed by the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1643	When the Council of State claims that she is receiving signals from the institutions and their employees that she is going to continue as she claims in relation to temporary employment, I have to say that we cannot have met the same organisations, because they were then, of course, almost united against all the changes and extensions that occurred in the Law of Higher Education. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Today, we have a biotechnology legislation that excludes Norwegian research from efforts in key areas, in order to make use of the medical advances that biotechnology and genetic engineering provide and where we are most likely to use the results of such research at international level. Does the Council of Research consider today's legislation to be correct and sensible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1650	First, a little misunderstanding. When the researchers said to me, 'Keep forward as you suggest,' that was generally the case with research policy. As far as temporaryity is concerned, however, I believe that the proposal that we have promoted about intermediateism, with the right to be judged as a professor, has been so strongly endorsed because even those who should share the view that temporaryity is very unfortunate, will see this as a progress, because it is a goal that is more permanent and firm, and because it has a longer horizon than many of the short projects and commitments that young researchers are currently on. As far as the second question is concerned, the government's policy is based on the Sem Declaration, where, as a government, we are very concerned with privacy, human dignity and personal integrity. The representative knows that the Government has promoted a number of issues regarding biotechnology, research on fertilised eggs, the Biotechnology Act, the Biobanks Act, etc. However, it is also known that a sample has been working, that it is now being consulted, and that the Government will also make proposals on the overall regulation of the Biotechnology Act and the Biobank Act in the field of medical research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1662	Norway is one of the world's best nations, if not the best, on salmon farming. Norway is also one of the world’s best nations in terms of oil and gas technology. How did we get there? Well, know it's been an intensive research. Both these industries and administrations have understood the importance of research in order to improve technology and quality and to develop industries further and constantly be at the forefront. Go to the farming industry, an industry that in its infancy was characterized by too much use of drugs, the feed contaminated the seabed and the environment, and it was an industry that maybe didn't have the best reputation. Today, there is an industry characterised by the minimal use of drugs, which rarely pollutes the environment, and which delivers very high-quality products. But at the same time, there is an industry that is not based on the laurels, they know that there are still challenges that can be solved by more research. Breeding malformations may still occur in the salmon and it is being studied by veterinarians and others. New species are being researched like cod and halibut, which are just two of them. It will take too much of my time to mention all the institutes, universities and colleges involved in marine research and development, but we find them scattered from Alta in the north to Bærum, Skedsmo and Ås in the eastern region. St.meld. No 19 for 2004-2005, Marin Enterprise Development — The blue field, has a comprehensive description of the research efforts made in the marine industries. This is an important investment for Norway. The oil and gas sectors are equally exciting. On Tuesday I was in St. Petersburg at the major conference of the St. Petersburg Economic Forum. One of the posts I heard was held by the Chairman of the Board of Directors in Gazprom, the big Russian gas company – his name was Aleksei Miller. He talked about the opportunities that exist for the development of the north, and then he drew Statoil and Hydro as possible partners, precisely because these are companies that have been involved in technological development and have a broad technological competence and experience from oil and gas extraction in the areas of the north. These are two companies that have also invested a lot in research and development, and are therefore competitive. The main message ‘Completing research’ highlights research and development as very important for innovation and innovation for Norwegian industry and the public sector. The two industries I referred to are good enough examples of this. A challenge is to link university and research environments closer to business. Still, it is not good enough to interact in some areas. In addition, we should also focus on research, as in industrial policy, in areas where we have natural or other special advantages, and the areas to meet our national and specific needs. It also mentions the adopted nationwide seed schemes to be established in university cities. There must be some misunderstanding with regard to the comments made by the Centre Party on these. These seed schemes are not yet in place, and what the Centre claims that it may seem difficult to achieve with projects outside university cities must be due to a misunderstanding, as no experience of such funds is yet available. I believe that it is entirely up to the environment to manage the cereal regimes. They have a task of disseminating knowledge of the possibilities, when they are established. But then it should also be said that one of the purposes of the schemes was to stimulate universities and colleges, together with industry, to use these schemes more than they do today. In the case of Ås and UMB, they will be able to apply for funds from the Fund in Oslo, when it is established, in line with other universities and colleges in the Eastern region. It is not that it is the University of Oslo that has been allocated the fund, but it is to be localized to Oslo. It is as well known the short distance between Oslo and Ås, and the good projects in Ås that may be developed in cooperation with the business community, will have as good chances as any good projects under the direction of the University of Oslo and the business community. So the comment from the Center Party must be based on a misunderstanding of the arrangement. Finally, research doesn't necessarily produce results tomorrow, you have to have patience and spend time before it's profitable. It is also important to take care of the long-term basic research in this image, including for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1695	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1698	Some have said that a society that has more politicians and lawyers than engineers is on its way to the abyss. Now I'm not going to spend time deepening or interpreting this statement, but if we think about it, it might have something to do with it. We're at full speed into a time marked by the weightless economy. Knowledge and technology have become the big commodity, and the intellectual handbag between parts of the world and countries continues to grow in strength. The only way to ensure Norway’s position in international competition and global cooperation is to ensure that Norwegian business and academia have something to contribute. This is why the Government has presented a research report that prioritises, among other things. innovation, technology and real science. Although Norway exports a lot of raw materials, the weightless economy is important to us. Research and development shall contribute to the visibility of new technologies and thereby ensure greater values both within existing businesses and not least in new areas. The Research Communication is a strategic document for all research in Norway, and the principle that research communities compete for research funding should contribute to the realisation of the best environments and projects. In that context, I want to focus on a relationship I believe Norway has an improvement potential on. In the opinion, a majority of the committee pointed out that although 10 pst. of the population of Norway lives in North Norway, stands for only 5 pst. of the research. I am not dependent on the allocation of research funds according to geographical criteria. But there's something that bothers me with these numbers. If they are further degraded, there is reason to believe that Troms County has a high level of research activity, while activity in Northern and Finnmark is likely to be significantly lower. In particular, industry's research efforts are small in the national sphere. I am therefore pleased with the clarification made in the position on research in North Norway. But there is reason for increasing optimism about future research activity in the country. The petroleum industry is growing in North Norway, and I am sure that the increased petroleum activity in the north will also be reflected in research activity. Then it is extra reassuring that the 19th round in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea was announced by the Government today. A majority of the Committee has also referred to Sami research in particular. Although Sami research accounts for a small proportion of our total research effort, it is important that it be given space. In particular, I think it is important to get knowledge about how, among other things. climate change can affect traditional Sami industries. I also believe that research and development of and in Sami languages must have the necessary place within the total Norwegian research effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1715	The connection to the research report has been large and almost unanimous. Rarely has a big message been met as positively as this one. This shows that the Council of State has done a very good job. I would like to be allowed to stay at some points that may not have been so much in the discussion. The Communication discusses in point 9.1.3, entitled ‘Changes in university and higher education structures’, the new situation that has arisen since the opening in 2000 of State higher education institutions as universities, if certain criteria are met. As you know, the Stavanger University has fulfilled the Stortingens criteria set, and has thus become the University of Stavanger from 1 January this year. The University of Agder will probably soon follow. After 2000, the size has been presented with a number of legislative proposals and communications that discuss the professional rights of new universities in relation to the rights of the «old» universities. The research report, which we are discussing today, argues for a typology of universities. Some of them, namely the four oldest, must be research universities. This can be understood so that it will not be the new ones. In previous treatments, the Stortinget has been clear that new universities should not be copies of the four broad universities. This does not prevent new universities from also having, and must have, a research responsibility. The intention of the majority has been and is that new and old universities should not be discriminated against. A unanimous committee therefore once again stresses the Storting's view in today's setting when the Committee on page 18 says: ‘The Committee will stress that the Law on Higher Education and the Storting’s intentions do not include any division of new and older universities into different categories.’ The Committee's determination here is that we have the same intention now as in 2002 and in the treatment of the Law on Higher Education earlier this year: Universities do not belong to different categories. They shall compete on equal formal and professional terms, and that is the quality of what they deliver, which shall be decisive, not a prior breakdown in, for example. research universities and others. It is important that this is clearly fixed in the setting. The Communication – page 142 – also states that it is now the accreditation system and quality assessments that will largely determine developments in the university and higher education sectors. Quality and competition between institutions will increasingly determine the pattern of institutions. It's completely in line with what has been and still is Stortin-get's intention: quality, not categorisation and typology. It is expressed as follows in the setting: ‘The Committee has taken note of the notification’s finding that the accreditation system and professional quality assessments will increasingly determine the development of the institutional pattern of higher education and research. This is in line with Storting’s intentions.’ This gives institutions with quality and quality research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1740	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1756	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups and to each of the independent representatives. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1763	It is late in the evening, but still some words about this – a small document, but a big one. In Document No: 8:95. The proposers Kristin Halvorsen, Rolf Rekvam and Lena Jensen from SV promote proposals for the introduction of school meals in primary school. The proposal was supported on 24 May. This means that once the Committee has delivered an opinion on Monday 13 June, it has examined the matter expeditiously. The Committee is divided into views. A majority of the committee, the representatives of the parties Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as well as the two representatives Evje and Simonsen, reject both proposals and issues and will attach the document to the minutes. The majority will probably explain this view itself. A minority in the Committee, representing a majority of the Grand Duchy, has a different view. The minority in the Committee, consisting of representatives from the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, will set up a school meal scheme in Norwegian school. This is why this issue is important — it involves the start of the road to a school meal system in primary school. On behalf of those parties, I take up proposal No. 1 in the settings. The Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, which all want a school meal system in place, is now giving the Government a political mission. Now that the matter has been promoted so quickly through the Committee, it means that these parties use their political majority in the Grand Duchy to give the Government a political mission. A school meal system is now to be explored, and it will be done by the end of spring 2006. This matter is important, and it is a big matter. It requires thorough investigation and thorough preparation. I have noted the Council's reply to the Committee dated 8 June, with comments on the proposal being based on, and which, in addition to information on the issue, also shows an open and positive attitude to the start of the work requested by the majority. That's good. It is much more positive than the position expressed in the comments of the Government Parties in the Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The majority will regret the way this case has been dealt with. The matter has been put through within the Committee in a very short time with little opportunity for real discussion and evaluation. The majority believe that a case that gives such large financial outlays should have been dealt with in a more thorough way." I think it is necessary and necessary with such a use of words. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to repeat that once the Government has carried out its mission in a thorough manner, the Education Committee will deal with the matter thoroughly. Both Sweden and Finland have long traditions and good experience in providing school meals to students. The aim of the school meal in these countries has been to provide students with the recommended nutrition and energy, but also to help students maintain their concentration and thus work capacity while they are at school. In addition, the school meal has a social dimension, as it facilitates the gathering around common meals, which further provides a basis for shared experiences by linking the learning work in school to the food served. Together, this forms a Community framework that embraces both the preparation of the food, the meal itself and the cleaning up. For the Progress Party, student participation is an important prerequisite for a school meal system. The school meal collection provides an opportunity to enhance the coherence between students and thereby provide a better school environment, which also provides positive benefits for the learning environment associated with ordinary education. As far as I have been able to register, there is a broad and strong rise in school meal arrangements in Sweden and Finland among students, parents, teachers, school owners, authorities and politicians. I have not seen that parents in Sweden and Finland feel disqualified and neglected, and that the public and/or school take on the role of the employer when students over 50 years have served a meal at school. The assessment of the Progress Party is that parents will also support such a scheme in Norway. It is estimated that parents in Norway will pay attention to the fact that a school meal scheme provides better security for one’s own children to actually eat a good and nutritious meal during a long school day, which has become and will be longer. The assessment of the Progress Party is also that Norwegian parents see great benefits from such a scheme. Recent surveys confirm a rather overwhelming connection from parents and students. We're putting emphasis on local customization on our side. We want a model, as we know, with parent numbers in public schools. It facilitates strong parental management. Within today’s school governance model, we assume that cooperation with parents and parental representatives will also take place with regard to school meals. That's an important assumption. Finally, the government has had time for the mission in the spring of 2006. I want to make it clear that, for our part, we don't think it's necessary to spend that long. So we're going to write June 16th. There's six months left. You don't have to travel far. You can travel to Sweden and get some useful information. You can actually go to Finland too. You don't actually have to travel. If you look at what it actually costs in Sweden, it's pretty fresh numbers to pick up. The hot meal in Sweden costs approx. 3 300 SEK per year in 2005-krona. With 620,000 students – if that's the right number – we're talking about approximately. $2 billion for a hot meal. Then we'll see when the investigation comes, whether it's the hot meal we're going to have or not. The final point is that there is a very liberal time if we are to spend time until the end of spring 2006. We think there can be a good investigation work in a number of shorter periods, which allows the Stortinget to deal with this early in the spring of 2006, and so that we can either start with a phase-in for start-up or we can start with trial schemes. Then, of course, I am talking about the beginning of the school year in 2006, which starts in August, and concerns the school year 2006/2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1807	Would the representative, Mr Sortevik, make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1810	Yes, I took up the proposal, but I can repeat that I take up proposal No. 1 on behalf of the parties which are in a minority in the Committee but which, hopefully, become a majority in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1815	That's good, then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1818	It is rare that I have agreed with the representative of Sortevik in these four years that I was now. That was an excellent post! The Labour Party today is voting for an investigation into the relationship with school food. On the other hand, we do not propose, as the Government does, among other things. have claimed that we should immediately introduce a free school meal. We know that a free school food system costs, but we don't know how much. We know that a school food system is likely to require practical organization, but we do not know to what extent. Just for these simple reasons, we think it is right to get an investigation into the matter before we decide what kind of solution is best for the school and for the students. We want a school meal in some form. The Labour Party has programmed that we want a system of fruit and vegetables for all children in primary school. I think it is a pity that the government does not support us in this matter. In addition, we know that a number of good test projects are being carried out with school meals in many schools around our country. We're positive for these projects, and we're therefore seeing that they also have to continue. The working party believes that there is a link between nutrition and learning. We've been a proponent of an extended school day. With several hours, there won't be any better learning if the students don't have the right assumptions to learn. That is exactly why I think it is very regrettable that a few days ago, Minister of State Erna Solberg was able to claim that the decision to investigate a school meal — an investigation — could threaten the improvement work of the Norwegian school. First of all, it is a pity that the municipal minister has not come to understand that there is a broad political consensus on important measures to improve our school: more hours, empowerment among teachers, new teaching materials, etc. These are actions for which the Workers' Party fully supports. It is also regrettable that the Right Party leader does not see that there is a connection between it and a putter in your stomach, and that one can fit in your head. It is also a pity that the municipal minister has obviously not read the proposal from the SV, the centre party, the Progress Party and the Labour Party before this criticism comes. Government parties today refuse to study a school meal scheme in primary school with a view to a gradual introduction. At the same time, the Government says that it will set up, on its own initiative, a working group to produce up-to-date knowledge of school meals. There are many people who haven't quite understood the logic of this. I'm glad the opposition has taken hold. I am pleased that the opposition has high ambitions for the Norwegian school, and that it has the ability and the will to think in the long term. I think that's absolutely crucial to making our school better. The handling of the case by the government parties appears strange. I believe that you can also say about the criticism you have seen both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Municipal Affairs. I'm addressing proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1839	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1842	This is a case which has been carried through in the committee in record speed without the requested detailed procedure. I want this on behalf of the Right Condemnation. Although the conclusions of the case are likely to be a somewhat diluted investigation mission to the Government, the starting point was Document No. 8:95 for 2004-2005 that the Government should be required to promote a case to ensure the implementation of school meals in primary school. – In other words, not an investigation case, but an order to promote a case with a given conclusion. I am pleased that the matter has been reduced to an investigative task through the committee's proceedings. This means that there will be time for the necessary investigations in relation to funding, practical arrangements, the type of food and all the other aspects which the proposers have obviously not considered very thoroughly. The examination of the Committee shows that SV has not received a majority in favour of its proposal. The minority of the Committee, but probably the majority of the Grand Duchy, does not support the Government's promotion of a case. A system needs to be investigated. The SV's proposal that the matter be dealt with as a matter of ensuring the implementation of school meals is not followed up in the decision. A school meal system shall be investigated in primary school with a view to gradual introduction. No decision shall be taken on the practical implementation, financing, timing or type of food. It must be clear that the majority provides a number of spinner diets in its proposal for a decision than that originally contained in the document. It has therefore been surprising that the comments in the media both from individual representatives, from those behind the proposal, and the comments from the media themselves, conclude that SV has been fully implemented. Yes, somewhere it was even established that there was now a majority for free school meals from the autumn of 2006. Whether this conclusion comes from a lack of literacy or reading understanding is difficult to say. It is at least not correct in relation to the facts of the case, so much has to be established. The right, together with a majority of the Committee, proposes that the document be annexed to the minutes. For the Right, it is important to establish that parents have an obvious responsibility and authority to raise their own children, including ensuring that children acquire good eating habits. This is a responsibility that most parents carry out in an excellent way and in no way want to be deprived. It is a strong underestimation of thousands of Norwegian parents to claim that this is a task that they do not have, and that the public must therefore take over this task. Because it has to be this thought that's behind it. This doesn't power the parents, so the school has to take over. The facts are that the vast majority of parents make sure that their own children have healthy and nutritious food at school. Studies show that even in high school, more than half of the students have a daily lunch package — each day in fact. It shows that Norwegian parents take their task seriously and are aware of their responsibilities. To the right, there is a clear limit between the parents' obvious responsibility to make sure that children acquire good eating habits, and that children carry food at school, and the school's task of providing information and knowledge on proper diet, and of facilitating the eating of food within a good framework. It's done by making sure that the food break gets a reasonable length, and that there'll be peace around the meal. This can be done with simple, organisational grips. In most places, this is done in a good way. Of course, the right agrees that eating healthy and nutritious food during school days is important for children’s ability to concentrate and to work. This, in our opinion, can best be done by the parents making sure that the children have food and that the school provides a reasonable organisation of the lunch break. This should not be more difficult. The schemes with milk and with fruit and green, which many schools have, are positive. In these schemes, the parents pay for an ordered volume. There are sensible and good arrangements that work well, and where students and parents decide for themselves their own participation. The fact that some schools through student companies organise the sale of food to students is also positive. But there's a big difference between these arrangements and a free school meal for everyone, paid by the public. The costs of the schemes are uncertain, but it is certain that the costs, depending on the size, organisation and type of food, will be higher than DKK 2.5 billion, as the proposers estimate in the document. I agree with what was said in the editorial in the Newspaper yesterday. It said: ‘School would be even better if 2.5 billion had been used for teachers and educational material.’ That is certainly a reasonable conclusion. The right reference is to letters from the Council of State dated 8 June, notifying that a working group will be set up to increase and update the knowledge base on different aspects of school meals and costs associated with such measures, and that this will form the basis for the Government’s further handling of the matter. This feedback from the Council of State, which has also been said by the Stortinge, should have led the Committee to agree that the matter should be annexed to the Protocol instead of the adoption by the Stortinge to adopt a diluted proposal which gives greater expectations than the wording of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1876	For SV, the first priority is to create a knowledge school for our children. We have to create a school where every student is seen and gets the adapted training they need. We need a school where you get more and more highly qualified and up-to-date teachers — a school where the technical equipment is modern and the libraries are full of books. School buildings need to be upgraded, so that our children don't get hurt in their heads until they get to lunch. We're going to create a demanding knowledge school with the best possibilities for development for individuals. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the Storting decides today to introduce school food. Finally, the Stortinget notes that there is a link between learning, nutrition and quality in school, as shown by all experience from different projects. Research also shows this, and academic bodies such as the Children’s Ombudsman, the Nutrition Council and nutritionists support us in this – and the super chef Jamie supports it by saying that school food is important. By the end of spring 2006, the government will present an inquiry into the gradual introduction of school food. It is important to improve the quality of school in many areas — one does not exclude the other. It is not surprising that the Right does not support our proposal. The right has promised tax relief of NOK 23 billion in the next period. Policies are priorities. SV prioritizes differently. We give priority to the schoolchildren. We're prioritizing a promise of knowledge in which it's actually content. There's a right-wing bill of treasure, we promise school food. Hunger students struggle to keep up with the hours. As blood sugar approaches bon, pedagogy is simply short. Sweden and Finland have long traditions and good experience in providing school meals to students. There's no doubt that school food gives quality in school. School meals also have an important social dimension, as they facilitate the gathering around common meals, which further provide the basis for common experiences by linking educational work in school to the food served — including both the preparation of the food, the meal itself and the cleaning up after the meal. This reinforces cohesion, which in turn gives a positive advantage to the learning environment. SV will today stress that the school food to be served at school should be healthy, good and nutritious food, and contain both fruit and green. School is a natural and important platform for learning children and young people good eating habits. We know that many children don't eat properly. They don't bring their food package, and bad food habits are a challenge we have to address. In the school system that comes, there must be ample room for local challenges and the organisation of meals. The assessment of whether to serve hot or cold food, the time of day, by whom, and where to prepare meals, must be up to the individual municipality and school to decide for themselves. It is important for SV to stress today that school food needs to be fully financed by the state and not burdening tight municipal budgets. Today, the population is taking an important step towards creating a better school for our children. I know that introducing school food is a very important and proper investment that will lead to a quality improvement of school. I look forward to the Government presenting a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible, and by the end of 2006 at the latest, on how to introduce school meals in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1897	Policies are priorities. One year ago, the Stortinget adopted a new school reform for the whole of basic education to start in 2006. We then chose to give priority to empowering teachers in the billions class. New curricula are to be introduced, accompanied by new textbooks, and the day of school is to be extended. There is a power roof for School-Norway to be noticed in the next few years, and the Christian People's Party is very pleased with this. Today, the opposition parties in School-Norway promise a new reform that will require at least as many billions as the Knowledge Lift. Today's Business Life is called "Food Package Bread". They describe the total lack of ability of the opposition to do the most important thing first. Most Norwegian students have good eating habits and a normal, healthy diet. But it doesn't apply to all of them. Is there any reason, however, for the state to spend billions of dollars for all children to be paid school food? Where does the boundary between school and home responsibilities go? The Christian People's Party believes that it is the responsibility of parents to provide food for their children, but it is the responsibility of the schools to provide a good framework around the school meal. In addition, fruit and vegetables and milk and local varieties of canteen should be available, such as: student establishments. That is why we are pleased that more measures are being taken today. For example, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health launched last year’s ‘Physical activity and meals in school’ project, the aim of which is to facilitate more daily physical activity and a good framework for meals in school. School owners and schools have the opportunity to launch and test different models in cooperation with parents and local organisations today. Students shall play an active role both in the development and implementation of local projects. For the current school year, 200 schools received funding, and for the next school year more than 500 schools have applied for a total of about 500. Twenty million. kr. There are quite a number of projects on the theme of school food. In St.meld. 16 for 2002–03 on public health policy, a basis for promoting physical activity and a good diet in the population, including school as the arena. This was followed up in the budgets, including in particular: strengthening of the scheme of subscriptions for fruit and vegetables at school. School fruit is called. There is cooperation between the Social and Health Directorate and the Information Office on Fruit and Vegetables. The scheme is currently nationwide and very successful. 1 100 schools and 65,000 students participate. It's $2.50 a day. the day of parental leave, and the public subsidy is 1 DKK. For 50 kroner per year. the students are guaranteed fruit every school day. Just fruit and vegetables are not good enough for the diet of children and young people. Other measures that contribute to the availability of healthy food are different models of canteen operations. I've seen several good examples of student-driven canteens. Time is an important aspect in this context. It is the responsibility of the schools to facilitate both sufficient time and tranquillity around meals. That's when supervision is important. It almost sounds as if there is no meal at all today in school. It is, and they create social arenas. Studies show that most parents actually think it's all right to lubricate the food package. A food package MMI study shows that 96 pst. of the pupils at the nursery have a daily lunch package, while there are 80 pst. at the level of youth. But they also state that there are many people who throw the food package and bully at balls and school bread instead. I ask myself, how do they get to this? It must be the school's responsibility to set limits on pupils' access to such things. I know from my own experience that it is possible to set limits through the school regulations. Here, parents must be challenged to cooperate with the school to create good eating habits for children and young people. Today, when I listen to representatives from both the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and SV, people expect free food. The rapporteur's statement states that it will even be phased in in the autumn of 2006. The Labour Party representative said that it was an excellent post we heard from the case rapporteur, and agreed completely. Then the rapporteur spoke about NOK 2 billion. So there are expectations here. We've always known that there's a connection between nutrition and learning. We have confidence that the parents also understand this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1915	I would like to commend the Council of State for the answer she gave to the committee when she received our document. I think it's neat. I have also read an article in the VG where she comments the same, and where the Council of State says that we still lack some knowledge about the pupils' eating habits in school. This is important before we impose new schemes on students. It can give us more knowledge of what students eat at school, and what needs students, home and school actually have. These include: This is what we want to find out with this proposal that is going to be adopted here in the Grand Duchy today. I think the Council of State has responded positively to this – clean and orderly. And I have to say, I'm very surprised at other representatives from the Right Party, who say that this is to relieve parents of problems. And when one hears the representative Scarbøvik say that this with a food package, the parents can arrange the sea – yes, then they could probably also arrange apples and carrots. When we want to find out about this with a view to introducing a school meal, it's because we believe and believe that this is something that will serve the children, we think it will serve the learning environment, etc. I don't understand the enormous resistance that the government parties have shown, and that they have held out here in the debate today, while I feel that the Council of State is closely related to it, she says she needs more knowledge, etc. to see the needs of both pupils, home and school in this area. Otherwise I would remind her that earlier in this period we have had a proposal on fruit and vegetables. We believe that it is a very good system, and want to make it available to all students. But to make this a matter where one of the parents is doing a problem, I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1930	This is the third time today that I have to say only dryly that SV has little faith in their own government participation, so they have to make sure that all policies are adopted before they possibly end up in government, in fear of not having any impact on the policy. We're in government, and feel no need to instruct the government to investigate things, and it probably understands everyone. The left's position is that we want to introduce such a system in the next period, but we have the most faith in a local adaptation based on today's voluntary arrangements, which is also a local adaptation that suggests that not everyone necessarily chooses the same solution. I think, for example, that the test schemes we had in Oslo when I was a city councillor – lunch instead of lunch – are considerably more intelligent. What I want to comment most on in this matter, and which I actually think is pretty scary, is how populist parties can manage to destroy major reforms with their inferior craftsmanship. That's really what's bothering me most in this case. The only sentence of the case rapporteur that was well descriptive of the matter was the beginning, where he defined the matter as a small document, but a big one. Politics is about craftsmanship, craftsmanship to get something, craftsmanship to get a majority for one thing, but also to relate to reality. And the expressive speed of this is what we're talking about, where we also have a case rapporteur who will have recorded in committee that he doesn't want to hear the opinion of the Council of State, it's very special, especially when we see that his comrades in the matter seemed to the Council of State to be quite good and informative. I feel quite comfortable with the Council's response, and I also think that the Council's response was a considerable strength in relation to the small document in a big matter. And raising people's expectations and saying that this will happen from the autumn of 2006, it's not just to lie to the population, it's also not to have any idea of the practical consequences. Who's going to make this food, teachers ask me. Are we going to start doing that? And are we going to build almost 200 large kitchens in Oslo – if that's what you're going to put on, according to Blackevik's description? Then the other parts can just round, but it's Black Week that sets the standard for how large this should be, the scale and the velocity. I think I see that the Food Agency should accept all of this. And what competence can you build up? Should you have competence in each school so that this can be done well? I see that people have been smeared by Jamie Oliver's big grip on the TV kitchen. But his grip was getting competence into the kitchens that are already there. It is an irrevocable fact that in Sweden – where they get a hot meal in the middle of the day – there are just as few who eat food during the day as in Norway. Then it must mean that there is something the Swedes are doing wrong. And if we're going to spend as many billions in investments as we're talking about here, then we have to make sure we don't make the mistakes that others make. But Blackevik thinks it's an incredible misuse of time for the Council of State to collect such kind of information. So I think there's a pretty big mistake in this room about what you expect from us that in the next period has a program that commits us to this. If you can't honestly talk to the people about what we can actually do, you shouldn't have any goals about what this can contribute to, can't you see that this can happen a little different from the municipality to the municipality? You can actually stand on Dagsrevyen and tell people that from 2006, you can count on all the schools in Norway having a large kitchen with qualified staff who are ready to put the hot dish on the table. I think that those who have joined Sortevik in this matter should be a little anxious about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1949	A few years ago, an American journalist visited the socialist paradise called the People's Republic of Korea. When he got home, he wrote a strongly ironizing article that praised the People's Republic and its great leader Kim Il Sung, who took care of his subjects in such a way that they did not think for themselves. Yes, even the shoes they were going to use were determined by the great leader, so that most people wouldn't be bothered with making such a difficult decision, the journalist wrote with ironic enthusiasm. And because irony can sometimes be difficult to understand, his article led to enthusiasm in the People's Republic, and to the fact that the then Embassy in Oslo had it translated into Norwegian and sent it out to all Norwegian newspapers. I don't know why, but I came to think of this little story when I heard that the Progress Party would let Dad State pay and Mom City decides which food our kids are going to eat. This is an excellent proposal, because, of course, parents must avoid making such a difficult decision. Our children are too important to belong to their parents alone. They really belong to the state. Of course, what they eat in the mornings needs to be determined by the nutritionists, by politicians, public staff teachers, socionomists and food psychologists who can ensure that they get healthy and good and nutritious food, in cooperation, of course, with local historians who can ensure that food is in line with the best in Norwegian food traditions, with ‘large room for local design and organisation’, which is so excellently formulated in the position of the minority in the Committee. If we leave this to the parents, the kids get fatter than Jan Simonsen before they're 15 years old, and we can't risk it. The good thing about the proposal is that it also promotes equality. It provides the basis for common experiences when all students put the same food in their mouths at the same time — dot equal students, in the same beautiful school uniforms, that put the sausages in their mouths on command, not to talk about the crane. That really has to be our sides of similarity. The problem is that the proposal does not go far enough. For what in the world are you doing in the evenings? In order to prevent the diet in the morning from ending up with potato gold and chips in front of the TV, could we perhaps introduce a people's kitchen in all the districts and in all the municipalities, with forced attendance? I don't know, but it's urgent, before the misnutrition and the overweight and the concentration problems, which are caused by bad eating habits, get the chance to evolve too far. I am confident that the Party of Advancement and the other Socialist parties will be able to come up with a solution. It must be possible to take some ideas from other countries, not only from Finland and Sweden, but perhaps also look a little closer to Communist China, the People's Republic of Korea or Fidel Castro's Cuba. Because there must be some ideas to pick up there. And then finally, in the event that irony is too hard to understand: the representatives of the Progress Party are saying away that Norway is the richest country in the world. In the richest country in the world, it should be possible for parents to afford and have time to cut some pieces of bread like school food for their children. The newspaper wrote on Sunday about a survey by the Farm Information Offices. It shows that eight out of ten parents with children in primary school thought it was easy to lubricate the school package. Most parents also thought that it was easy to find prescriptions that fit food, and to make the school package healthy and good. The study also shows that 70 pst. by the parents used rough bread in the school package. So most people aren't as stupid as the Progress Party and the other socialist parties later to believe. The school will provide enough gymnastics lessons and enough time to enjoy school food, but to pack the food, it'll do the parents themselves, and that's also a good responsibility. But of course, this is a popular suggestion. Because we humans are once created so that we like to say yes when we get something that we think is free and gives us a little less work as well. But it's a fraud. Nothing's free. Even oil money can't be used twice, not even by Carl I. Hagen or by the Progress Party. Free school food must be paid through the tax form at last. But it has been a long time since there was any argument for the Progress Party. And then finally, since this is probably my last post ever on this pulpit, I would particularly like to wish my old party, the Progress Party, good luck on the road to the socialist paradise, where the state takes care of us from the cradle through the school lunch to the grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1972	I think a little bit of the problem with this debate is that there's a pretty big discrepancy between what's actually happening in this room tonight and the public debate on this. And the reason why the public debate has become somewhat more accommodating is that it has also been accentuated in relation to the proposal that is opening up here tonight, which is mainly an investigation. There are many who seem to have hoped for a conclusion and promised that there will be a school meal, and some have gone a long way in suggesting or saying that there will also be a hot school meal, and that it will be free. What I'm thinking about is, what's the problem that we're going to solve? Well, the problem we're going to solve is that there are some children in Norway who have an unhealthy diet, and there are trends in obesity problems, a problem I understand is exactly the same in those countries that have introduced and have had school meals constantly. And then we think it's a good idea to learn with healthy diets. We agree with all of this. But the question is what is the answer to the question? That's where we think we don't have enough knowledge to give the final answer. But the knowledge we have doesn't indicate that a school meal is the answer. Let me just mention the numbers that we have per. today. They show that about 99 pst. of the children of the small school class have lunches at school. 95 pst. of the children in the middle have lunches in the school. 75 pst. Of the young children, there is a pack of food in the school. It was claimed in a radio debate yesterday by Mr. Djupedal that it was a problem that children in primary school brought with them a shower and chocolate and that kind of stuff in school. Sorry, President, I don't think that's true. I don't think a high school in Norway would allow shower and chocolate to be the usual diet you bring with you at school. There is also a false impression that showers are common in Norwegian schools. They may occur in high school, but then I have to remind you that there are students who are authoritative and who can go out of school at any time, but even there is now a trend to replace showers with water vending machines. It's cheaper, better and healthier. Some people claim that children take food with them, but they throw it. And then I just ask, how is a school meal going to solve such a problem? Should it be some kind of coercive feeding? I don't think that's gonna work. I think this is a problem – if it’s a problem – that basically all parents and all families today have an opportunity to solve. If you don't get to help the families who need it. In addition, the country already contributes to the development of local solutions, whether canteens, fruit schemes, which are now part of one third of schools, or milk schemes, with 350,000 students. These are systems that are growing, adapted to local conditions, and that work well. The problems associated with diet and obesity are not created by the school. That's not where it grows. Rather on the contrary, school is a healthy place. So what you're going to try to do here is replace the healthy part of the day with something else healthy, rather than doing something with that part of the day and that part of the day where you actually sit quietly and take in potato gold and drink shower, if that's what happens. So it's my claim that it's not at school. It is claimed that parents support this in polls. Yeah, it doesn't surprise me much. I noticed in a poll that there were a lot of parents who were positive that the children were having free food at school, but the same parents said it was okay to lubricate the food package too. I heard students today who were very excited about this proposal – they were at an event in the direction of the Children's Ombudsman – and they were now looking forward to pasta, lasagne and hamburgers, something that was quick to make, they said. It is not my impression that there is too little of this among Norwegian children today. So if it's these expectations that are created among the students, I think the students will be very, very disappointed. The reason why I have sent a very factual response to the committee is as I said, that I felt that there was something else on the agenda than what you get in the public debate now, and that I believe that it is always good with knowledge, and that we must have a decision-making basis, whether we mean one thing or the other. That is why the Government has already taken the initiative to investigate this, regardless of what the Storting is about to do. We need to know about costs – they, I just have to admit, can be huge. It goes from $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion, but it's based on a lot of sobering calculations and bread. If you have something more than that, the costs are likely to rise quite radically. We need to discuss the framework for this, time, premises, etc. and the contents of meals, including: raise cultural questions. This has to be seen, of course, in the light of the fact that we have decided to implement a large amount of knowledge in Norwegian school that will cost billions of dollars, and that there will always be a question of prioritisation at each and every penny spent on public budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e1998	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2001	‘Food package bottled’ is the title of today’s management article in Today’s Business. The lead writer in this paper is just one of a number of leading writers and commentators who in various ways have responded with the Socialist Left Party's proposal for free school meals. If the food bottle from the Socialist Left Party was meant as a bottle of choice, I am afraid it has had an unappreciative smell and taste before it has been treated. Today's Business continues: ‘This is the biggest thing in the world, and there is no excuse that the election campaign is close.’ And on the other hand, ‘The new school metallance appears to be as tempting as a squeezed food package with mackerel in tomato and sweaty brown cheese.’ Similar characteristics and references to the proposal are also evident in a wide range of other newspapers. In fact, it is rare to see a political proposal then become the degrees slaughtered and the party in the media. It must be a cross of thought for the Progress Party that they have agreed to this in alliance with the Red-Green Cooperation Parties. Neither the proposal nor the procedure put forward help to strengthen the desire of the Party for government cooperation. For the Right, it's the parents' responsibility to raise their own children, teach their children good eating habits and make sure that their children have a healthy and good food at school. Of course, this should help the school, but there must be limits to the tasks and responsibilities to be taken from parents, and then transfer responsibilities and tasks to public employees. It is not conservative policy, nor is it Right-wing policy. The proposal by the Socialist Left also supports the principle of freedom of choice and diversity. It is not necessary for the Storting to govern in detail the everyday life of all schoolchildren, all schools and in all local settings through central directives and legislative formulations. The organisation of school meals and good arrangements for pleasant breaks at school can be done in a variety of ways, and can be left to the individual school, school owner, parents and pupils together. Socialistic unification and central orientation are not needed in this area. However, it is most serious that the SV’s proposal removes both attention and resources from the school’s main task: to provide training and knowledge dissemination. The promise of knowledge is now to be carried out after previous professional drop-outs at school. Teachers shall undergo extensive continuing training. This requires the attention and resources available to the school. In this context, free school food becomes a dead end and a complete derailment of the Knowledge promise. In this context, too, I am surprised that the Progress Party is in contact with the Socialists. Finally, everything that is free encourages over-consumption and waste. That is the totally opposite attitude we should teach our children and young people about food, in a world where large parts of the population are starving.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2026	I have to say that I am quite left over how clear it is that neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party are able to see what this is all about. Since we've come to midnight, and we'll have a full and rich opportunity to discuss the introduction of school meals later on, I'll briefly say what's going on in this case. This small document is the beginning of a big case for students in Norwegian school, and it's actually also about making the Norwegian school better, because in our view, a good school also includes a good school meal. We have not gained experience from North Korea or other similar states, but we have among other things. seen in a Nordic neighboring country that actually knocks us down in the boots in terms of learning outcomes. Finnish students are probably the ones who get the best out of a number of international student comparisons. What the Progress Party and I have noticed is that some of the Finnish teachers point to as one of several reasons for this, precisely the good effect of the school meal in Finnish school. But first and foremost, the political reality does not lie in whether we or other parties than ours wholly join the original SV proposal. It is entirely uninteresting from the point of view of the Progressive Party. The point here is that there is a majority that gives a political mission, a rather concrete task with a time frame. It's interesting to hear that this department has started working on its own – excellent, actually. Then it is mentally prepared for this job to be done. But we who make up the majority will therefore give a clear mission, a clear premise for the mission, a clear goal for the mission, and we have set a time frame. For my part, on behalf of the Progress Party, I have said that it is not necessary to use it all the time. We actually think it's possible to do this without spending an entire year. But the main point is that a political mission will be given to an important improvement action in Norwegian school, which will work positively with the other improvement actions we have started. We want to get it before the next spring is over, and we have an ambition to move forward so that we have something to show up and something to start with when the 2006–2007 school year starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2033	I wonder if the right turns to the big heights now, because the opposition has ordered about 3 of the 23 billion kroner that the Right has promised in tax bills in the next period. For us, this is not a campaign case. SV is not an opinion polling party that changes the meaning of school food according to the different opinion polls. This is a case that SV has handled in the application after the application. This has been important for SV, and SV is convinced that school food will improve the quality of the school. We have also received many reports on this. We have experience from Sweden, we have experience from Finland, there have been many trials in Norwegian school, and we have also received support for our proposal now both from nutrition experts and from professionals. What the Storting is going to say today is that learning, nutrition and quality in school are interrelated. The second thing we're going to say is that somehow it's going to be introduced to school food. The proposal that is going to have a majority today, which is important for SV, is that by the end of spring 2006, a school meal scheme should be organised in primary school, and, as I have said before, it should be done with a view to gradual introduction. The investigation shall also assess the need for practical organisation and funding. The big debate about school food, how we're going to phase in school food, and in what way you're going to do it, will come next spring in the Stortinge, and, as I said earlier, I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2044	The rapporteur started the debate by saying that it was 'a small document, but a big one'. I think this debate actually illustrates that it is. Blackvik also said that the Right and Christian People’s Party ‘does not have the power to understand what this is about’. But here's a proposal to investigate, and the rapporteur places emphasis on it, and at the same time, the Socialist Left Party spokesperson goes to this pulpit and says it's a decision to introduce school food. There's a significant difference between these two things, and when I read the proposal for a decision, I can't read that this is 'introduced' school food. But it's an order to investigate, and we're always going to be able to make an investigation. I think the Council of State had a very constructive approach to what it is like then being raised by issues, and whether the different arrangements work in relation to what is being asked. But the confusion that may have been created in this room around the content of the decision, it is the proposers who have created, and it would have been very interesting to hear if the Workers' Party now believes that we are adopting an investigation, or whether we are deciding to introduce it. However, I believe that it is clear in the decision that one should investigate, and that if nothing else is said, it is the interpretation that lies here. Finally, I feel the very thing as a result of the age crisis of the welfare society and not as a result of a poverty crisis. But it is not said that a general school meal is the answer to the timing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2051	I think this is one of the strangest debates I've ever heard in Stortinget. Maybe that's how you do it when you touch the national symbol food packages. It's one of the things you don't have to joke about in Norway. It is like the symbol of high morals and parental accountability. I understand that there are many people who have strong feelings about this, and you have to eat their food package for me, but I think that if we know by sea what kind of meal we can imagine to eat in the middle of the day, what kind of meals we actually eat in the middle of the day, the few of those sitting in this room will prefer a food package. We want to eat our food in a pleasant environment, and we want to have social relations with others while we eat. SV is also convinced that good learning and nutrition belong together. We believe that it will create a learning environment that will make individuals profit from it, that society will benefit from it, and that this is a good economy in the long term. That's why we think it's worth investing in it. I respect that the Right believes that there are other steps that will create better learning or more growth – I respect it – but I also ask for respect for others who believe that this is actually a good proposal. Otherwise, I am a little surprised that the representatives of the Education Committee clearly have some problems with reading skills, because it is very clear in the vote what this proposal is about, what it is about. When SV believes that this is a good arrangement, and states that we want this, it is an expression of our initiative and wish in this matter. We are in favour of that proposal, which is a joint proposal. In addition to this, I would like to refer to the position, where it says: there are several ways of organising a school meal scheme for all primary school students, and it is important that an overall assessment of experiences and examples from other countries with school meals is produced. That means you haven't said that this is going to happen in one special way. I think it's a little sad that you're trying to turn the debate over to something other than what you actually have to agree on. And then maybe the most bizarre argument I've heard today, which came from the vice-chairman of the committee, who obviously believes that the world's hunger is getting less of eating food than eating a common meal. There is a reasonable need to distribute food and resources in this world better than what we are doing today, but eating food packages has a terrible little to do with it. A fair economic policy, both globally and nationally, has a lot to do with it, and there I don't think Right has the best contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2072	It is a good old Norwegian saying that the more cooks, the more waste. I have no expertise in what's going on in a school kitchen, but in the political school kitchen, at least the vocabulary is clearly sticking. The problem with the way the matter has been dealt with, and which has resulted in the likely adoption of a proposal that is very different from the proposal submitted by the Socialist Left Party, is that the parties that are behind the final product, which is an open investigative directive to the Government, have a very different view of what they are in this House today. And that illustrates another problem: we started this working week in the Great Britain to deal with the power and democracy investigation, where we talk about the confusion in the Norwegian political system and the weakened confidence the voters have in us who make decisions on the Stortinget. I think this case is another example of why it is so, expressed through the parties that have been most active in marketing a major reform. Now school food is to be introduced," said Lena Jensen repeatedly. I remember a bit back in the last millennium, and as far as my memory reaches at least, there has always been school food as the most obvious thing in Norwegian school. But this way, you systematically put the voters behind the light. Expectations are created for which you do not have coverage and for which you do not follow up with binding decisions in Stortinget. Then it is no wonder that more and more voters are saying that there is nothing you can trust in what is marketed by the political parties. Therefore, I must say I am very pleased that there are some parties that keep their path clean in this matter, and that indicate that they will not be responsible for the expectations that are now created, and that will impose on us another confidence crisis in the relationship between the Storting and the voters in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2081	Although this is a matter of fundamental importance, the President has the impression that the majority is soon said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2084	I think so, but here's some things that talk past each other, and I feel for the sake of the record and the protocol need to clarify something. The representative, Karin Andersen, was up here and expressed that we saw others misunderstanding SV's intentions with their original proposal and wish for a free school meal in school, and she said that the reason why you wanted it was to want a pleasant environment when you ate, social interaction between the students and good nutrition because it leads to good learning. Let me just say as strongly as I can: all of us are also for that. The only question we're raising is whether it's not like this today. My impression is that many students eat in a pleasant environment with each other – that is, social association – and that it is good nutrition because it is 99 pst. brought the food package from home. One third of the schools have fruit arrangements. 350,000 students have milk. They're canteen systems. This is under constant development. We just ask, do you have to have a government reform and pay for free state food, so to get a pleasant environment, social association and good nutrition? That's the question. No one's against it. On the contrary, in the knowledge promise to be made, the educational plaque contains a whole new element that the schools have a responsibility to facilitate good school meals, set a framework for it, spend time in a pleasant environment, and all of this, and that they have a responsibility for physical activity. There is no doubt about this. The only question is whether this must be the responsibility of the state. So I feel the need to say, since it's always going to be set against the so-called tax reliefs, whether you say the government's or the right, that I don't share SV's view of tax relief. I don't think that a cost bill is the same as a crown of tax reliefs. I believe that a company that is profiting and paying taxes is much better than a company that is bankrupt or has moved abroad. I also believe that a family that is able to pay for its own food, and pay off its debt itself and is self-held, is a family that has it much better than a family that doesn't. So the fact that the economy is going well is related to the tax relief. In our opinion, there is room for more public welfare, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2097	Lena Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2100	It has emerged in the debate that there is some confusion as to what is really meant by the proposal that the majority will adopt today. I would like to refer to the comments made by the minority in the Committee, where, among other things: read: ‘These members believe that the introduction of a school meal in primary school is an important measure of learning children and young people good eating habits’. ‘considers that a common school system should build on the best in Norwegian food traditions and ensure all healthy, good and nutritious food’. A majority also believe that local arrangements should be made for the introduction of the school food system. The comments are clear and give a very clear explanation of what this proposal means. I also believe that the proposal speaks clearly for itself, with a view to the gradual introduction of school meals in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2117	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2135	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2154	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2172	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2191	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2209	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2227	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2245	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2263	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2279	We are now going to deal with what's going on in the social security scheme for the current year. Although this is not a large and complicated calculation proposal, but a very concrete proposal, we shall try to make it a little more effective, or at least make sure that it is properly presented. The parties to the social security scheme, consisting of the government parties, the FFO, the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the LO, have had discussions on 24 and 25 May of the current year. They have discussed what is going on in the social security system itself, i.e. the regulation of the basic amount in the social security system. The counterparts of the Government had a claim of 3.55 pst., including a lag from 2003 to 2004 of 0.05 pst. Based on the figures relating to wage developments for the period, the Technical Calculation Committee concluded that the salary increase from 2003 to 2004 was 3.6 pst, while the adjustment of the basic amount for the same period last year was 3.55 pst. That was agreed. Furthermore, the parties agreed on 25 May that the basic amount would be increased by NOK 1921, from NOK 58 778 to NOK 60 699, from 1 May of the current year. The parties have reached an agreement and the Committee therefore sees no need to make proposals other than those contained in this settlement. However, the minority, consisting of the Progress Party and the Centre Party, has a separate note, such as: refers to previous years' proposals which aim to: ‘The downturn asks the Government to submit by the end of 2002 an escalation plan to result in a full-earned pension of 2/3 of previous employee income in 2007.’ This proposal fell in its time when it was being promoted, nor does it have the majority's support today. But both the Progress Party and the Center Party, which is behind the comment, accept that one has come to an agreement, and sees no reason to do anything but what they are asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2313	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2320	The Coastal Party supports the proposal of the Ursula Evje and Jan Simonsen to launch immediate measures to eliminate 65 to 70 tonnes of mercury on board the U-864 submarine wreck outside Fedje in Hordaland. This is one thing the Coastal Party has been working on for a long time, yes for several years. The coastal party believes that the submarine represents an environmental bomb of dimensions. Mercury is fatal, and it is claimed that 64 tonnes of mercury corresponds to almost 60 years of total emissions from all of Norway’s industry and population. This mercury is located at positions 60o 46" N, 04o 35" Ø, at Fedje. Let's just say it right away. The coastal works have done a good job in this matter and are proposing a comprehensive plan to remove the mercury cargo and wrecked by the German submarine outside of Fedje. The cost will exceed 350 million. kr. In view of the costs of removal, it is necessary to carry out new direct pilot studies with regard to the state and the possibilities of removing mercury containers in the wreckage and on the seabed before the wreckage is lifted. The report by the Coastal Works, signed as Coastal Director Øyvind Stene and Deputy Director Tor Christian Sletner, recommends the creation of a two-stage project. It is essential for the project to be properly carried out that thorough feasibility studies are carried out as soon as possible. The cost of this pilot project is estimated at 14.4 million. kr. The main project is estimated to cost 338 million. kr. The total cost was therefore estimated at 352,4 million. kr. The Coastal Party proposes in the revised national budget that 14.4 million be allocated. kr extra over the Coastal Works budget for the necessary preliminary project, which involves thorough feasibility studies. These pilot studies need to be launched as soon as possible and in any case in the current year. We hope that we will receive the support of an overall Committee on Transport for this proposal. I have no doubt that a total accumulation is of the opinion that it is important to get ahead of work to get the mercury out of the submarine. I don't doubt that a total collapse will overlook the environmental disaster if the mercury starts leaking out, perhaps to a large extent. I do not doubt that a total collapse is fully aware that a leakage will lead to scandals for an overall fishing industry, and for Norway as an environmental nation. If we get a leak, we will truly notice former Prime Minister Lars Korvald's mention of Norway as a small country in the world. The international fish market will never understand that such a leakage can occur in one of the richest countries in the world. They hardly understand that the fishing nation of Norway allows us to have such an environmental bomb. For the international fishing industry and for the international press, the disaster will not be located in Fedje, but in the entire Norwegian coast. Norway will lose its billion markets for fish in a moment. Here we are talking about an international industry that sells over 30 billion dollars a year. I think we know enough to start the project. Now we have to show backbone and act force and remove this environmental bomb as soon as possible. We're already overtime. Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2343	I don't know exactly what to say about this attitude from the committee. It's only made up of three or four lines. At least I am pleased that you refer to the document, no. 8:99, because it's important to read it. It is a thorough and well-worked document. So, of course, it's impressive that you can give the setting in a matter in a few hours, at least a few days, even if the setting consists of just one sentence, where it's called "the government is doing the right thing for the situation with probable mercury contamination outside of Fedje." It is, with respect, very little obligating. I assume that the government in connection with a government budget can do so without any problem. At least the government should have been asked to investigate this thoroughly with a view to proposing that something be done in connection with the State budget. I am of the opinion that 65-70 tonnes of mercury on board a submarine wreck is a significant environmental bomb that should be immediately seized. That is why I am promoting the proposal that has been distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2352	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2355	The U-864 submarine was found by the Naval Defense in 2003. It was lowered in 1945. The wreck is 150 metres deep, about 2 km west of Fedje. The wreck is divided into two, and the fore and stern appear to be relatively intact. The middle part has not been found. Historical documents show that the submarine probably had about 65 tonnes of metallic liquid mercury on board when it was lowered. The mercury was stored in 1857 steel bottles. We do not know the state of the containers today. Of course, we're concerned about the pollution hazard. However, on the other hand, it is essential that we work thoroughly and systematically in this matter, so that no hasty conclusions are drawn or measures are taken which could lead to an increased risk of the spread of mercury. The first step in the work of the Coastal Directorate on pollution hazard was carried out in autumn 2003 and winter 2004 in order to confirm whether there could be a cargo of mercury on board and whether parts of it had leaked out. In some sediment samples very high concentrations of mercury were detected. There is no reason to believe that there are sources other than the wreck. Therefore, a mercury study in fish and crustaceans was started in the autumn of 2003 at NIVES. The EU maximum level for mercury in seafood is 0.5 milligrams per year. kg wet weight. The mercury content of Uer from Fedje was 0.22 milligrams per. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, For crabs, only one of the 25 sample values was in line with the EU upper limit, while the mercury content in cod, sieving and long corresponded to what has been found to be the normal level for mercury in these species. The Food Safety Authority was kept informed of this work and it is important to stress that in late 2004 there was no reason for the Food Safety Authority to issue dietary advice related to fish or crustaceans from the area of Fedje. As a third step in our work, NIVA has made an assessment of the risk of mercury to the environment in the future. In this context, we have assumed that there may be as much as 65-70 tonnes of metallic mercury in the wreck. In the light of environmental risk assessments and consultations with the Marine Research Institute, the Directorate for Fisheries, NIVES and NIVA, the Coastal Directorate has recommended that measures be taken to eliminate the risk of mercury pollution. This recommendation was received in the Ministry on 7 June of this year. The Coastal Directorate recommends that a pre-project should carry out a thorough monitoring of the wreckage and area around it and assess what measures are feasible without creating an unacceptable risk of further contamination. In the light of the pre-project, the recommendation is that a main project should be undertaken which eliminates, as far as possible, the risk of pollution. The most comprehensive option is to remove the cargo, wreck and polluting sediments. The option of simultaneous lifting of the wreck, with the cargo on board, is considered to present a high risk of further contamination. If the load and the wreck cannot be lifted, encapsulation/coverage of the wreck at the bottom is another option. The report has been made publicly available. The recommendation of the Coastal Directorate is now being assessed in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It is absolutely necessary that we do a thorough job and not least analyse the risk of what kind of pollution it could lead to if we handle the wreck in an unfortunate way. The Government, as the Committee asks, will, of course, return to the State budget for 2006. In this context, as far as we have come, we will be able to provide a more thorough analysis of the possibilities that exist, in the light of the detailed studies that have been carried out. I assure you once again: This has been continuously followed by the Government, since it was discovered in 2003. I hear some representatives say that they have been concerned about this for years, but we found it wrecked in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2381	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3054]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2399	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2417	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2436	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2444	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 25 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2586	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Reidar Sandal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-12, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 13–15, by Karin Andersen on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposals No. 16 and 17, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party, In the further vote, the President will first vote on the minority proposals in the usual way by starting with the smallest fraction, with the following exceptions: The proposals relating to the total income of the local government sector will be addressed in the order that we start with the most extreme, i.e. the proposal that has the highest amount, so the second highest, etc. It gives those who have their primary proposal rejected the possibility of subsidiary aid to the second highest, etc. This procedure is in line with Storting's practice in relation to this type of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2613	I would like to suggest an alternative voting. I will seek to reach a decision that should be in the interest of all parties. I therefore propose that we vote in proportion to the size of the framework proposals and that we end up with alternative voting between the Government's proposals and the proposals of the Progress Party. Can I also, in order to save some time, take an explanation of vote immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2620	Isn't that what the president suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2623	The President proposed to take decisions throughout the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2628	The president didn't do it. The President did so on all the other proposals, but with regard to the proposals relating to the framework, the President suggested that we follow the procedure that we vote first on the most extreme, and then we end up with the Progress Party. Otherwise, the President cannot see that there is any proposal from the Government. So it's going to be voting for and against the proposals of the Progress Party at the end – then it's going to work as it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2631	Thank you, President! Can I have an explanation of vote, too? We would like to have the opportunity to vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, and then we will vote against XVI, XVII, XVIII, XVIII and XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2638	The President assumes that the members of the Advance Party got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2641	There are some proposals that I shall vote in favour of, and others against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2648	You just have to keep that order by yourself, and it's gonna be okay. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to increase all regional investment by 2 million. crowns in the State budget for 2006.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2665	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a separate grant linked to new learning material as a result of the Knowledge Promise. The resources shall be allocated according to the criteria of the income system.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2680	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2006 to propose an additional funding of the school structure necessary to ensure that children do not get an unreasonable school path.’ The central party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2697	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 to 12 from the Party of Advancement, with the exception of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2759	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish incentive arrangements for the distribution and implementation of inter-municipal cooperation solutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2774	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The municipal component of the top-level financing scheme for particularly heavy users shall be SEK 650 000.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2791	The remaining proposals concerning the total income of the local government sector remain. Here we start with proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party, which is the most extreme. The proposal reads as follows: «The total income of the local government sector shall be between 8 and 9 billion. 2006 crowns.The growth in the free income of the local government sector shall be between 5,8 and 6,8 billion. crowns for 2006. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2808	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The growth of the total income of the local government sector shall be between 6,7 and 7,7 billion. SEK 2006.The growth rate in the municipal sector shall be between 5,7 and 6,7 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2825	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The total income of the local government sector shall be 5,5 billion. SEK 2006.The growth in the free income of the local government sector shall be SEK 4.8 billion. crowns for 2006.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2842	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The total income of the local government sector shall be 4,5 billion. SEK 2006.The growth in the free income of the local government sector shall be SEK 3.8 billion. crowns for 2006.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2860	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2951	The President here expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e2970	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3005	The President has understood that the Advance Party wishes to vote against XVI-XXI, as indicated in the vote. But now the president understands that Per Sandberg should have announced that the Progress Party will support XX and XXI. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3010	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3017	It is then voted over XVI, XVII, XVIII and XIX. Here the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3043	Here the President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3060	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3110	The President will then vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3155	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3201	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case for the introduction of a single price finance in primary and secondary education, which shall include both operating costs and capital expenditure. The government asks the government to consider how to adjust the unit price to the size of the school, the individual needs of the students for adapted training and whether the scheme should include a basic amount per. the school as a basic funding.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3225	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3240	The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party reads: ‘Document No. 8:58 Proposals by the staggering representatives Rune J. Skylaaen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Eli Sollied Practices on enhanced funding of secondary schools – not acceptable.” [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3260	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the au pair scheme in Norway to ensure that the rights of the au pair are respected.’ The central party has announced their support for the proposal. The President is a little uncertain about what the Workers' Party has announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3279	We will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3295	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3303	The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on the granting of a work permit to professionals and specialists so that qualified immigrants can obtain a work permit and a residence permit to apply for work in Norway for a specified period of time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3322	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3360	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeat the 2004 procedure to review the asylum cases to children who have been living in the country after an asylum application for more than three years. A new treatment, as in 2004, must be based on a generous assessment based on the specific situation of children, human considerations and the nature of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 3 which states that ‘the best interests of the child shall be fundamental’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3375	As an alternative, between the Committee's position on I and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3385	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:81 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3402	President! I was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3409	Since it appears that there are several people who have not registered their vote, we take the vote again. The President repeats that there is an alternative vote between the Committee's position on I and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3429	Here the President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3446	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3456	The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party reads: ‘Document No. 8:89 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3472	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3479	There should then be 53 votes for the proposal and 47 votes for the vote. The proposal by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party is thus accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3488	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative of the Grand Duchy of Andersen, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 9 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a full non-tax treatment of administrative services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and between stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3507	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Lena Jensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-7, by Lena Jensen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposals No. 8-10, from Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2-7, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3585	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3609	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own supplementary communication to the Research Communication on how funds from the Oil Fund can be used for enhanced research efforts and how Tax findings and other tax arrangements can contribute to achieving the objective of R & D efforts of 2 pst. of GDP for the private sector. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3624	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return with a financing facility to ensure the long-term sustainability of Norwegian research institutes. The government is asked to assess whether a stepping-up plan of strategic institute programmes can be an effective way to achieve this objective for the institution sector.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3645	The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3676	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Senter-Party No. 2, from Karita Bekkekellem Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a free fruit and green scheme for all primary school students.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3700	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3708	The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads as follows: ‘The government asked for a school meal scheme in primary school by the end of 2006 for a gradual introduction. The investigation should include, inter alia, an assessment of the need for practical organisation and funding.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3727	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on free national school choice in higher education, including national lines and nationwide offers based on state-level price financing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3746	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals on statutory operating boards in all public schools and to have parental representatives have a majority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3765	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2005: «The Government asks the Government to bring forward a new case with the wording of § 6-2b and § 6A-8 first paragraph of the Law on Free Schooling, which prevents the imposition of restrictions on the operation by public schools.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3784	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government is asked to provide a thorough review of the place of special education in Norwegian school, including an assessment of resource use and results, as well as the organisation and activities of the State support system.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the representative Jan Simonsen are behind the proposal, so the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3805	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to introduce a general right to secondary education regardless of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3822	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Rikam, representative of the Grand Duchy on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new purpose clause in the Training Act, based on the wording of the School Group under the Value Commission. The proposal must reflect the fact that Norway has become a multicultural and pluralistic society, and must be able to bring together a wide range of communities of faith and life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3841	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Rikam, representative of the Grand Duchy on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a new curriculum for the CRL subject for treatment in the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e3860	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Rikam, representative of the Grand Duchy on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 4 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the changes in the CRL subject with changes in the trade name. The name should reflect that life-view, ethics and value issues are central to the subject and not give Christian faith and culture special precedence.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4324	The President will note that it has been a long time since the social security settlement went through the Stortinge unanimously. That's a good sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4332	During the debate, the representative Jan Simonsen raised a proposal on behalf of himself. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests immediate action to remove 65 to 70 tonnes of mercury on board submarine wreck U-864 outside Fedje in Hordaland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4360	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an explanation of how it will relate to the storage and deletion of biometric data.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4379	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 June 2005: «The Government is asked to introduce an extended obligation to publish the revenue of the lots on 1 September of the election year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4398	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2005: ‘Political parties may not have income from slot machines; this also includes income generated from slot machines placed in bingo venues.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4414	I did not get a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16-2.ana.ud281e4421	The Socialist Left proposal was then rejected by 82 votes to 16.
