ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e32	The representative André Kukkestad, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Kjetil Bjørklund, Per Roar Bredvold and Per Ove Width, for the period from 27 May to 31 May, all to participate in the summer session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ljubljana from the representative Jan Olsen on welfare leave from 27 May to 3 June. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oppland County, Tove Lehre, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Kjetil Bjørklund's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to attend the term of leave: For East-Agder County: Lilly Tønnevold StakkelandFor Hedmark County: Johnny HultFor Uppland County: Sigmund HagenFor Vestfold County: Vidar AndersenJohnny Hult, Sigmund Hagen and Vidar Andersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund and Per Ove Wideth respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e87	Johnny Hult, Sigmund Hagen and Vidar Andersen are here to sit. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e92	I have the pleasure on behalf of representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Gjermund Hagesetter, Arne Sortevik and myself to propose a more active policy for the protection of the interests of Norwegian citizens abroad as well as a more active use of Norwegian treatment institutions, etc. abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e97	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e111	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e122	The size should now address the maritime economic development forecast, which has been given the name of the blue field. The notification is a follow-up to the Storting decision in connection with a proposal promoted by the Workers' Party for approx. Two years ago. This proposal was aimed at getting its own report on a comprehensive coastal policy and on the challenges posed by coastal communities. The proposal was defeated by the majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – and instead it was decided that a notification should be submitted that would be limited to the value creation and development potential of the marine industries. An overall committee believes that the present Communication provides a good description of the relationship with the marine industry, but a majority of the Committee states that it would have been an advantage if the Communication had highlighted more fully the situation of our coastal communities. The sea areas within Norway's economic zone are six times the size of the land area we live in. Norway is one of the countries in the world with the longest coastline in relation to the population. 90 pst. of the inhabitants of North Norway live less than 4 km from the coast and more than 90 pst. the population of South Norway lives less than an hour off the coast. This clearly shows what the coast has to say for the settlement and for the business community in this country. The proximity to the sea is essential for our national wealth and well-being. This makes it so important that we set ourselves up so that we can also reap from the sea in the future, and that we can combine the interests of the industries of the coast and the sea provide us with a basis for it. Therefore, it is also important for us to pursue a policy in the future on the basis of which the natural advantages and resources will benefit coastal communities and the country in terms of housing and business. Living and business in our coastal communities has been historically motivated by the sea, and this will also have to be the main basis for the existence of coastal communities in the future. Therefore, coastal activity cannot be left unilaterally to market management and to business neutrality. If we are to have housing and business in our coastal communities, we must have political governance and good instruments, combined with an active local population with the ability and willingness to create businesses and jobs. There are, as I said, enormous opportunities for nutrient development along the coast, while at the same time parts of the coast are characterised by stagnation and decline. From the Labour Party, we will exploit coastal opportunities to generate new growth in our coastal communities. I hope and believe that there is still great will in this house for us to keep our coastal communities as vital and upgoing communities with faith in the future. This is of the utmost importance for the country as a whole. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee clearly states that a living coastline requires that the countryside is viable and that the cultural landscape is preserved. The majority also emphasise the importance of keeping both the fisheries and agricultural industries in line with good and safe jobs. More and more of industrial developments will depend in the future on knowledge and skills. Together with the natural opportunities, it is our ability to develop new ideas and to put the ideas into life that will be crucial for value creation, employment and well-being. Therefore, training, research and development must be central to all forms of industrial development. An overall committee sees the need to further strengthen research in areas such as market knowledge, market product development, breeding of new species and marine biotechnology. The Committee supports the Government's proposals on the organisation of blue-green research and sees the need to increase research activity. This is why, among other things: the need to maintain the existing research stations. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, sees it as very important that a commitment to research and development takes place with considerable State effort. An overall committee suggests that fishing resources are a social resource that needs to be managed for the benefit of coastal settlement and industrial development. The Committee also notes that it is a strength that the fishing industry has a structure in which operators vary in size and that they each form the basis for viable local communities. Furthermore, a large majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, says that the fishing resources are the property of the community and that the fishing rights cannot be privatised. I am pleased that these principles are fixed in this setting, and I just hope that this is something that can still be translated into practical policy. Let me also mention that a majority in the committee sees it as critical that the ministry has abolished the time limit for unit quotas without presenting the matter to the Stortinget. I believe that a very important instrument for the industry and for our coastal communities is the turnover generated by the sales laws, and that we can have as much as possible a fleet of participants. I am therefore pleased that a large majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, clearly state that the participation law and the raw fish law should be upheld. In the setting, the situation with regard to the royal crab has been given a good review. The Committee notes that the amount of king crabs, especially in the middle of the fjords in East Finland, is so large that traditional line and yarn fishing is very strongly inhibited. This leads to considerable losses, and the Committee therefore does not find it unreasonable that this loss should be compensated for by quotas on royal crabs, even for boats less than seven metres. The Committee asks the Government to take the initiative in the Norwegian-Russian fisheries negotiations in order to significantly increase the total quota for king crabs. The Committee also states that it is important to strengthen resource control in order to prevent economic and environmental crime and to ensure sound conditions within the industry. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees with a proposal to ask the Government to propose a strengthening of resource control. The maritime industry is also at the heart of the adjustment process, and an overall committee shows that the development of the aquaculture industry has given Norway an enormous economic boost. Figures show that 1.5 billion portions of salmon are exported annually, or 25 000 trailer transports. This gives us a good picture of how important this industry is. The Committee considers that access to cephalopods could be a restriction on industry, and a majority believe that this is a priority for innovation in Norway. Otherwise, the relationship with aquaculture is treated in detail in the context of a new aquaculture law in Odelstingen in a few days. The government's proposal to establish a marine innovation programme is very positive, and together with the constructive proposals and remarks in the vote, I believe that the outcome of this process has been good. It may have to be a common task for all of us to ensure that there can be greater interest in this industry and in the situation of coastal communities in the future. I recommend the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e180	The Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy Spokesman referred to the fact that a different message was actually sought than the one received, a comprehensive report on the situation in Coastal Norway. He didn't. The representative Arnesen nevertheless chose to keep a main post around a message which he did not receive, but which he wanted to receive. The news of growth that we have to deal with today is primarily focused on value creation, research and, to a large extent, the market situation. What could happen if, in today's important debate, the Workers' Party's Chief Fisheries Commissioner did not mention the situation in the market, where fish are bought and sold, in one single word? Is it because this is too complicated, or is it because the situation among the red comrades is such that you still want to reverse the word'market' and the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e192	Part of my post was the coin of research and development, and I was also in on product development. It is quite obvious that market access for the products is of great importance, and it is also mentioned in the statement, as the representative of Kristiansen knows. When I decided to focus on what goes on the situation of coastal communities, the settlement and the creation of value on the coast, it was because it's important that we have it in place when we're going to produce for a market. I am aware that Kristiansen may refer to my EU vision when he asks what he does, but I must be allowed to come back to that once I have better time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e199	We have received a signal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party want to form a government for the fall if the election result is such that they get a multiple. In this way, it must be interesting for this hall and also for the voters to know how the Workers' Party stands for what I believe is a rather harsh demand from the Centre Party and SV. They type in the following setting: ‘These members therefore believe that the factory jet fleet, which contributes less to this, should be phased out over a period of 10 years and the resources transferred to the coastal fleet.’ It might be interesting to know what is the Workers' Party's attitude to this, when they know that the largest workplace in the Ørsta municipality will then be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e209	Yes, there is a lot of searching in these days for hooks to hang on to the future government cooperation. I just want to say that I noticed that the representative Solholm's party is proposing to the bourgeois side, and it could be interesting to be a mouse in the hook and listen to those government negotiations. I make it clear here and now what the Workers' Party has also written, that the Workers' Party is running for a differentiated fleet, with the allocation of the resources that we have today, and that is the basis of the Workers' Party's government negotiations. What is therefore important here is to make sure that there is a strong working party in future government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e216	I would say to the representative Bendiks Arnesen: I believe that in some areas we can be a few, and in other areas we can disagree. But there are some facts that we can't help but get under the chair. Even if we don't like it, the fish is a limited resource, and more boats occupy larger fish resources than before. We therefore recognise that we need to reduce the number of fishing vessels, and that is also the Workers' Party in a comment in the setting. I feel that the Labour Party here is releasing several parties: one criticises the Government for their responsibility for structural measures. One knows that there may be a tough round, but one has been listening to the organizations, one has listened to the fish layers and the industry and what they came up with, that we have too many fishing vessels. My question then becomes Arnesen, because what I hear is critical and not proposing solutions: how will the Labour Party solve this? What is the Workers' Party's response to the challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e221	I think the representative Molvær Grimstad started his line by saying that the fish is a limited resource, and that we have to make sure that we have it in the future. The working party has repeatedly pointed it out, both in this setting and in many other settings. The Labour Party wanted the situation of coastal communities to be looked at in terms of how this structural change would affect coastal communities. We see that what has now happened has a negative impact on the coastal communities. We see, and we also write that in the setting, 'it's not a goal in itself to reduce the number of fishing vessels', but we see the need to structure the fleet so that we have both profitability in the fleet and a fleet of good quality. That is why we have also said that we want a programme to develop the coastal fleet and to get the coastal fleet in a better constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e229	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e232	I am pleased that we have this message for treatment today, and that it is just concentrating on value creation, research, development and the situation in the market, where 95-96 pst. Norwegian production is mainly traded in the European market. We have a developing market situation, and the Norwegian fishing industry is actually represented in more than 150 nations around the world. There are hardly any industries with higher international market skills than the Norwegian fishing industry. It is therefore a paradox that we still have the art of providing Norwegian fishing industry with the worst export conditions for all export industries. I am also pleased that it was not an all-encompassing big message, which should have taken care of any political area for treatment. There are two reasons for this: firstly, we had lost focus on the situation in the market, where the customer and the seller negotiate. The second is that there would probably have been another committee that would have had this matter under consideration, probably the municipal committee. I am also pleased that this message seems to have received a fairly broad connection in Stortinget. It is actually only in one area that the setting has a small deviation. The government parties do not follow the opposition parties in the case of female crab withdrawals, not because we are opposed to increased king crab withdrawals, but we do not see that a larger withdrawal overall for the king crab solves the situation regarding the development of the king crab. We are in a situation where the Norwegian fishing industry is back in good development. We see that this is now being followed up by the Government's research report, where a power cap is really being taken within the great potential of the Norwegian fishing industry. We are also at a time when the Norwegian fishing industry is affected in many contexts internationally, not least through trade arrangements and traffic rules in trade, which can help to raise the opportunities of the fishing industry. I am thinking first and foremost of the ongoing WTO negotiations. If we are to achieve our goals and our many and big ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry, it is primarily in the market that the battle will stand. We do, however, have a situation in which the greatest attention to be paid to the Norwegian fisheries policy is at the fishing stage, but that is not where the major challenges ahead will be. We have a lot of capacity to record the allocated allowances, allowances that are currently growing in many important areas. It's also a new and happy situation. But it is in the market battle will stand. It's about the WTO, which I've been to, and it's about our relationship to the nearest, most important and best paid market, Europe. We see that the parties and organisations in the Norwegian fishing industry are very concerned about this situation. If we are to succeed in our ambitions, we must be willing to remove some heavy backpacks that we have deliberately imposed on the Norwegian fishing industry. We mix up all the world's relationships when we talk about Norwegian fisheries. The Vignette District Policy, what it must be in this context, I don't know. But you turn around and fight hard for a law that you're not willing to adapt to today's system, and now I'm talking in the first row about the opposition parties. We need to realize that we need to have stability in the market. If we are to have direct contact between the catching point and the buyer in the market, we must have stability around supply agreements. We also need to get rid of all the paragraphs, paragraph boats and paragraph adaptations of the world within the catch line, which means that we need to have a law and regulation that fills floors with bureaucrats just to fit the number of meters and feet in order to get a piece of legislation adapted to a system. The fishing industry must get rid of the heavy backpacks, it must be able to achieve the ambitions. In addition, we must help to get rid of the black paint concept we have stuck on the fishing industry, these crises we always talk about. It scares capital away from the industry. It's also one of the heavy backpacks we have to get away. I am pleased that the message has been given a broad welcome in Stortinget, and look forward to the further political follow-up to the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e256	The representative, Kristiansen, says he's happy that it wasn't a coastal community message, despite the fact that there's actually a lot of people who have been asking for a message where you look at the whole thing on the coast. Does not the Right feel the need to look at the industries along the coast in context, where both the fishing industry, the agricultural industry and all other industries are seen in context, where both transport and other conditions are brought into the debate on the overall situation on the coast? Today, for example, we know. that many important coastal businesses are hampered both by poor road standards and poor transport services, both in practice and in economic terms, which means that the cost of businesses is increasing strongly, while revenue is being greatly reduced. Does not the Right feel that it is time to present such a message? Will the Right help us find a way to look at the whole of the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e265	I respect Mr Arnesen's ambitions in this area. However, the Right will today cultivate the interests of fisheries policy, precisely because we are in a situation where we have the greatest challenges for Norwegian fishing industry related to the market situation. We have no market access, whether we are talking about the EEA Agreement, the 25 new EEA nations or the situation in the new trade legislation we get in the WTO. We have a persistent plagiarism of Norwegian salmon industry. This is because of the market situation. And we will simply lose the focus of the fishing industry, the potential of the fishing industry for the future, if we are to wash this out with the other policy areas of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e272	The representative Ivar Kristiansen is going to have the honor that he's still out there thinking loud and speaking about things that the government doesn't necessarily agree with him in. Today I understand that he is more on the party line, so I want to invite him to come back and operate with a little bit more height thinking. The representative Kristiansen is one of those who have been clear that the marketing of fishing rights is a development that we do not want, and that there is something that we really should not have in the Norwegian fishing industry. He's been clear about that in the media at a range of conditions, often combined with the embassy: but we don't know exactly what to do with it. I think there are several that should be so humble as to say that reverseing a development when one has deregulated a market is not just simple. Could the representative of Kristiansen intend to support the proposal for decisions by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre today, that we ask for a case in which one looks at the experience of the marketing of fishing rights according to the vessel quota strategy and what consequences it has had?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e281	There is no new situation that has arisen in the last four years, when we have been trading quotas at the fishing level. This is far from a new situation. I'd like to think that at some point we need to have a discussion about how we're going to push this forward. It actually opens up in the message to take some fundamental discussions. Among other things, the concept of ‘resource charge’ as such has been highlighted in the notification as an area to be explored in the future. But we have a law that says who owns the quota. It is also clearly stated in the position taken by the nutrition committee – with one lot as an exception – that it is the community that owns the resources. I have no faith that the Arbeiderparteiten, SV and the Zenterpartiet are particularly serious about what they write in the settings. A different approach had then been adopted, for example: in the case of Aker Seafoods’ purchase along the Finnmark coast, which has been applauded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e290	I could imagine following up where the representative Kristiansen now ended. It's true, as Åsa Elvik says, that Ivar Kristiansen flashes from time to time with very reasonable points of view. However, the problem for the Minister of Fisheries must be that, when he expresses these positions, the Government and the Minister of Fisheries usually go beyond what they stand for. Last, it was just in relation to Aker Seafood’s purchase in Finnmark, which I record that the representative Ivar Kristiansen has strongly accepted. How will Ivar Kristiansen handle this matter further in the future, and how does Ivar Kristiansen want the structure of the seagoing fleet and the fishing industry to be in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e299	The representative Enoch once again describes an image that really doesn't exist. Aker Seafoods is already listed. That formation of companies is in place. There is no kind of 'cross' attitude between me and the Minister for Fisheries at all. I think the picture that Enoch describes will always be a full opportunity through both the department and the directorate to change if someone who has granted rights does not follow up these rights through the laws and regulations that have been passed. I have registered that the policy pursued, including with regard to the last transactions, has received warm agreement and recommendation from a former reputable Norwegian Fisheries Minister. His name is Peter Angelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e308	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e311	I think St.meld. No 19 provides a good explanation of the situation in the marine sector. It provides a situational description of competition, that they can be difficult and challenging. It presents a description of the market situation, which is also a challenge for industry. I think it's right to focus on the consumer and on the market. Someone said that it is better to produce a product that is sold than to sell a product that has been produced. I think that's a lot right. That means that one might focus more on the market out there than on production. I also agree with both the case spokesman and to the extent that the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who says there is a great deal in the committee on objectives. I think most people are agreed on the painting, but we may be somewhat confused about the way to go. That's just how political life is. At least I'm overestimated that our way of walking is right. Our road involves a structured fleet and industry, a differentiated fleet and industry, and that the quota distribution that the industry itself has arrived at should be fixed. We also need the modernisation of the raw fish law, and we need the modernisation of the participation law. If the marine industry is to have a future, and if one is to gain the potential that lies there, I believe it is important that we turn our focus away from the fact that the fishing industry is to be a district policy to look at it as an industrial policy and development. If you do, a constant focus will be on the industry. And with an also focus on the market and on raising competition, on the consumer, the policy will focus on creating profitability in the industry. If one manages to create profitability in the industry, both on the sea and on the land, it's about creating jobs. Then it's about building new infrastructure, it's either road or tunnels and not least ports. When you focus on it, and you close it to creating a framework that makes the industry pay, what is the bonus? Well, the bonus is to secure the bus fare, turn the trend away from the coast and the districts. So you'll get a bonus that's good district policy. If we turn our focus around and start with the fact that we are primarily to take district policy into account in this industry, we will first and foremost be given the focus of maintaining the bus. We have to use a lot of different tools, including subsidies, to get to this. What we then get as a bonus is, in my opinion, a huge deal – we've seen enough of that – that goes bankrupt, and jobs are lost. We get closure and removal. There is a hallmark of today's policy, which has not been led by the Progress Party. There's never been a greater deportation from the district than when the Central Party put in government. This industry has enormous potential. Researchers claim that we can generate values for 250-300 billion dollars, 2002 dollars, in the future – every single year. But then we have to focus on industrial policy, then we have to focus on framework conditions. Now we don't take advantage of this. We are running forward with strong regulations, concession arrangements, restrictions, red tape, protection of our fjords and coastal areas through the salmon decision, which I think was an accident. All of this prevents the exploitation of the potential of the marine sector in terms of value creation in our country. I am, like the case-speaker, happy that there is a whole committee set up to increase the research effort, because I think that's what can make this industry profitable, and in business policy research is one of the most important things we do. We know that in the marine sector Norway is actually in the leading line on a world-wide basis, but we can get better. It's a goal that we need to increase the research to 3 pst. GDP. The majority of the committee wants the public part to make up 1 pst. and the private 2 pst. We in the Progress Party want a slightly different distribution. We're of the opinion that this is so important nationally that we should increase the country's share to 1.4 pst, while the private part is going to be 1.6 pst. Therefore, it is important that it is this research – several of us have within it – that it should focus on in the future. I also believe it is important that we maintain the research facilities that are along the coast today and that have made us world leaders in research when it comes to the marine sector. There must be new ones. Breeding is also an industry with high potential, part of the marine sector. There we also have the same blocking elements, such as concession system, tax system, bureaucracy – think if all business in Norway would be heavy with all these restrictions and concessions, etc.Oh, my God! At our discretion, it is enough to take care of the environment and veterinary problems and challenges. Then we can make this go further. We must not regard new species as a competition for conventional, common fisheries, but, in fact, as a supplement. That means we can deliver fresh fish to the market, because I think that fresh fish might be some of what we have to invest in in this country. That means we can deliver fresh fish all year round on the food tables all over the world, if we want. I have to go a little bit into fishing and fishing. Although we did not agree with the comment in the committee setting that it was a national resource, the Progress Party, in its comments, also states that this is a national resource that requires national government. But unlike some others, we actually realize that it's pure translatability, and we believe that one of the best ways to manage this, even nationally, is that one has a translationality. We must have a resilient coughing. We have to rebuild our populations so that they can last forever. Norwegian fishing industry is a tenant. And why? Well, because the Norwegian fisherman has been searching for something else by creating new things: bigger boats, bigger markets, new fishing gears, new fishing grounds. All of this has given us the fishing fleet that we have today. If we had followed SV's policy, and that's a add-on now, I see Norwegian fishing in the 1800's, where a single fisherman fishes with the woolwatts and the southwest in a spun hollow and with the string over the reef, while he has a hope that some fish will bite. There is no future, and that is not the way we are going to operate Norwegian fishing industry in the coming years. Therefore, it is so important that we allow Norwegian fishing industries to evolve in the right direction. We now have a unique opportunity to further develop a growth industry to something large and productive in the Norwegian economy. But I feel that, at least if we were to get a red-green government to the fall, we'd slip away the unique possibility. The time is running out, and the time is running out of us. We put important premises in this message. We're going straight, I thought, but it's going too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e343	I have listened with interest to the contributions of the representative, Solholm. I must begin by saying that I think it is worrying that such a large party makes a sharp distinction between fisheries and districts, when one knows what fisheries mean for coastal settlement. So to my question. The law of raw fish and the law of participants is perceived by the majority of the Stortinget, and by the majority of the industry, as important, and these laws are firm. The progress party sometimes says that these laws are to be modernised, sometimes they go further. What is the party's primary desire for these laws? Is it to get them off, on the same line as concessions and the other one in that party that will remove?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e350	We do not see a sharp distinction between the districts and the fishing industry. Far from it! However, by having the spotlight on business development and value creation, a bonus that one does not get about turning the search light over is that it is basically district policy that is the reason for driving business development. When it comes to raw fish law and participating law, I can say that yes, we had in time in our party programme that we should remove the participation law and the raw fish law, but we have changed that. What we're seeing now is that parts of the raw fish law are necessary and can be of good help to get nutrition development, because Norway is a little bit different than many other countries. The same applies to participation laws. We also wanted it removed once in time. We see that we may need a modernised participation law. We want to keep what has been the strength and the beam of Norwegian fishing industry, that is, the fishing eight fleet. That's why we've modernised our party program to get the design that's now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e359	We have repeatedly heard the representative Solholm say that we must focus on industrial policy and not on district policy. Fishing is an industrial policy. We have never heard the representative of Solholm tell anything about what regional policy measures in the fisheries industry he believes need to be removed. Now I would like to give Lodve Solholm the opportunity to tell us exactly: what is going on in the Norwegian fisheries policy, which is, today, regional policy measures, that need to be removed in order to get the fishing industry that Solholm wants? Who in the fishing industry is to be affected by the removal of these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e369	1 minute is not much time, but I could do one example. I think that if one had focused on industrial development and profitability instead of using political tools like throwing good money at bad companies, we might have had a completely different situation in some coastal areas in Norway than we have today. Enterprises that have not had the right to live have received state support. Then they have come into competition with companies that have our profitability, and the result is that both of them have gone bankrupt. Then the question is whether we are not using district policy tools incorrectly. If we had used industrial policy to make the fishing industry even more profitable, we might have closed down by saying that some of these companies that have gone bankrupt today had not gone bankrupt. Because we're going to take regional policy into account each thing before we pursue industrial policy, it's going wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e376	I thought it was positive to right that the Progress Party would not remove the Raw Fish Law and the Participation Law. That's what I thought they were in favour of. What I think might be interesting to the right of the representative, Lodve Solholm, is whether there are some concrete things in the law of participants and the law of raw fish that one think should be gone, since one thinks they need a modernisation. In what area does the Progress Party see very clearly that they want to modify or remove parts of this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e383	When it comes to participation laws, I can say that we see no reason why we can't open up a little more industrially-based fleet, as opposed to today. I don't see the big difference on a boat that has inherited the boat from its parents – the boat was fishing eight – that might be sitting in the riding office and drifting a fishing boat from there, but not active itself, and one that sits in an office in a factory that is close to the industry, driving the processing of fish product. So I don't see any difference here, even that company can have the ability to own interests in the fishing fleet to create something. But as I said, we want the fishing eight fleet to still be this berry column. We don't want paper transfer holders to be the owners of the fish fleet. We want activity, we want business development. I didn't get time to come in. I may come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e393	After four years of right-dominated government, we have what may be a general debate on Norwegian fisheries policy, and that is a bit of a funny situation. After four years of deregulation and liberalisation, we are further discussing the road for Norwegian fishing industry. I must say that I am pleased that there are some clear political differences in the setting, which I hope will make it easier for the voters to make a choice when the fall comes. Let me start by giving the case spokesperson credit for doing a very good job and facilitating an attitude that contains a lot of good politics. There are some obvious political differences, but also very much that the Committee shares. Then one might say that it is easy to get together about the fine words about how important fishing industry is, etc., and then my greeting is to the voters: don't listen to what we say, but look at what we do! Clearly, it is the political choices that have implications in the first place – these are not the fine words in the first place. This, for example, came about. expressed last night in the evening post, which had a big suggestion that bad rumors frighten the fishing students, while it is said that those who want to enter the fishing industry are not entirely allowed to do so. In this case, young people with higher education who do not quite find their place, may not want to enter the fishing industry, because the fishing industry has a bad reputation. It may be dangerous to think highly of a debate like this, but one might say that when things go bad, it becomes a drawing of the fishing industry, quite black. We can all be responsible for that, while there are, in fact, some developments at the macro level that make it possible to focus on and demand political action and will. And this I think is the biggest difference in Norwegian fisheries. We're the ones who want to get caught, we're the ones who want to do something when things move in a direction that we don't want to. And then it's they, who later speak was a very good example of, who think that this best arranges the market on their own. It is a very real political debate – it is a good political debate. The savings bank Nord-Noreg regularly presents its business cycle barometer for North Norway. They've just presented the spring barometer, and once again, these are macro numbers, these are not numbers for communities. We don't want to draw a black picture of our communities, but we want to look at the numbers at the macro level. Some of the ideas put forward by the Saving Bank are that the expected decline in unemployment has stopped, and that although there is increasing optimism in the Nordic business world, optimism is less here than in the rest of the country. It also applies to corporate owners. We also see that net migration from the continent has become much worse in recent years – that is, we have a situation where we have high economic growth without employment growth. And I think it's something that calls for political instruments. It calls for an active policy. Optimism is no science. I am sure the Council of State will say that now optimism is back in the Norwegian fishing industry — but optimism is no science. Obviously, you can ask business leaders whether they believe in the future, whether they believe the company will expand or not. Optimism is no science, but figures are science – net emigration, unemployment higher than in the rest of the country, which does not go down as expected. That's why I think we should help to draw a positive picture of the fishing industry for those young people with high education who are being scared away from the fishing industry. We have to do that absolutely, because the fishing industry is a future industry that has all sorts of possibilities. At the same time, we should point out when political choices are taken that do not help to get young people into the industry, as does the government, for example. permission to remove the permission and put Finko down, when the Government e.g. in the message, that the recruiting quota for young people is not current, because you are busy getting fewer fishermen in the country. There are some political choices that a do, and that are a negative signal. Instead, we are going to take action, and then we are going to be clear that the future of the fishing industry lies primarily in the possibility of connecting the informal competence – whether he is on the edge of the mermaid, whether he is on the fishing boat, or whether he is working on the fillet – with the formal competence that young people in these municipalities have in the eye they have been outside and are taking some form of education that the industry actually needs. In that link is future to the fishing industry. That's why I'm very pleased that a collective opposition is so detailed on how to visualize a value creation programme for the fishing industry, because it's such a political approach that can harness the link between formal and informal competence by giving the community an incentive to set that kind of development in motion. I started by saying that we have had four years of deregulation and liberalisation. The Minister for Fisheries must be in favour of taking a number of fisheries policy measures which are a change of pace in the Norwegian fisheries policy. I did not think of everything, but liberalisation in relation to rules on ownership concentration is one example. The last example that got the most attention was the suspension of the unit quota limitation in the marine fleet. The Council of State shall be in favour of having used its position to take this kind of political action. From the SV page, we have often asked for where in all the world the Stortinget is up in this. Why is the Storting not as willing to operate fisheries policy? Why are we not exploiting the potential we have to operate fisheries policy? I am very happy that the Storting at some points has actually come with a corresponding rate change in this setting. It's the debt, which the case-speaker was in, the royal crab quota, and it's about resource control – two things that SV has focused heavily on and suggest, but we haven't come anywhere. Now we see that the Storting gathers in relation to this. Surprisingly, a collusion asks the Government to come back with a recruitment quota scheme, contrary to the analysis of the message and what our councils have expressed. It is very gratifying that the Storting has the will to take hold. We have dealt with a few months ago the Riksrevision's inquiry into the fishing industry. The National Audit Office pointed out that there was not a complete match between objectives and instruments, and that the administration should perhaps ask more questions about whether the instruments implemented were consistent with the objectives. Or to put it straight: the goal has been to reduce the number of fishermen and the number of fishing boats for ten years. One has introduced a device such as a unit quota and a structure quota to achieve this. Nevertheless, the capacity of the fleet increases. Yeah, there'll be fewer fishes. Yes, there will be fewer vessels, but capacity will increase in the fleet. When we had the structural message for treatment, we pointed out that schemes that were already in place, like the unit quota scheme for the marine fleet, should be evaluated before one tried the same experiment in the coastal fleet. We didn't get through to it. We also didn't get a pass to figure out the consequences of this. I note that the Government says in the message that an evaluation of these arrangements is now required. I really look forward to that evaluation. If the goal and means of action are not consistent, either you get a formula about the goal, or you get a change in the means of action. I am very pleased that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have gathered on a proposal to get a case on the experience of the vessel quota regime when it concerns the transfer and transfer of allowances between different districts. As I said in a line before, this isn't easy. But when it is said from all politicians, perhaps with the exception of representatives from the Progress Party, that the translation of fishing rights is a development that we do not like, why in the world is the Stortinge not able to gather that one must get a case where we can discuss the consequences of it? I'm terribly happy that the three red-green parties have gathered around it, because it could mean that we have taken a step that could have some consequences if the voters gave us the form of action space. But I think it's especially that e.g. The Christian People's Party and the Left are not in favour of this proposal, with their recently adopted fisheries policy programmes. I again note that the Stortinget does not have the will or the courage to take the discussion about the distribution between the different vessel groups. We and the Center Party stand alone to ask to get a case on it. It's a political question. There is not a question for the industry alone. I find that it is too hard enough for the Storting to go into it. We're about to deal with the Aquaculture Act. I have therefore chosen not to talk so much about the farming industry, because that possibility comes back then. I take up the suggestions from SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e425	The representative of Åsa Elvik has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e430	The representative Elvik came up with the statement that ‘talks are science’. I can agree that numbers put together in the right way can become science. An exact science is that a company that doesn't make money goes bankrupt. On the coast, we've seen a lot of examples of that. This is now reversed. Now the companies in the fishing industry are making money again. We get a lot of feedback that there are now optimism and opportunities to run this industry again. Business demand is stable framework conditions, lower interest rates, lower taxes and market access. In this situation, SV is against the EU. Not only are they against the EU, but they want to enter into government cooperation with a party, the Centre Party, which is against the EEA Agreement and wants to terminate it. What is SV's contribution to the stable framework conditions for industry and the inputs that make it possible to recruit young people and women, as Åsa Elvik like all of us want to recruit into the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e436	I believe that I and the representative Voie can be some of the figures in the form of empiricals are a much more accurate science than it is to discuss politically whether there is enough optimism in the fishing industry or not. The representative Voie and I can also say that the existing companies in the fishing industry are vulnerable to exchange rates and interest rates and that they need stable framework conditions. There, this government has made it a virtue to say that it is their realization that we are now in such a fiscal situation that business benefits from it. We know that we're much more vulnerable to what's happening internationally than what it's always happening to the government. So, yes, of course, we want fiscal policy and otherwise we want business to have a stable framework. When it comes to market access, I'm talking out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e445	SV is part of a majority comment expressing concern that a significant number of knowledge-based enterprises have been sold out of the country in recent years and that therefore there is a need for offensive investment. They are also part of a majority who say that the country must have a significant commitment to building knowledge-based industry in the biotechnology and marine sectors. This is well and good, but I remember what SV has done in this period. The Government was given the power to shut down SND Invest, which was the best in the government agency in the marine sector. There has been no progress towards giving capital to Argentum Fund investment, which is also a success in the marine sector. One would not investigate so-called structural funds, which were supposed to act against the purchase from abroad of attractive Norwegian enterprises. So what will SV go into when it comes to a state involvement in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e450	The change of pace of the Progress Party in relation to the role of the State in the Norwegian business world opens up new conflicts, interesting conflicts, as the representative Hedstrom expresses here. As I said in the IT Fornebu debate, it's not that the state always makes sense. Being a follower of state involvement in business does not mean that one is united in all of the pluralities at any time. Funding in funds is, in the opinion of the Swedish authorities, a bad form of policy in relation to business. It gives little political direction, and it gives little effect. We have fought for the so-called district billion, which is a far better and far more accurate tool for the development of Norwegian business. And it's clear that using SND actively is the best tool in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e457	Today’s ‘Fiskar’ says: «Now everything is getting so much better Last year, the export value of Norwegian fish products increased by SEK 2.5 billion. So far this year, the export value has further increased by 13 percent. Exports of seafood from Norway were SEK 2.5 billion only in April this year.» When one hears Åsa Elvik's posts, one could think that everything looks dark and sad in the fishing industry, nothing happens. But the fact is that there's an enormous amount of positive happening, and it facilitates additional value creation. They're talking about wanting a political shift. Does this mean that exports are going down? Because it's a fact today that the value creation has gone enormously upward. His SV and drowns 50 years back – as it was then, so do we want it to be in the future as well? Is that SV's vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e471	I would like to draw a picture of the fact that the fisheries policy that the Christian People's Party legitimises that the Government is leading is dark, not that the development of Norwegian fishing industry is mainly dark, because it is actually quite complex – it is incredibly positive. We would like to say that the fishing industry is a future industry with many possibilities that can be triggered if we use the right tools. It is clear that there is a balance to point to developments at macro level while not wanting to be blackpainted. I don't think any politicians want to blackmail the situation. But it's a fact that coastal communities in North Norway have higher unemployment and greater emigration than other communities. It's a fact that we have to stick to. And then my point is that the fisheries policy that this government is conducting is that the jam is not light in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e481	The big news we are discussing today – Marine Business Development The blue field – describes the challenges facing the marine industry. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate a sustainable marine industry consisting of profitable and resilient companies with a high level of innovation and innovation. At the same time, the importance of a well-functioning, diverse and active business is a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of life and residence throughout the country. Marine industry in particular has been the basis for coastal settlement and industrial development. The fishing resources are a national resource. Norwegian fish represent a first-hand value of DKK 10 billion. Norway is the world’s largest producer of salmon and trout and is the leader in global research and technology in the field of aquaculture. Marine resources are involved in securing jobs and coastal settlements. The objective is to ensure long-term sustainable development from a socio-economic perspective. The Christian People's Party will place increased emphasis on the creation of local jobs both at sea and on land. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important to be aware of the recent recruitment of the fishing industry, because this should be better. The skills built up over time, combined with our proximity to resources and a long-term coastline, are the main competitive advantage of Norway for further growth in the marine sector. Norway has many active local communities with high professional competence in the maritime sector. The marine industries are becoming increasingly competent and capital-intensive. This has led to an increasing need to build sound professional and knowledge environments that are internationally leading in their fields. The proximity of resources gives an advantage to their management. Coastal workplaces and settlements are important to realise the high value potential in the sea — both today and in the future. This is important for those who live there today, but also for young people, who are the labour force of the future. Fisheries and aquaculture have become more a part of a global market with major competitive challenges. We need conditions and conditions that are competitive and enable us to better meet the challenges facing the industry. In this context, the Christian People's Party believes that the industry as a district policy instrument is more complex, and the consequences for the competitive situation are greater than before. The regional policy values of the industry are not less valuable for that reason. Fisheries and aquaculture are an industry that is strongly influenced by the economic cycle we are experiencing at all times. We saw this clearly when the interest rate was at its highest and the exchange rate was at its strongest. Today, the situation and challenges of the fisheries and aquaculture industry are characterised by changes in the international competitive situation and by a high level of Norwegian costs. At the same time, there are many opportunities, including: in product development and in having more fish processed in Norway. This is important for eating habits, while we see that there is a greater focus on the quality of food. Research in aquaculture and, in particular, targeting new species should be strengthened. There will also be a need for a link between research and innovation in industry. It is very positive that the Government will extend the Marine Innovation Programme and that the focus of a more comprehensive programme will be the development and testing of new seafood products, new farmed species including logistics and market interaction measures, the increased use of by-products and technology development. Norway has seven marine research institutes. These are important, and I'm glad that a joint committee underlines the need to maintain existing research stations. Our ability to combine our management of natural resources with knowledge and skills is central to creating new opportunities. This is particularly important in the marine sector because it is so research-intensive. It is interesting to read about the Government's commitment to research in the research report, St.meld. No 20 for 2004-05. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the industry itself is actively focusing on R & D through, for example: fiscal FUN and food-funded R & D. This seems to us to be measures and mechanisms that should be further strengthened in order to achieve the objectives set out in the Research Communication. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to establish an environmental perspective represented by, for example: productive marine ecosystems and a clean sea. This perspective is a prerequisite for triggering future marine value creation both in fisheries and aquaculture. Sustainability, on our side, is a crucial element in how we manage, harvest and use fish resources. The fishing industry, both on the fleet side and on the land side, depends on stable framework conditions. A predictable allocation of the total quota of different types of fishing between ship groups and a regulated access to participate in that vessel group are important prerequisites for the long-term planning of investments and operations. The Act on Deltas and the Law on Raw Fish is an important pillar of the fisheries policy, and I am glad that it is an almost collective committee that rings the rings around them. When we talk about the framework conditions for the fisheries and aquaculture industry, these will initially be marked by uncertainty, because the industry is based on biological harvesting and production that is inherently unstable. In addition, the industry provides uncertainty related to barriers to trade in key markets such as: The EU and the United States, represented by customs barriers and dumping complaints. In addition, the main products compete in an international food market characterised by different subsidy and sectoral interests. So the uncertainty is high at both ends of the value chain for the marine sector. Despite this uncertainty, conditions and conditions that are competitive and enable us to meet the challenges facing the industry must be pursued. And as I mentioned in the line change with Åsa Elvik, there's a lot of positive moves, and there's an increased value creation that's also happening here. Productivity in all industries has increased sharply in the post-war period, and in an industry based on the harvesting of a limited renewable resource, the efficiency increase becomes very visible. The consequence is that fewer fishermen and fewer vessels are going to take the same amount of fish. You could have both the same and the different, but that's a fact. Technological developments also make the fishing industry more efficient. The fishing fleet carries out a necessary, but painful, structuring process. It is therefore important that a universal service obligation be maintained for certain installations. The Government will assess, through a pilot project in cooperation with industry and the sales teams, how the framework for long-term agreements will be designed in different sectors of the fishing industry. The duration of the test project shall be two years and shall be evaluated. In the committee position, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have a note in which we welcome the introduction of a neutral mediation body which, in the event of conflict between the parties, can assess price and other business relations between the fishing industry and the fishermen. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear that we think it would be wise to start with prizes, gain experience from this, and then possibly extend it to other business matters. What's important to us is that all the parties go to jail to get long-term delivery contracts, and that they get real content. Let me make it clear that long-term agreements are not day-to-day agreements. Whether a long-term agreement is concluded e.g. 7, 14 or 21 days before the first delivery, are up to the parties to negotiate. We're not going to bother with that. And everything is going to happen under the Raw Fish Act. It's stuck, we haven't rocked it. The Sem Declaration states that the Law on Raw Fish is firm, with the aim of facilitating long-term agreements. Finally, what is alpha and omega for the marine industries is that Norwegian interests are being frontloaded in international negotiations, and that a job is for optimal market access for the export of fish and fish products. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the constant focus the Cooperation Government holds on these Norwegian interests, and I think there is reason to give tribute to the Fisheries and Coastal Minister Svein Ludvigsen for the offensive effort he has made continuously to ensure the industry market access in the different countries. I can see that many positive results have been achieved. The opposition tends to see what's hard, what's hurt, and what's challenging, while the co-operation government tends to see the challenges and opportunities. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e518	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e521	According to the media, fishing was a very topical issue at the Christian People’s Party National Meeting in April. I think it is good that such issues are on the agenda for the parties' national meetings. However, it also appeared that the national meeting raised some strong criticisms of the fisheries policy that the party has carried out in the last four years of government cooperation with the Right and the Left. The party’s national meeting called for a new course in fisheries policy, according to the media. What kind of changes will the party make in its fisheries policy with the background to the decision of the national meeting, and will some of these new things emerge in the present position?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e526	We had a good debate on fisheries at the national meeting in the Christian People's Party. I'm very pleased, and I don't want to say that this debate was a criticism of the government's policy – he wasn't. But one looks at some challenges and opportunities ahead that it's important to point out, both in terms of recruitment and universal service, and one wants to focus on the importance of facilitating more processing on the land, because there's an incredible value potential here, and here there's nothing bad about the Government. One thing that came up at the Christian People's Party's national meeting, which may be new within the fisheries policy, is that the party wants to eliminate the relapse of fishing. It could be an interesting distribution, and one of the reasons why it came up was the indication that the fish is a national resource, a national property. The game was unisoned against the regionalisation of quotas, but points out that the fish is a national resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e533	These are interesting tones from the Christian People's Party. We have seen through various media reports that the internal life of the Christian People's Party has not been as easy all the time in relation to the fisheries policy that the Government has led, and I have seen a number of resolutions from the County Council, especially in Northern Norway, which have been quite critical of the fisheries policy. That's why I also thought it was a pleasure to see some of the positions of the Christian People's Party at their national meeting. So talk to the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad about disposing of the reoccurrence of fishing resources, because the fish in the sea is the nation's common resource. Could the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad think of saying to the Council that he would vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre to obtain an evaluation on the table of how the vessel quota strategy has worked in relation to the movement and movement of rights between districts? It should be an easy way to start such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e541	First of all, with a relapse -- there's always a little bit of a bad time in these lines. The release operation was not limited to the fact that the fish were a national resource. He is today, regardless of relapses – we do not have a relapse today. But there were different implications that made it interesting to get this out. When it comes to that proposal in the configuration, I don't see any reason to vote for it, because it's part of what's going on that's being evaluated in the department. I don't see any reason to instruct the department to come up with a case about this now, but we're continually following some of the situations you're seeing. It is clear that here are the sides that I believe all of the batches seem to be challenging in relation to the price spiral that has been on the purchase and sale of boats with which the quotas are followed. But at the same time structural changes are needed, and it is important to listen to what the industry itself wants in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e548	I have a line for Molvær Grimstad. When people have nothing to do, they move. «Long-term agreements», she spoke of. Yes, but I have delivered on a long-term agreement – I guess I am the only fisherman in this room. So that's nothing new. Wages and salaries: Yes, but for whom is it to be profitable? Should it be for an AS, or should it be for a shark fisherman? If the shark fisherman finds it profitable to go to sea, how profitable it is! So the question is, who is it going to be profitable for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e553	The coastal party has seen, according to what I have registered, that there is a need for structuring. It's probably because one also sees that there's a lot of capacity in the fleet compared to the amount of fish. If the Coastal Party finds that there is a need for structuring, it is probably because one sees that there is a need to increase profitability in the industry. This is a process in which it has actually been very important from the Christian People's Party's side to listen to the actors in the industry. We have had different things out on extensive hearings, where the Fiskarlag, among others. has made a record, and the industry has had some important discussions, quarreling so the fillets faked, almost said, and has measured compromise and arrive at a deal. We think it has been interesting to listen to them, and everyone is excited that we have a profitable diet so that one creates a living life along the coast and living and good communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e558	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e561	The marine sector and the energy sector are probably the two areas where, as a nation, we have better prerequisites for being an international power than we have in any other area. Our major marine areas have given us great value to harvest through sensible management and skilled nutritionists, who have made fishing and aquaculture one of our most important industries. This has not come about by itself, and increased industrial development in this sector, which is the main perspective of the Single European Act, will only come through targeted and long-term efforts in an interaction between public authorities, business operators and local communities, and not least through interaction and cooperation with other nations on a trade regime with fair trade and acceptable market access objectives. The main focus of the Communication is ‘From a raw material perspective to a consumer and market perspective’, and already in the initial Communication several sensible and forward-looking target formulations for our marine industries can be found, but unfortunately it is not necessary to read more than a short section of the Communication before discovering that the instruments are the same as this government has prescribed throughout its four-year period. Particular attention shall be paid to measures for increased competitiveness and profitability through structural adaptations in fleets, aquaculture and processing. It is one of the two main issues to be in focus, according to the Communication, while also saying that the marine sector should have framework conditions that are as similar as possible to the framework conditions for other business. Such an approach to drug use is not surprising, but the more disappointing. The government's policy provides for greater capital ties and prioritizes those who have access to capital, rather than those who may have greater knowledge and ability to be innovative. It stimulates increasing quantities of each vessel rather than focusing on quality and freshness. There will be a reduction in the size of the industry and a structural adjustment in industry will in addition lead to an increasing distance between industrial plants, with consequences for both housing patterns and tourism industries, for example, and for the ability of the smallest fleet to reserve its products. The right to fish on a common resource will be concentrated on an ever fewer number of hands – not necessarily in those who are the most competent catchers or the most attractive innovators, but in those who are able to raise capital to buy rights. This policy has been blessed by the Progress Party – not surprisingly. After all, the Progress Party has programmed a fisheries policy that is moving in this direction. It is more surprising that the Christian People's Party and the Left have given their blessing to this development. The two parties have recently adopted party programmes at their national meetings which take a clear distance from the policy of their own government. Yes, even, as I have said earlier today, Right-wing Fisheries Commissioner, Ivar Kristiansen, has had far more headlines in the media during this period, where he is clearly taking a distance from his own fisheries minister than he is giving support to the same fisheries minister. In other words, because of the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Stortinget has set up a development in the fishing industry in which no one other than Svein Ludvigsen and the Progress Party agree. There is no reason to claim that the small units are not profitable and effective, as we might have heard in the debate here today, whether we are talking about the coastal fleet, the farming industry or the industry. On the contrary, there are innumerable examples of small ones running very well financially. They demonstrate their ability to be innovative and deliver first-class quality products. When both Ivar Kristiansen and Lodve Solholm have talked about the need to remove the heavy district policy backpack from the fishing industry, it is difficult to understand what they mean by this. Are the small ones going away — the small vessels, the small coastal fishing receptions, the small communities actually the backbone of the Norwegian fishing industry? In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is necessary to focus on Norwegian fishing industry, is an interaction and a strong public effort to promote high quality, which should not least promote increased yields and lower processing costs on fresh raw material. It is necessary to focus on all stages of the value chain, on capture, on processing, on the market, on equipment suppliers. In all these areas, we have the opportunity to have strong growth and a good development that will bring the fishing industry forward. But there must be a targeted investment with a significant element of state risk capital for research and an increased investment in resource control. And as has also been said in the past, it is absolutely necessary to evaluate the arrangements that this government has put in place in the current period, among other things. the tradable allowances scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e585	I have to say that I was somewhat surprised when I discovered that the centre part would be with SV on a note that the jet fleet would be phased out in ten years. Then I have to ask how the Center Party will defend this. In the largest agricultural municipality in More and Romesdal, Ørsta, such a policy will have consequences for the largest private business developer, the largest private workplace. The Trälarflätt in Ørsta kommune actually represents 600 – 700 jobs, and there is a very large labour force in relation to a municipality that has 10,000 inhabitants. How can the Central Party defend such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e590	The centre batch has not said that the trawl fleet should be phased out within 10 years. The centre batch has said that the factory jet fleet should be phased out within 10 years. It's something completely different. While it is quite obvious that local communities will be affected by such developments, it is undeniable that this fleet, despite the high level of employment in Ørsta, creates employment on land. It would be much better if the fishing resources added to this part of the trawler fleet were to come, for example. Coastal fleet for good. I am absolutely convinced that with the creativity and innovativeness – as it is so popular to say – as shown in the Moors and the Romsdals in all other contexts, it will be a narrow matter for healthy mornings to manage to create other activity in ten years, as a substitute for the loss of jobs within the factory jet fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e599	It is amazing that in today's debate, the representative, Mr Enoxen, takes time to talk about a disagreement that does not exist between the undersigned and the Minister for Fisheries. Drawing an image that doesn't exist doesn't make me realize that you choose to spend time on it. Has the representative, Mr Enoksen, heard Mr Bendiksen, the Workers' Party's Fisheries Commissioner, put the word market into practice in today's debate? Has the representative of Mr Enoksen heard the Swedish Fisheries Commissioner, Mr Åsa Elvik, talk about the market? Did the representative heard Mr Enoksen himself, in his speech, talk about the main content of the communication, namely the challenges in the market? Has the representative, Mr Enoksen, ever heard that party leader Haga has been concerned about the situation of the fishing industry when we talk about the ongoing WTO negotiations? In return, I am quite sure that he has heard that the former Minister for Fisheries, the Central Partyman Peter Angelsen, is well pleased with today's Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e606	To begin with, to correct a manifest misunderstanding: the Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy spokesman is Arnesen, not Bendiksen. It is possible that the representative Kristiansen says one thing in the streets and fights and something else in meetings with the Minister for Fisheries, but for those who are eager to listen to, for example. NRK Nordland, it has not been difficult to record relatively many comments from Ivar Kristiansen that have gone in a different direction from that of the Minister for Fisheries, because now at least not to take too hard. I noticed that Ivar Kristiansen was not present in the hall under my main post, but came in time to ask for a reply, but had the representative Kristiansen been present, he would hear that I actually started my post talking about the need for good market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e615	The President will point out that the delay was not as serious as it could have been. The representative did not say Arne Bendiksen. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e621	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Harald Arnesen, for a good job – and this time the name was right! Secondly, it is just to state that the Coastal Party shares his visions and concerns about the development of marine nutrition. Not only do I share the Committee's vision that Norway should have a living coastline characterised by a dynamic and sustainable business life with innovation and value creation, but this vision is the very platform for the Coastal Party. I am very pleased that an overall business committee suggests that fishing resources are a social resource that needs to be managed for the benefit of coastal settlement and industrial development. I am pleased that the Committee believes that it is a strength that the fishing industry has a structure that varies in size and that in each way they form the basis for a viable and living community. It's a fact that if people have nothing to do, they move. I am very pleased that all parties in the nutrition committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, indicate that the fishing resources are the property of the community and therefore the fishing rights cannot be privatised. I am also very happy that the setting refers to comments in Innst. O. No 55 for 1998-1999, where a unanimous nutrition committee states that: ‘The fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, jointly. Therefore, no individual or individual company may be granted exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge, while others are excluded from fishing.’» [[and serve]] I am very pleased that another majority, all except the members of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, then stated that 'it is important that the time limit applicable to the unit quotas be continued'. This was a lot of joy, but we can say that I can also be happy from this pulpit. I can't just be mad! The Coastal Party would like to thank the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, which notes that it is critical that the Ministry has abolished the time limit for unit quotas without presenting the matter to the Stortinget. It's a criticism we have to say our hearts agree with. It's one of the fans of the Coastal Party. In the light of this criticism from a majority of the Economic and Social Committee, it is highly critical that the Government will not present a case which will review the experience of vessel quota schemes in relation to transferable quotas and the transfer of allowances between districts. I have been very critical of Svein Ludvigsen's practice of the quota regime, which is in reality a turnover of allowances by the purchase of a vessel with allowances and sold back to the former owner without allowances. Against all technical advice, but with the support of the Progress Party, the Government has forced through a negotiable quota system, which many people with good reason call a run of the coast. The entry ticket for fishing has become so high that there is a high risk that the old link between active fishing and the right to own fishing vessels will be blown up. We've got a capitalization of the coastal fleet because of this. With that in place, the Government has removed the time perspective on quota rights and transferred the Community's property, the fish in the sea, to be permanently owned by individuals and companies and made the fish in the sea negotiable on the stock exchange. As I said, this is a policy the Coastal Party will liquidate. Fishing quotas must be more profitable than putting them on the market. We've experienced in the last few days that Aker Seafoods has its allowances on the stock exchange. Fishing rights are on the stock exchange! I am very pleased and fully support the majority of the Industry Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting a case in which one reviews the experience of the vessel quota system in relation to the translation of allowances and the transfer of allowances between different districts.’ So the question is who is it going to be profitable for, it's going to be for an AS, or is it going to be for individuals? I am also very pleased that a majority believes that ‘a programme for the renewal of the coastal fishing fleet should be established through cooperation between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry, Innovation Norway and the counties’. I am very pleased that the Economic and Social Committee has stated that the law on participation and the law on raw fish is to be enforced. It is also with great pleasure that the Coastal Party can record that a majority of the Industry Committee “considers that today’s tax burden on the fishing fleet is now quite extensive, and fears that an additional burden may have adverse effects on nutrition and have unintended effects on society”. This is a charging policy The Coastal Party has focused on and needs to be changed. The Industry Committee also believes that recruitment quotas for young people are important, which we in the Coastal Party are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e657	For the sake of order, the President will confirm that it is entirely permissible to be happy in the pulpit, provided that it does not become a habit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e660	We are living in tension between, on the one hand, the enormous potential for the development of economic activity in coastal communities and, on the other, the recognition that the strongest decline in the population has been in coastal districts, especially in North Norway. The Labour Party therefore believes that there is a need for a new and comprehensive coastal policy. The Labour Party believes that a three-part approach must be adopted. Firstly, we need to strengthen the basis for new developments through increased commitment to skills, increased commitment to innovation and industrial development, and increased commitment to better communication provision. Secondly, we need to create new jobs through a massive effort on the economic advantage of the coast in terms of fishing, oil, shipping and travel. Thirdly, we need to put an extra effort into the most vulnerable areas. Through a massive effort on fisheries, petroleum, maritime and tourism, the Workers' Party will make the coast a driving force for national value creation. It will contribute to interesting jobs and more stable settlements in coastal areas, and it will contribute to funding the welfare community. However, coastal industry opportunities are not triggered by the market alone. Developments need to be made in an interaction between industry and the state, and the ring-fence must benefit the entire coast, not least in the areas where the resources are located. Nor is it solved by the market alone; the state must have the will to govern development. The Labour Party believes that we need to put in place a national strategy for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry based on our advantage of access to high-quality fresh raw material. It is necessary to facilitate the active development of the aquaculture industry. We have to have the ambition that Norway will be the world's leading maritime nation. Therefore, marine research must be a high priority, together with increased efforts in product development and increased market intervention for Norwegian fish products. The Labour Party believes that we need to make a national commitment to the development of the industry. We want a renewal of the coastal fishing fleet. As part of a strategy based on fresh raw material, we believe that the supply of fresh raw material must take priority over the supply of raw material frozen at sea. We must have a national commitment to the fattening of fish and to the rearing of new species by substantially increasing the funding for research. We also need to trigger opportunities for breeding by establishing a State guarantee scheme for operational credit for innovation projects in the breeding of new species. Through such interaction, we will have a more streamlined supply of raw materials to industry, a smoother utilisation of investment in industry, a more balanced employment and a more even supply of products to the market. At the same time, we need to strengthen our confidence in the market by requiring quality certification, increasing research into market and product development, and we need to strengthen the industry by establishing a state investment fund for the marine sector that can enter into interests in the breeding and processing of marine products, including marine biotechnology. This is something other than the right-wing government’s desire for the market to steer development. The clearest contradiction we see is equally full of the Progress Party. I hear now that the Progress Party will make itself more edible in coastal areas by failing to formulate what they really stand for. But in the Progress Party programme for this large-scale period – which is still in print and not just in the intended version – we see what the Progress Party proposes: the removal of the participation law and, at best, the weakening of it – as Solholm said in the past industry, the vessels themselves shall own free fishing for vessels below 35 ft the restriction on vessel size; the State shall auction off the quota for the withdrawal of the raw fish law; It is a policy for an industry that is completely market driven. The strongest straight shall be raw. But it's also an industry without a government and a public exposure. This is a new and different coastal policy. It is a fundamentally different coastal policy than the Labour Party stands for, but it is also a policy for a fundamentally different coast than the Labour Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e705	Now I was not able to see the great contradictions between innovation, research, competence and innovation that the previous speaker made here, which would, as a matter of fact, create a distinction between government – and Right – policies and the Labour Party's policies. On the contrary, what this big message is full of, and which permeates it, is, in addition to market access, just innovation, research and competence as the basis for driving the Norwegian fishing industry forward, and for driving the development of the industry so that money can be made in the future. It is a fundamental factor for all industrial developments in Norway today, and perhaps above all important for the fishing industry. It's per. There is no problem today to pick up the last fish from the sea. We have a technology that allows us to fish more and more, with fewer fishermen available and with fewer boats. This has been happening since the last world war, and cannot be attributed to the last four years. But that being said, we also have a tradition that the fishing industry has been innovative, has taken on board new developments that are coming, both nationally and internationally, have fished for new resources, have developed new technologies and introduced new technologies once they have been available, have fished in new areas and have entered new markets with new products. What is special, and I think the big message is well focused on, is that we are now facing a paradigm shift in Norwegian nutrition development and Norwegian industry in many ways, where we have to – to put it simply – put more intelligence into every product, in order to compete with the products we are going to sell in a national, international and global market. It is a great paradox that some of those who say that they have an alternative fisheries policy are those who are most opposed and in part will hinder the small market access we already have in relation to the largest markets for Norwegian fisheries. I want to use the aquaculture industry as an example of what has happened to innovation and competence-driven industry. Early in the 1970s, researchers and nutritionists said that it was not possible to breed north of Trøndelag. With good research, with good knowledge, we have come to the conclusion that we can operate aquaculture across our long-range coast, from Lindesnes in the south to Kirkenes in the north. Another example of what has happened in the aquaculture industry based on research and development of competences is fish health. Some years ago, tons of antibiotics were used to produce the fish we were going to sell in the international market. With good research, with good knowledge development, we now have an industry that is virtually totally free from the use of drugs. It has come up with fish species and fish populations that do not need to be afraid of a number of diseases, both contagious and others, that were previously in this industry. In addition, new species and opportunities are being continuously explored, and not least new technologies, which are themselves becoming an export article for Norway, where we can not only export fish and technology, but also where knowledge export becomes an interesting commodity. The Communication also focuses on the organisation of industrial R & D activities, with headquarters in Tromsø. I think it's extremely positive that it's now taken action to get even more out of all the millions of dollars we put into research in this area. I just want to say for myself that we still need to be open to the good ideas, the good initiatives, the personal initiatives, being very important, independent of the organisation to carry out research in this area in the future, and that we need to see fisheries and aquaculture research in the context of all the other research we do, and not least the political leadership we carry out both through the research communication, through the regional communication and through the communication on culture and industry, in this area. In conclusion, I would like to say that the development in which the fishing industry is now involved, where once again there are opportunities to make money in the industry, where it is shown that we are doing good, and where we are also using new skills and new knowledge, is helping to make the industry more attractive to the young people of tomorrow, and not least to the women of tomorrow, who are totally dependent on whether we are going to have both housing and employment in the coastal communities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e722	I am very pleased that the pessimism industry was wrong when the government took over, now has turned to optimism. The key has been profitability and value creation. I am pleased to note that the Committee broadly agrees with the reality presented by the Government in its communication, as the rapporteur explained. The representative Elvik said this is a general debate after four years with the Right in the Department of Fisheries and Coast. I am pleased with the answer she herself just gave that ‘there is an incredible amount of positive’ in the Norwegian fishing industry. I am also pleased to note that the bulk of the population has largely endorsed the proposals, the road choices and the measures we have announced. The notification focuses on the market, which is vital to the value creation along the coast, and thus the settlement along the coast, as the representative Kristiansen underlined in his line exchange with the case rapporteur, and which several speakers have been very concerned about today. We place great emphasis on globalisation and the need for industrial conversion as a framework for coastal settlement, stressing the need for the development of framework conditions that make industry internationally competitive and profitable. I am pleased that the Committee shares the Government's view on the need to shift the focus of fisheries policy from a raw material and catch perspective to a consumer and market perspective. The reorientation gives reason to talk about a fisheries paradigm shift — such a shift is a break with an accepted pattern or basic vision. In the fisheries policy, the predominant basic vision has focused on the primary stage, on production, i.e. on fishing, and eventually on farming. The government is now building on an overall value chain perspective, and it is reversing the fisheries policy by basing itself on consumers and customers in the market. The consideration of the primary stage, of fishermen and breeders, and thereby the pattern of residence, are not sacrificed in any way. It is firmly anchored in the new perspective of the Government, as also the representative Solholm so strongly underlined. The consultation organised by the Business Committee clearly confirms that not only the Storting but also the Research Environment and other environment support the description of the reality of the Communication. In the extension of this, I have to add that much of the criticism that I registered just after the message was submitted has been muted. The Committee's position also shows that most now agree with the broad lines of the future fisheries policy. It is also gratifying to note that the Committee agrees with the Government's marine vision and with the need for targeted public investment, in particular through the focus on research. The vision points to the need for the development of a sustainable marine industry, consisting of profitable and resilient undertakings, which also implies capacity adjustments. To a greater degree of innovation and innovation, the industry needs to bear the responsibilities of the discriminating party that it has. It is also such that the vision points to the need for the development of a marine industry which, together with other industrial activities, contributes to the development of robust and viable coastal communities, an industry capable of competing in the international market. That there is a broad consensus about reality and vision tells me that there is consensus also about the importance of industry for housing, national economics, etc., and the potential for value creation it represents. After some difficult years we see that April this year is a record month in terms of exports, and I think we should be happy about that. It is also a result of the economic policy pursued by the Government. For all of us, not least for the industry, it is important that this is not a sleep cushion, but a trace of renewed efforts to increase value creation and to boost performance. This requires that we get more profitability out of every kilo of fish. That is why we focus on research and development, and we need to identify and develop new raw material sources. We need to develop new markets and fit into new market segments. That is why the Government is so strongly committed to the WTO, to free trade agreements, and to solving the current problems we have in the EU, etc. We need to develop a business structure that is flexible and adapted to the structure of our main markets. Therefore, the Government is concerned that we need structural adjustments and capacity adjustments that allow the industry to have a profitability, and that we use the resources that are. The marine innovation programme we have announced, I see broad support. It is also strengthened by the research communication submitted. And I would like to remind you that the regional communication is also an important element of the entire district policy of the Government, where the fisheries policy is one part, but no more – more must be involved and bear. That is why I believe that the message that has been submitted has the right perspective and focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e755	One of the most controversial issues in the Norwegian fisheries policy has long been the decision of the Council of State to abolish the time limit for unit quotas. It was alarming that the Council of State took such a decision without presenting the matter to the Grand Duchy, having regard to the fact that the majority of the Grand Duchy has previously stated that: ‘it is important that the time limit applicable to the unit allowances is continued’. I notice that a majority of the Business Committee today says that: ‘it is critical that the Ministry has lifted the time limit for unit allowances without presenting the matter to the Stortinget’. At the same time, I record that the government parties do not propose to confirm the decision of the Council of State. There is reason to point out that the proceedings of the Committee have resulted in a majority having promoted such an observation. Is it convenient for the Council of State to have implemented a decision which he is criticised for not having submitted to the Storting, particularly in a situation where one of the government parties, through its proceedings at the national meeting, has clearly questioned whether this is the right way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e772	I would remind you that the majority of the committee is a minority in Stortinget. A majority in the UK has made it clear that we support the change we made to the sea fishing fleet, a change that is entirely in line with what the coastal fleet has been offered in the past. Then I feel that the Workers' Party is criticising me for facilitating the structuring of the sea fishing fleet. They criticise me for changing the arrangement that every shipping company can have nine or seven allowances. The amazing thing is that we are opposed to the instruments, but we are very pleased that we have started the fishing industry in Finnmark by allowing Aker Seafoods to use them. So I'm a little overstated that you're against the tools, but you're very satisfied with the result. It should at least be admitted by the Workers' Party that, yes, it was necessary for this government to force – with support from the Stortinget – changes in these two areas in order to start operations in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e781	I am pleased that in the vote, the Government imposes – in the negotiations with Russia – on increasing the extraction of royal crabs, and that the majority ask the Council of State to change the legislation so that one can take out hocabs, and that one sheep, as one else has in Norwegian fishing, has a draft ban. The King's crab has become a problem after all, we've realized that with time. To perhaps increase the extraction of crabs, I wonder if the Council of State has aired or discussed, or is willing to air and discuss, whether to move from a quota system to take out kilograms. One might get a slightly different output, and one might want to take out more crabs because it's interesting how many kilograms you can sell, that one doesn't just take the larger one, like one does now, because there's the more kilograms. Well, that's the kilo price that counts when you're going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e788	The King crab is a concern for many, but also to great joy for many. I remember that this government opened up commercial fishing, and that has made us have a revenue from the first-hand turnover of the fishermen of the order of 90 million. SEK – 100 million. kr per year - a not insignificant increase in the income base of fishermen, among others. in East Finland. This government opened up commercial capture, but we are dependent on a treaty with Russia. We manage the crab, just like we do with the cod, in common, and that makes us unable to accommodate ourselves. That is why there is no contradiction in the Committee's requests, and what has been our ambition, namely to increase the number of crabs for withdrawals in each year's negotiations. This government has succeeded, as there has been a dramatic increase in the number of crabs taken out. If we are to be able to pick up female crabs all year round, and if we are to open up, as some would like, free fishing for some boats, it is clear that there must be quotas. It would mean a reduction in the income of those who have made this a living, so it could also hurt to do so. In the case of off-takes per. Unit and per unit kilos, it's per. paragraphs we have negotiated, and I imagine we will do so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e800	It's been three years since the Stortinget asked the Government to come back with an agreement on a recruitment quota scheme in the fisheries sector. So the answer came three years later in this big message, which says that since one wants to reduce the number of fishermen and fishing vessels, there is no room for a recruitment quota scheme in the fishing industry. State councils have also benefited and rhetorically said that in what other industry it is so that young people can only enter and establish themselves with their own business — let the youth start as a crew on another man's boat. Now the Industry Committee says that they think it is important to have a recruitment quota system, so that young professionals can try themselves as fishermen on their own boat – the short and simple basics for us to want to recruit for the fishing industry. It is likely that today it will be agreed that the Storting asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a model for a youth recruitment quota scheme. Does the Council intend to do so, even though he has the opinion that he does not really want to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e807	It's not going to get past, and many of us have agreed, that the industry is facing a major challenge in recruitment. A study by the Technology Council a few days ago is discouraging reading that this industry is not attractive to young people. This week I have been in contact with Olaf Grande, a youth of 15 years – a fellow from Lødingen – who has been aware that he will be a fisherman. So there are people who want to. Then we have to make it right. But I guess it won't be that young people in general should try to become fishermen, by being allocated a quota and investing in a boat, in order to be able to stand out. There are challenges here. We had a Document No. Eight proposals for treatment in Stortinget, which were designed to facilitate the allocation of a quota to young people until they were 24 years old, and then they had to withdraw it. It's a system that won't work, because you don't get boats funded. But I'm going to challenge the industry to figure out how to arrange a system of recruitment quotas. I notice that Stortinget also has no suggestion on how this should be done, because we admit that this is difficult. But we're going to try to find new arrangements, so that we can get recruiting, also for fishing boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e814	Let me first take the opportunity to record the proposal of the Centre Party, which is included in the vote. Aker Seafoods is now a listed company and is well in control of something like that as a third of the total trawler fleet's share of the Norwegian cod quota. My first simple question to the Minister for Fisheries is: How much foreign ownership does the Minister for Fisheries think is acceptable in such a listed company as this – how much of the Norwegian cod quota is going to be on foreign hands? The second question is: how much of the total cod quota does the Minister for Fisheries think it makes sense to give one company control, and then I think about any future purchase of other trawlers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e821	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e826	And there's a lot of ways to do this. It is also correct that Aker Seafoods does not have more than approx. 9 pst. of the cod quota, so that it somehow becomes a slightly less dramatic figure than by calculating only part of the quota base as the basis for it. Once we have agreed that Aker Seafoods will take over the trawls – it is the trawls that are in a way what we control – it is because this was previously an industrial part of the fleet, so there has not been any transfer of a fishing gear part of the fleet to industry. On the other hand, we have just said no to the transfer of a fishing gear fleet to industry. And then we have some constraints on seven quota shares per. installations or nine per. group, so there are already restrictions, restrictions that were necessary, it turned out when Aker Seafoods took over Westfish and Nordic Sea. I see that along the coast there is great satisfaction that a serious company, which has shown that they think long-term and get it into Finnmark and Lofoten, is now getting a larger share of Norwegian fishing industry, for the benefit of the districts and for the benefit of the value creation in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e833	I am aware that the Stortinget has given authority to the ministry to exercise authority, but fishing is being carried out as a matter of urgency in the ministry. For example, the fisheries agreement was terminated, as a document No. Eight proposals. Governments have obviously been busy. It does not testify that he intends to sit in the next growing-up period, when you are so very busy. So the question is, why is fishing business being carried out as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e838	Firstly, the Government does not promote Document No. 8 proposals, nor did we do it in connection with the termination of the fisheries agreement. We have continued the instruments of the fisheries agreement, and I think the industry should be proud that it has made itself free of subsidies. An industry that received DKK 2 billion a year in transfers 15 years ago is currently free of subsidies. I think we should be happy about that. Secondly, the situation in the industry has been in a hurry to bring about a new framework for industry so that profitability is improved and that young people seek their way back to the industry, whether for the fishing boat, to industry or to other tasks and to other parts of the industry. So having it busy is important. So by taking a good time, you can risk the cow dying while the grass grows. I've been trying to figure out solutions, solutions that get increased digestion, which we now see yield profitability, provide employment, provide innovation. I think we should be happy about that. That is why, in general terms, the Committee has also endorsed the proposal proposed in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e847	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e852	The blue field is for some of us not so far up in the Barents Sea and North Norway, but it is largely confined to the east coast and the south coast. There, too, are industries. A small industry, but a traditional industry, has just been lobster fishing. For many years, there has been considerable concern about an ever-decrease in resource availability. This has been researched, and I know some of the research results. I have also seen in practice how it has become less lobster available. In the opinion of the fishermen, there has been a clear trend towards improvement in the last few years, but there has been a lack of certainty about the reasons for this. An obvious problem has always been that illegal lobsters are being fished during the rescue period. Then you've pointed out two things: one is that frogmen pick, and the other is that you put tendons or yarns at depths that make you get lobsters. There have been conservation provisions that say that non-registered fishermen cannot set lobster ponds shallower than 25 metres in the conservation period, from 1 January until the end of September. I haven't seen any new rules in this area, but there are rumors in the fishing community that there are new rules that say that from 1 May on. the depth determinations for non-fishers have been lifted. After all, fishermen have been able to scratch the depth they wanted before, while recreational fishermen have had to walk 25 metres. This limit of 25 meters has now been lifted, and in addition, local surveillance has been removed. This fear will lead to an enhanced consistency with the reduction of the population. I wanted, if it was possible for the Council of State, that he made such a little feedback from this problem, because there are some concerns about the East and South coasts related to the provisions on lobster fishing. I know you've also set the minimum measure to 25 cm, and I don't think there's anyone who has anything against it, if only everyone would comply. But that's what you're afraid not to do, because of lack of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e861	If we mean something about the recruitment of skilled young people who are interested in fishing, we must have a system in the fishing industry that attracts them, and not a system that makes those who are already in the industry into millionaires for their rights from the state. I am very pleased that more members of the Business Committee state that the Government must allow a substantial increase in the annual withdrawal of wave whales. I am pleased to note that this is in line with the recommendations of the researchers. The Nutrition Committee has met the desire for more money for cooperation between enterprises and research and for the exploitation and sale of products from marine mammals, but I am disappointed that the Government and the majority of the Committee will continue to maintain the plan for salmon fjords. The coastal party believes that the proposals in the new aquaculture law do not address the major challenges for the farming industry. Fisheries and aquaculture are one of our most important industries, yet the Council of State is running all fisheries matters as a matter of urgency, without carrying out the evaluations requested by the Stortinge. Now the odelstings proposition about changes in the marine regime comes, as well as that, at the tamp of this session. Also within this area, the government has been running forward with regulations without full coverage in law, and then they come nagging afterwards to obtain the legality of the regulations afterwards. I remind you that there will be a new big deal after the election. The evaluations that the Government has not been willing to provide for this increase can be carried out as a public inquiry at the request of the next majority. That's what the Coastal Party is going to go in for. The proposal for a new aquaculture law bears the mark of saving the big companies out of a hen farm. Access to the transfer and pledge of permits to increase access to the capital of the industry and to improve the adaptability of enterprises can be interpreted as a desire for free movement, which will increase the value of the facilities and, in particular, of the premises. The phasing out of special ownership regimes in order to increase the commercial flexibility of the industry and the better adaptability of the enterprises may mean that the concession scheme itself is sought to be eroded or abolished. This is a development the Coastal Party is against. We are also opposed to the fact that the major banking interests in Norway will be guided by the development of the Norwegian farming industry as directly as they do. The banks themselves were responsible for their poor investments in Norwegian breeding, and this must be taken into account. The coastal party cannot accept the provision for more sales of large Norwegian breeding companies to foreign investors or funds. The breeding industry represents large natural resources. The coastal party says no that it will be easier for foreign investors to take over larger parts of the Norwegian fjords, so we fear that the new aquaculture law will add up. The Coastal Party wants the Petroleum Fund to be used to buy shares in the listed companies that are breeding in Norway and to restructure the companies in the long term so that the concessions become available again for sale to Norwegian citizens, who can form smaller, more profitable and more innovative breeding companies. The coastal party believes that the centralisation of banking services and banking has led to the fact that North Norway has in fact been without effective banks for periods. We want Norway’s Bank and Innovation Norway to become an active part of the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e880	Let me first make it clear that I do not agree with the Council's assessment that the changes that have been made are necessary prerequisites for getting activity in Finnmark. That, however, was not what I was going to comment on. The Council of State clearly considers that the majority of the Committee's comments expressing criticism of the conduct of the Council of State are not serious, since the majority of the Committee does not reflect the majority in the Grand Chamber. I also record that the Council of State claims that the majority in Stortinget has agreed to his changes. Then it is natural to ask: When and in what case has a majority in the Grand Duchy given consent to the action of the Council of State in the form of decisions? If there are no such decisions, the next question will be: Where in this setting does the Council of State find that parties representing a majority in the Grand Duchy have formulated such a commitment to his actions? I can't find it. If there are no such comments in this setting, the next question will be: is there any wording in other settings, any comment, where parties representing a majority in the Storting are formulating similar support? Or is it not just that such aid is never formulated — neither in the form of a decision nor in the form of a comment? If parties representing a majority in the Grand Duchy consider that this is not critical, why have they not made any proposal – in this case or in another case – where they join the government's course of action? They do not even have a comment in the position where they join the Government's actions and where they address the criticism expressed by a majority of the Committee. The Council of State itself has a background as a major representative, as a committee chairperson and as a member of the Presidency of the Stortinge. I assume that he immediately understands that it is quite perceptive, especially in view of the fact that his action contradicts previous remarks and the assumptions expressed by parties representing a majority in the Grand Duchy. I therefore find good coverage for the committee's statement of criticism of the way in which the Council of State acted. I understand that this issue can also come up for treatment in the Storting Control Committee, in connection with other issues that are being treated there. The Council of State may consider getting better back coverage there than it might have been during the treatment of this or any other case. I believe that the criticism is very relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e896	I'm a little surprised that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen thinks it's remarkable that I'm stating that the majority of the committee is a minority in the Stortinget. That's what I've fixed. And I have established that the principle was clarified in connection with the structuring of the coastal fleet. In this respect, I have also recorded that the majority of the Storting has had no objection to us making an adjustment for the sea fishing fleet – which deals with a small part of the fleet – while the other part of the fleet has the scheme. To the Bastisen, who was in the field of recruitment: I remember that we have a youth quota. We've made maximum efforts to get profitability, so that the lotteries get bigger, and that there'll be good and safe jobs. That's what's going to be crucial for young people to choose the fishing profession. Through the Finnland model, we have secured the smallest fleet an operating base, so that today I can say with great boldness that I am the best friend of the chess – meaning that the smallest boats now have a slightly larger quota than the boats that are a little longer. And so it's the buyer and the seller who decides the price of a vessel. I have registered that some of those who push up prices have criticised me for their high prices. It is even the case that someone criticises me for selling them dearly to their own sons. It is in a way wrong to criticise the authorities — when it is a free market that determines the price. Then to lobsters. We made a new regulation of the lobster regulations, with a new regulation. We recognized that the fishermen were very dissatisfied with this. They thought it meant a weakening of the protection of lobsters. That is why we have seized the fact that we have gone back to the old regulatory regime. We've had a working group consisting of representatives from the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate review lobster management and look at how we can get maximum protection. And we're strengthening control through the presence of the Fisheries Directorate along this part of the coast. That's what we've done, and we've taken inwards that from the fishermen's side you want to take better care of the lobster than what we obviously managed to do through the first regulation. This is the answer to the question from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen. In the end, I just want to say that someone has thought that the opposition has announced a political change through its position, and that these are dramatic proposals they have made. I'm not sure I'm quite able to find these suggestions. I shall, of course, follow up what the majority in the Grand Duchy has in its comments, and the decisions that are. Otherwise, it's interesting to read page 6 in the Fisherman's Monday May 23rd. It is clear that the opposition is demonstrating a ‘full crack’ in the fisheries policy. It's an interesting observation of those outside the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e913	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e916	What is alarming is the lack of formal consent to the action of the Council of State. The Council of State says that the majority has nothing to do with his actions. Where is the location in this setting? There is not a single word about it in this setting, nor in any other settings presented by the Committee. At best, therefore, it can be said that the Council of State has been tacitly accepted. However, a tacit acceptance is a relatively weak support in a situation where a majority of the committee expresses such a sharp criticism as that expressed in today's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e921	I thought this round that Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen is trying to draw up the debate is strange. It's not like when we make an attitude, that there are comments in absolutely every area to show that we're some of the governments that we're representatives of, in the policy that's being pursued. If it can calm down Schjøtt-Pedersen, I have no problem saying that when it comes to what has been done, the Christian People's Party as one of the government parties has been involved in the process. We are fully committed to what has been accomplished. We don't think it's necessary for those who make up the plurality of the committee, but not in the room, to criticise anything. It's not that a write comment in the cabin and weather to show that we're disunity in the criticism from the opposition. This is a matter which has been discussed and which we think is important. We have noticed that the opposition criticises the measures. One sees that there is a positive development and sees the need for structuring, but one will not be involved in taking responsibility for what means and solutions you need to have in order to achieve a sensible development within the industry. So if it can calm down Schjøtt-Pedersen: It's from the government party's side full of excitement about what the government has seen in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e932	I must also agree with those who say that the spectacle that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is now presenting shows that we are now approaching a election campaign where almost everything is allowed. Let it be said immediately: I have full confidence in the Council of State. I've backed him up officially, and I've been accepted by the bulk of the Progress Party to say that there's no problem for us that the Council of State did what he did when it came to abolishing the time limit for the unit quota system. I thought it was a totally natural follow-up of what Stortinget, including most of the parties, did when it applied to the coastal fleet. It was about doing the same thing for a small part of the fleet as what we had done for the rest of the fleet. A fishing right has now been granted. There isn't anything called eternal quotas. One has received time-independent quotas, one of which has the right to fish under certain conditions, which one must have completed in the year of operation. I can't see that this is a problem. But I understand, of course, the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen's need to correct a little bit of what he had problems with at the national meeting of the Labour Party, when he did not get an impact on regionalisation. That is to say he has received it, because he has increased the district quota to 10 p.m., and – as he said in a debate in Kristiansund – it should be activated if the red-green option has multiples. Then we'll have regionalisation. Perhaps the representatives of the Labour Party who come from More and Romesdal should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e941	Just for the sake of order, so that the error should not be allowed to break in the hall, I can confirm it as the representatives Molvær Grimstad and Lodve Solholm now underlined. If it is not unworthy, I think it is completely unnecessary to end today's fisheries debate by trying to use words as ‘awarely awakening’ about the criticism that the opposition is making in the comment today about the concept of a time limit for unit quotas. It's never been like this, nor in Schjøtt-Pedersen's own committee, that you do some kind of reverse evidence, and in the form of a note, you write pages up and down about everything you agree with what's in the notice, and that's the current policy. It's never been like that. It's not like that, and it's never going to be like that. One should perhaps stop reacting when these adjectives from Schjøtt-Pedersen appear again and again, and there is inflation in words like ‘sight-waking’. It would have been alarming – of course – if there had been a hint of truth in what Schjött-Pedersen addresses. But not one word of what he says is correct. Everything is within the prerogatives of the Council of State. Naturally, the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen knows that well. But it obviously spices the way home in such a debate as this. We're going to have a certain understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e950	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e966	I will be brief, as most of what is referred to in this document has been subjected to quite extensive treatment in the different groups in the Stortinget. In particular, it concerns the committee structure of the future accumulation and the development of the questioning institute. In both of these areas, a sample has been launched that has submitted proposals to the Presidency, and sample work has also been published in public documents. It has been a comprehensive treatment. In these two areas, I would just recommend the proposals that the Presidency is making here. However, with regard to the Rules of Procedure Committee and the work of the Committees, I think it should be mentioned a little further. The Presidency has wanted to activate the Rules of Procedure Committee to be a driving force, together with the Presidency, in facilitating the work of the Stortinge to proceed as quickly and as fully as possible and to be as robust as possible. In the past, the Rules of Procedure Committee has been largely a committee which allocated various chapters to different committees in budgetary work, but we want this to be a committee, chaired by the President of the Stortinge, who is actively involved in the development of the work of the various committees. Why have we seen the need for this? Well, precisely because over the last few weeks of this ageing period, we have seen that it tends to accumulate, a tendency to accumulate work towards the end of the year. Thus, in a number of important areas, the issue is not debated properly in the Grand Duchy until a decision is taken. We want to distribute the work as best we can throughout the year. Of course, most issues from the Government, both for natural reasons and for other reasons, come too late for the Storting, and that the pressure on the labour market thereby becomes hard towards the end of the period. Therefore, it is so important that the Committees give proper priority and ensure that when they first decide when a vacancy is due, the deadlines are set and that the Rules of Procedure Committee and the Administration of the Grand Duchy, together with the Presidency, are in a position to carry out long-term planning so that work can be disseminated in the best possible way. It is therefore clear from this document that, with the amendments proposed in the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to seek a more even distribution of work over the year in the various matters under consideration. I have no faith in the full success of spreading this evenly throughout the year, but have hopes that we will get better organisation and better communication between the various committees and the Presidency through the Rules of Procedure Committee in the ongoing processes. I therefore hope that the changes we are now proposing in the Rules of Procedure can help us to improve the working procedures of the Stortinget in the future, so that the various issues are not only dealt with naturally and effectively through the committee procedure, but that there will also be room for the debates that need to be held in the Grand Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e979	In particular, I would like to mention the proposal made by the Progress Party in the configuration. That applies to the Question Time, which we in the Progress Party believe is a good tool to carry out the role of an ombudsman who has a major representative. I think that the majority here takes from the representative of the magnificence that the representative has to perform a role that is actually an important part of the day-to-day work of the representative of the magnificence, and an important role in relation to the representative democracy we have in this country. I'm not going to spend any more time. With this, I have listed the proposal from the Progress Party in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e986	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e989	The question of the organisation of committee work in Stortinget is not a matter of principle, but a purely practical, pragmatic question. There is also the question of the number of committees and the borderline between the different committees. The amendments put forward in the vote are, in my view, reasonable and will make it possible to have a better up-to-date distribution of tasks between the various professional committees. However, there is a more fundamental issue that was discussed in the committee that put forward the proposal for a new committee structure, which I want to highlight, because I think it is a question The Storting in the continuation should include in memory and possibly come back to on a later occasion. The vast majority of parliaments, including in our nearest neighbouring country, have a different tradition than we do in the Norwegian economy, by the fact that each representative would like to be a member of more than one trade committee, possibly being an alternate member of more professional committees than the one in which he is the principal representative. The advantage of such a scheme compared to our Norwegian system, where each of the 165 seats in one committee and only one committee, is that the representatives are forced to join in more areas of business than the one that belongs to the committee of which you are the main member. I have been somewhat concerned to observe developments in the plenary debates of the Storting, where you very often have the feeling that there are committee meetings you attend, just with the difference that they take place in the plenary room instead of in the committee room. It is extremely rare that more representatives of the Storting than those in the Trade Committee are taking part in a debate in plenary. An image of the role of politicians is likely to become more and more specialised, more and more limited to the very cadastral parcel that has been awarded by its party group through the distribution of representatives in trade unions. Now, of course, it's a counteritem in this account, and I have so much understanding of the arguments that can be put forward against such an arrangement. The advantage of our Norwegian tradition is that the committees become close working communities, and that over a period of four years, we can experience that the professional committees are becoming very well-functioning working communities. I don't know what's the most correct answer to this dilemma, but I wanted to mention it because I think this is a problem Stortinget should deal more closely with in the future. The proposal on the structure of the committee presented is the result of quite in-depth discussions, where the selection aired many different possibilities. What was agreed was that a proposal to change the committee structure of the Storting should be such that it can bring together a broad range of issues, because it is not the type of issues that are suitable for decision through marginal voting. That's why 13 committees are being resolved, and I think it might turn out in the next big time that it might be a decent way to get work done. A few brief comments on the proposal put forward by the representative of Solholm on behalf of the Progress Party and on the revisions proposed with regard to the Questionnaire Institute in Stortinget: a slight adjustment has been proposed for the oral question procedure, namely that so-called main issues have a two-minute framework instead of a one-minute framework. It's a modest revision, but if you count percent, it's a dramatic increase, a whole hundred pst., of speaking time. The reason for this is that experience shows that very often representatives will need something more than one minute if they are to justify in a satisfactory and convincing way why they are promoting the issue they are promoting to the relevant Council of State. I think it's a good audit. I also think it's reasonable to soften a little bit on the overall timeframe around the oral questioning process, and leave to the President to assess that question, depending on how vivid each questioning session develops. As far as the Interpellation Institute is concerned, I note that there has been a happy increase during this period, from a situation with relatively few interpellations towards a multi-interpellation situation. I believe that the Interpellation Institute is a suitable institution for the depositors. When you want to put a topical issue on the agenda and give all the parties in this room an opportunity to express a position, it is a suitable and flexible form. The proposal requires an extension of 3 to 5 minutes of speaking time for posts in inter-pelling debates. I think that's right. Similarly, it presupposes that the overall timeframe for an inter-pelling debate can be extended somewhat in relation to today. The prosthesis of the party of progress in terms of the frequency of the so-called ordinary questioning, I think for my part is unnecessary. We have seen a very clear development in this period towards the fact that the use of the ordinary questioning has shrunk steadily. At the last round of questions, on Wednesday this week, there were only four questions submitted. That's as far as I know, the smallest number in history as long as the ordinary questioning has existed. It speaks a very clear language. It confirms the correctness of the diagnosis made by the majority of the sample, namely that the introduction of the oral question procedure and the possibility of asking written questions with requests for answers within one week have caused the initial need for the ordinary questioning procedure to fall because it is covered by the other questioning arrangements. Personally, I would have liked us to have taken the full step and closed down the ordinary Questionnaire, as most other parliaments that have had the same arrangement have already done. But I'm very happy that you choose to take a step at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1019	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1027	We then go to voting on case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1035	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for various tax incentives that can stimulate operators in the industry to enter into agreements on more even supplies of raw materials.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1057	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1082	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1089	Then the votes will be 22 votes for the proposal and 69 votes against. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1099	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1137	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1174	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-27.ana.ud2040e1533	There is no record.
