ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e72	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Finn Martin Vallersnes. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e88	The case that we are going to deal with today has a long history. In November 2000 the government presented St.meld. No 11 for 2000-2001, on the relationship between the government, the government’s political leadership and other social actors, after the Storting had asked the government in 1995 and 1997 to provide clearer guidelines on the relationship between policy, administration and other social actors. In the course of 2000, the majority in Stortinget considered that the obligation of professional secrecy and the responsibility of individuals to avoid situations where questions of integrity could be raised would be sufficient to ensure equivalent consideration in the transition to political positions. In addition, the quarantine provisions for the transfer to another post outside the State of officials and officials were introduced from 15 February of this year. The Committee agrees with the Government that social developments are now making it necessary to re-examine these issues. Norway is a small country, and the same actors often return to important positions in society. Like the Government, the Committee does not believe that quarantine rules solve all the challenges, but we believe that this will be an important contribution to cleaner conditions. The longer you go from one position to another, the less we feel that the problems of transition to the position of other social actors will become, because the information will gradually become less relevant. The Committee therefore supports the Government’s proposal that quarantine rules should also be introduced when changing from a political position to other social actors and that the quarantine legislation applicable to officials and officials should be used as far as possible. The Committee has also been concerned that it is important to look at how staff are recruited into political positions and that there are good practices for such recruitment. It should not be a prohibition on state councils, state secretaries and political advisers being granted leave, for example. from business or employee organisations or other establishments. The Committee also stresses the need for an assessment of any stability problem in relation to the position in such cases and that it is made known to the person who has a permit from such an organisation. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party, aligns with the Government's proposal that an independent committee be set up to meet as necessary and have the task of deciding all matters arising from the transition from a political position in the ministries to other social actors. The majority consider it important that such a selection be composed of persons of high integrity and credibility, and that it should be managed by a person with jurisdiction and a good knowledge of both the public and private sectors. The Central Party considers that it is not necessary to build up a separate secretariat function in order to resolve such issues and that the question of quarantine can be decided by the Prime Minister’s office. The majority disagree because an incoming Prime Minister will be directly responsible for quarantine decisions linked to a recent government apparatus. The majority therefore believe that the independent sample and treatment in the Ministry of Modernisation ensure greater distance. A unanimous committee supports the Government's proposal that the compensation be calculated in the same way for politicians as for government officials and officials. This means that a quarantine period of up to six months may be imposed or a procedural ban of up to 12 months may be imposed. The prohibition may be imposed instead of or in addition to the quarantine, but not for more than one year. It shall also be an information obligation which requires unsolicited obligations to provide the necessary information on the new employment unless it is evident that the quarantine rules do not apply. The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to provide full compensation of pay during the quarantine period in the form of remuneration equivalent to that paid in the event of his resignation. Political management shall be subject to a general system of remuneration on withdrawal from a political position. The Committee believes that it is important to distinguish between the post-paid scheme and the quarantine cases and that it is a good practical solution that the payment of remuneration for political management follows the remuneration legislation because it is easier to manage. Furthermore, the Committee considers that there is a good system for allowing quarantine to be included in the letter of amendment for political advisers in the same way as for the civil service, while for state councils and state secretaries the royal resolution should be incorporated by appointment. The Committee notes that the Government considers that those in a political position today accept quarantine conditions if the Storting agrees and it appears that it should. SV is on its own for a proposal asking the Government to amend the rules so that the quarantine for political management and officials and officials can go beyond six months if the sample considers that the quarantine period should be extended. Finally, I would like to say that this has been a long process that has gone on for several years. The right is satisfied that there is unanimity in the Committee that quarantine rules are also necessary for the political management of the departments. We believe that it will be a positive signal and help to strengthen public confidence in the administration and the political system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e128	The working party supports the submission in St.meld. No 23 for 2004-2005 on the use of quarantine for political leadership in the departments in the event of a transfer to a post outside the country. We believe it is important to put this in place in relation to the introduction of quarantine on 15 February of this year for government officials and officials in the state when they move to a new position. Norway is a small country, and it is not so rare to find that the same people are left in different positions. Perhaps you would want it not to be so, that you could make more use of the diversity of women and men in society. But we just have to deal with the situation the way it is, and then it's important to assess to include specific expertise from high-level political work to private activities, where this knowledge can be used in a different context from what was intended. I remember from my time in the Post, with the processing of banking services, that there were strict demands on professional secrecy and also talking about quarantine if you stopped and went to a position in a competing bank. That time most of the time went on professional secrecy, but today is increasingly open. Not least this is the case with computer technology. It is therefore right to introduce quarantine for politicians in the departments, as has been done for officials and officials. The rapporteur has explained the procedure, so I will not repeat it. The Labour Party also agrees that a non-hidden sample will be set up to determine the issues arising from job transition after the end of a political job in a department. At the same time, it is not necessary to make matters so difficult for politically competent people to take up a job in a department. I think of those who have a job situation that means they can get leave while they work as politicians in a government. Here, we need to consider the question of viability in a sensible way and not make the problems bigger than they are. Full pay compensation must be provided during quarantine. At the same time, it is important that we have a legislative change in the pension law that says that pension points are also raised during the quarantine period. This legislative change is now under consideration in the family, cultural and administrative committees and will be finalised before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e145	Quarantine provisions for the transfer to another post outside the country were introduced for officials and officials in the country with effect from 15 February 2005. The size did not want the quarantine provisions to apply to political management in the departments. It was assessed that the duty of professional secrecy and responsibility of individuals to avoid situations in which questions were raised about their integrity would be sufficient to ensure equivalent consideration when switching to political positions. Societal developments have now updated the issue. Norway is a country where the same actors often return to important positions in society. The introduction of quarantine legislation for the transition from a political position in the departments to other social actors will give a positive signal and help to strengthen public confidence in the administration and the political system. Quarantine rules do not solve all the challenges, but will nevertheless make an important contribution to clearer conditions. SV is of the opinion that the problems of transition to a new position among other social actors will be reduced as time passes from one departure to another and the information that can be taken into account becomes less relevant. We therefore support the Government's proposal to introduce quarantine rules even when moving from a political position in the departments to other social actors. We refer to the guidelines for quarantine that apply to officials and officials, and we agree that they will be used as far as possible even when they are transferred from political positions in the ministry to positions outside central government. It is important to look at how staff are recruited into the political positions and that there are good practices in relation to recruitment. We agree with the ministry that there should not be a ban on government councils, state secretaries and political advisers being granted leave by, for example, the government. trade or employee organisations or activities, and would stress the need for an assessment of any problems in the stability of the position in such a case and that it is announced that he/she has a permit from such an organisation. We broadly agree with the rapporteur on this matter, both in terms of pay terms and other matters, but we would point out that in exceptional cases it may be right that the quarantine period for political management and government officials and officials in the state is longer than six months. We then propose that the independent selection to be set up assesses on a case-by-case basis how long the quarantine period and the case-law ban should be. SV therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to amend the rules so that the quarantine period for political management and officials and officials may exceed 6 months if the selection is deemed to prolong the quarantine period.’; I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e163	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e166	When the Storting today adopts the Government's proposal to use the quarantine for political leadership in the departments, it is a natural and correct next step to the regulations that have been made in recent years. There are no good reasons why today's quarantine provisions for officials and officials should not include political management. The left is satisfied that both government and magnification agree that provisions are needed for this and that not all assessments of the integrity of the individual in the transition between different roles are left to the sea concerned. Experience has shown that maritime justice in such situations is not enough. Norway is a small country, and the same person may occupy different places around the same table. It does not have to be a burden in itself, but it is important that there is attention and rules of the game on integrity and role issues. The peculiarities of being in political leadership in a department include: the broad contact network and the comprehensive understanding of policy objectives and strategies that are actually being provided. Such knowledge may be sensitive when people with an in-depth understanding go straight from political positions to business or to stakeholder organisations with tasks within the same or related field of action. For the Left, this has always been an important matter. We have been driving forces to put in place guidelines for political leadership in the departments and for officials and officials, and we were the first proposer in this Chamber in this area. Both politicians and central officials depend on trust. Examples of unfortunate transitions in the 1990s showed that there was a need to clean this up. A political position is an ombudsman role. Members of political leadership are ombudsmen on behalf of Norwegian citizens. It is these ombudsmen, together with the representatives of the Storting, who, on behalf of the people, are to premise for the development of society. Political management will often have an in-depth knowledge of policies and objectives and, in many cases, will also have greater access to sensitive information than the employment. It is therefore natural that the same rules apply to officials and politicians. The proposal to establish an independent sample which may come together as necessary will only enhance the confidence to which the new quarantine provisions offer. When difficult situations arise, it may be a strength for the person concerned and for the position to be entered, to be assessed by such a sample. When these quarantine rules are put in place, they will benefit all parties, and it will help to strengthen confidence in both politicians, civil servants, business and stakeholder organisations, upon which our democracy depends.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e179	I'm glad that a total big business is joining in on all the important questions raised in this big business message. The introduction of quarantine rules also for central politicians in the government apparatus will be one of several questions The Stortinget this spring discusses and takes a position on which helps to strengthen confidence in the political system. At a time when there is also pressure against these types of social institutions, it is important to think according to the precautionary principle and to contribute to the absence of doubting and questioning the confidence of our political system. This is an important contribution and, as I said, I am pleased with the unanimous agreement that this proposal receives. I just want to comment on the proposal from SV. There will always be a balance where limits are to be set. We have assessed that within a framework of up to six months, the value of having detailed expertise is so much impaired that we care for what has been the intention of the proposal we have made to the Stortinget. It is important that, in our democracy, we do not put obstacles in the way of recruiting widely, and we should not take action that some might consider an unnecessary obstacle in order to participate in political activity for shorter or longer periods of time. That is not what democracy serves us. This means, therefore, that when we place restrictions on post-employment activity either in the employment service or in a political position in the government system, we must also balance the consideration of the worker or politician. We have just carried out the balancing and balancing of the proposal we have made to Stortinget. I am also concerned, regardless of where the boundaries had to be set, that those who enter a political position, at least have predictability. So I see SV's proposal as a proposal that means that when you enter a position you do not know what the limit of a possible quarantine period will be. I think that is unfortunate in relation to the interests of the worker and of the politician who must also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e191	I am very much in agreement with the Council of State that it is important to know initially how long the quarantine period should be, but on the SV side, we believe that there have been cases in Norway where the quarantine period should have been longer. What we have put in a proposal is that a sample should be set up to assess these matters on a case-by-case basis, that it is this sample that will assess the quarantine period in very special quotations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e196	Does the Council of State wish to answer that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e199	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e207	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2233]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e225	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2233]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e241	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e257	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e266	I want to begin by commending the work that crisis centres do for women who are in an unsafe situation either because they are subjected to violence or because they experience threats about it. Crisis centres are a very important service for many women and are a necessary low-threshold service operated in addition to public services. There are approx. 50 crisis centres in the country, and most are run by non-governmental organisations. Many of the crisis centres spent a long time trying hard to get enough money to cover their operating costs. It was therefore a major advance when we were given a mechanism whereby crisis centres are financed through 80 p.m. grants. from the State and 20 pst. from the municipalities. This improved the economy of crisis centres and provided greater security for most women applying for crisis centres. The coverage of such benefits is the responsibility of the municipality of residence under the Social Services Act. For most women in crisis centres, this works well. But for some women, it doesn't work, because they have to seek help and stay in crisis centres outside their own municipality and outside the area covered by the local crisis centre. These are women who are threatened with life and who are refugees as a result of family violence, or have become victims of human trafficking, ‘trafficking’, or for forced marriage. These are, in many cases, best helped to stay in crisis centres outside their own municipality of residence. However, the funding mechanism often contributes to a discussion between municipalities about who it is to pay. This discussion makes women who are initially having a hard time becoming ballistics in the system and often do not get enough help. This is the background to the proposal that the Government should provide for a regulation or propose a law to ensure that the former municipality of residence bears responsibility for the expenditure relating to the municipal services for up to one year. The majority in the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, do not recommend this change, on the basis of a principle of equality, and refer to other groups, who voluntarily move to another municipality because they want a better health service than their own municipality has. This majority proposes, in the light of the fact that the proposal presented in Document No. 8:28, shall be annexed to the minutes. However, a minority of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that women fleeing violent situations are in a forced state and cannot be compared with groups voluntarily moving to other municipalities to improve their health and services. This minority therefore asks the Government to ensure, through regulation or by other means, that the municipality of residence is obliged, prior to admission to the crisis centre, to pay the expenditure relating to municipal services provided by the host municipality of the crisis centre for up to one year. I refer to the setting and include this in the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e287	The representative Britt Hildeng has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e290	I don't think anyone disagrees that women on the run from violence and coercion should be offered the necessary help, security and follow-up. Very often, a place in a crisis centre is the best and perhaps the only way to do this. Often it is necessary to place a woman in a crisis centre in another municipality, either because there is no crisis centre in her original municipality of residence, or because it is necessary to get away from the one you need protection from. In order to allow users of different services to move freely to the municipality they wish, it is enshrined in the Social Services Act that services are to be paid by the municipality of residence, including temporary residence. This is a good principle, which means that citizens in Norway should be able to move freely to whatever municipality they want and receive services there. It also helps to prevent the user from experiencing a denial of services due to disagreement between municipalities about who is going to pay. This is the main reason why the Right cannot support the payment by the former municipality of residence for stays in a crisis centre. Moreover, there will be discrimination against groups moving voluntarily to another municipality in order to improve the provision of services. Furthermore, the derogation provided for by the Social Services Act, which allows the previous municipality of residence to bear the costs of staying at an institution in certain cases, is proposed, completed by the Bernt Committee's proposal for new common health and social legislation. Therefore, the proposal is now pending consultation, and any changes in relation to who is to be paid for stay in crisis centres should in any case not be adopted until the hearing bodies have given their opinion. I also think there is reason to remember that the crisis centres are funded by 80 pst. by the State, which severely limits the expenditure of municipalities. In addition, as a representative of a party that has both faith and will strengthen municipal autonomy, I would like to remind you that there is something called inter-municipal cooperation. In the establishment of a crisis centre, it is fully possible for municipalities to conclude agreements which result in a breakdown of costs, recognising that it is not appropriate to have a crisis centre in all municipalities, either in relation to quality or in relation to quantity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e301	Like the other parties, we regret the development that has taken place in recent years, with more violence in the family, more coerciveness and a strong increase in the use of crisis centres. Of course, in these marriages, the children will be the most vulnerable. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is far too little concentrated on parents, whether married or in couples, where one sees only one's own situation in the problems, and forgets that for the children who are separated from their parents, one or both, it is a tragedy that can seriously harm the children in the long term. The economic problems that these people face can certainly be tough and difficult, but, as I see it, it is not at all the most important problems in such situations. The crisis centres are currently being financed by 80 p.m. by the State and 20 pst. by the municipalities. As long as we have funding for the welfare schemes distributed between the state and the municipality, the Progress Party does not find any reason to change this. In this context, I refer you to the letter of the Council of State dated 2 February 2005. An investigation of these problems is under way, and a proposal is being consulted. The cancellation will therefore get the matter back in an appropriate manner at a later stage. If the Progress Party had achieved an impact on the financing of all welfare measures by state transfers to the individual family, this would not be a problem in this situation, since the State would have to pay independently of residence. However, the Party considers that it is not fair for some groups of disadvantaged persons, such as those who have to seek a crisis centre, to be discriminated against in relation to other individuals and their fates. For example, elderly and sick people may have difficulty moving to another municipality in order to get better care, along with the family, at the end of their lives, where one will not be given priority in the case of sick homes. The Progress Party therefore supports the proposal for the matter to be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e314	Women who are subjected to family violence, coercion or other serious threats and abuses are often on the verge of literally saving their own lives and health. They are thus in an emergency situation where it is essential that society both facilitates the necessary security and protection of these women and removes all opportunities for disagreements and ambiguities about responsibilities and the economy to prevent such necessary protection. The way today's system is, this doesn't work well enough. It is often crucial for women in such a situation to seek refuge in a crisis centre outside their own municipality of residence just to ensure their own safety in the best possible way. It is also true that in very many of the Norwegian municipalities, a crisis centre offer is not established, and therefore many depend on offers in a municipality other than their own. Therefore, the municipalities in which good crisis centres are established could be subject to significant financial burdens because the principle of payment in the Social Services Act implies that the municipality of residence is at all times responsible for financing all expenditure for stays, including temporary residence. This principle is basically sound and correct in order to prevent disagreement between municipalities in the financing and design of services. However, in the case of this group, women in refugees, the principle that the municipality of residence should pay may in itself prevent assistance and protection from being provided. Crisis centres differ from most other municipal services in that they are not required by law and therefore do not exist in very many municipalities. In addition, the important fact that I've been up to, that too many women fleeing is just a point to seek refuge outside their own municipality. By imposing excessive financial burdens on the municipalities that have established crisis centres, we can risk jeopardising these offers too. Therefore SV, who is also the proposer of this document, would like to see section No. The 8-proposal, to ensure that women's residence municipalities are responsible for financing a temporary stay in a crisis centre, regardless of the municipality in which this offer is offered. Such a system will ensure both a fairer financial distribution of operating costs and also a greater degree of assurance that good offers are not jeopardised. SV is pleased that both the Labour Party and the Center Party support this proposal, but we are disappointed that neither the government parties nor the Progress Party are willing to ignore the principles to find the solution that is best for this highly vulnerable group of persecuted women. It is completely irrelevant, in the SV's view, as the government parties and the Progress Party point out, that women are compared to refugees from violence and threats with groups who voluntarily move from one municipality to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e327	The Christian People's Party shares the intentions of the proposers to help women who are fleeing from forced marriage. A separate action plan on coerciveness was presented in 2002. The search light was aimed at preventing this in Norway. In addition, there was a need for skills and better coordination and cooperation between different actors. That's about. 50 crisis centres in Norway today. Most are run as private foundations and represent a safe haven for women who are fleeing from forced marriage. In recent times, more and more women have experienced violence in close relationships. For women who are fleeing from family violence, who are forced into prostitution or coercion, it is important that there is an offer for them. Many of these are probably best helped if they are allowed to stay in a crisis centre outside the municipality of residence. The crisis centre grant scheme is based on a municipal share of 20 pst. triggering a State grant of 80 pst. by the budget of the crisis centres. I do not know that women fleeing from forced marriages have been refused due to the payment system. The Christian People's Party, like the proposers, is committed to clear responsibilities, so that women who need help and assistance from the crisis centres do not become caste balls in the auxiliaries. The letter of the Minister of Health of 2 February this year stresses that the crisis centres should be open to all, regardless of their view of value or life. They shall be free of charge to users and no referral shall be required. It is established that the municipality in which the woman resides is responsible for providing and financing social services at crisis centres. For the woman, it gives her security to know that she can get help while she lives or is temporarily staying in another municipality. The new employment and welfare offices to be established in all municipalities can provide coordinated assistance to women who are on the run for various reasons. At present, the Bernt Committee's position on a new common social and health legislation is out of the question. The committee is not in favour of the continuation of the reimbursement rule in the second paragraph of Section 10-1 of the Social Services Act. Crisis centres do not currently benefit from the exemptions, as they do not have institutional status. In order to extend the scope of reimbursement to the crisis centres, it may be difficult on the basis of non-discrimination compared to groups that voluntarily move to another municipality in order to improve the provision of services. The Christian People's Party believes that the best way to avoid conflict between municipalities is that the municipality that has crisis centres and expenditures also has the advantage of funding there. The municipality of residence is also responsible for services under the Local Health Service Act and the Child Welfare Service Act. It can lead to more administration if a grant provides reimbursement for social services in the crisis centres and not for other services that the woman needs. Christian People's Party does not reject Document No. The 8th proposal. We will wait until the hearing bodies in the Bernt Committee have given their opinion on the proposal before we take a final decision. I therefore recommend that Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e357	Many women who are subjected to violence and coercion have to escape from their initial location, and this is often the case for women applying for crisis centres, for example. Forced marriage, violence and threats, moved or even moved to another municipality in order to obtain the help that a crisis centre can provide. Benefits under the Social Services Act are initially the responsibility of the municipalities of residence. It is presented by, among others: the Minister of Health and Welfare that crisis centres are no exception in this context and that the general rule therefore is that the municipalities in which the crisis centres are located are responsible for covering the costs of residence and establishment for women in exile from forced marriage. A minority in the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that this principle does not work as well for women who are on the run for a limited period of time because of, for example, the threat of forced marriage, or because of their being subjected to violence. This means that we support the proposers in that the Government should review the regulations that are, and through new and clear regulations, or otherwise, ensure that the municipality of residence is responsible for reimbursement of the costs of municipal services during a temporary stay in a crisis centre prior to admission to a crisis centre. We've got a funding plan for the crisis centres now, and that's good and good, with 80 pst. State grants and 20 pst. to be covered by the municipalities. You could say, as the representative of the Right said in his statement, that belief in municipal autonomy should make it possible to hope and assume that this works through inter-municipal cooperation, and that the municipalities should also cover these expenses as provided for by the Social Services Act. It is a good principle, but there are not always principles compatible with everyday life, nor are maps and terrain consistent. What we're afraid of is that especially small crisis centres that have good services, and that are visited by many of these women here, have a problem with their social action and their child protection service because it will burden the municipality in which this crisis centre is located, disproportionately much. This means that we want the starting point to be that what is one's municipality of residence before fleeing to this crisis centre should bear the expenses. I had hoped that what was in the intention of the proposers here had been adopted today. It is worth noting, however, that the article by the representative Woie Duesund, who says that one will look at the Bernt Committee's setting first, and then consider whether one should possibly follow what the minority here suggests. It is at least an opening to look at this in such a way that it works in the best possible way, and so that it does not burden a small, good crisis centre in a relatively small municipality, nor does it cause women on the run to become caste balls in a bureaucratic and economic system that is hardly worthy of the handling of fellow people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e370	The Council of State has given up the word. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e388	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e397	The growing sugar consumption among children and young people is an important topic. High sugar intake can contribute to health damage such as diabetes and dental diseases. Sugar is also an important cause of obesity. Obesity is an increasing and serious problem and leads to diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, some cancers, muscle and musculoskeletal disorders and mental problems. Studies show that in recent years a significant increase in type 2 diabetes has been recorded. At the same time, there has also been an increase in the consumption of sugar. This concerns a very important theme, namely the theme of shifting resources from repairing to prevention. An important intervention in this way is a hard and targeted effort to reduce sugar consumption. An overall committee therefore agrees with the intentions of the proposal of Morten Lund and Ola D. Glötvold. The question is how we're going to work. Do we need a separate action plan, or can this happen in another way? In this way, the Committee points out that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on developing a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes. The plan will be completed in 2005. The Committee assumes that action to reduce sugar consumption will be a central theme of the action plan. The Committee believes that this theme is also important in the follow-up work on St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, entitled ‘Recipt for a healthier Norway’. The Committee considers that a number of measures to reduce sugar consumption are very important and assumes that this is given great attention in the plans already under consideration by the Government. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Party of Progress, the SV and the Christian People's Party, recommend that the document be annexed to the Protocol, while the minority of the Committee, the member of the Central Party, considers the increase in sugar consumption and its negative impact on health and society, suggests that an overall action plan be drawn up and promote proposals in line with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e408	Children’s and young people’s sugar intakes are most concerned, and the issue raised by the proposers is therefore very topical in today’s society. Increased obesity among children and adolescents contributes strongly to our being inside a diabetic 2 wave. The strong increase of approx. In Norway, 5000 new cases each year are largely due to an increased incidence of overweight, and this has been the topic of debate in newspapers and other media in the last year. The important debate has focused on diet and nutrition. It has been a long time since we have had a similar debate in this country. Poor diet with high sugar consumption, especially among children and young people, and the challenges we face in view of the strong increase we experience in diabetes 2, helped the government to focus on the problem already in the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003 Recipe for a healthier Norway. At the time, when we were playing out about the danger of excessive sugar intake, the Minister of Health and the Government were criticized for leading indexing morals. Afterwards, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on developing a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes, in line with what the proposers ask for. The plan will be completed during 2005 and will clearly address the issue of overweight and high sugar consumption. I agree with the proposers that good labelling is important, and I am pleased that the Government can demonstrate that Norway is already taking part in a work in the EU regarding the revision of the labelling legislation. Labelling of the nutrient content of foods is very important. In today's society, we see that more and more people are struggling with a obesity problem. The indication of sugar content is not least important and must be given priority as part of the general work on food labelling. The sugar debate is an example of the importance of information and knowledge for the population that contributes to a change of attitude in society in general and in children and young people in particular. One must, therefore, prevent through the home schooling profession, where one must contribute deliberately to a good understanding of proper diet and healthy dietary habits. The guidelines of the Social and Health Directorate for School Meal are important in this context. Both parents, school managers and students need to be encouraged to follow up on these, because high consumption of sugars, which contain only energy, distorts other foods. A food only with energy helps other foods, with needed vitamins and minerals, to give way. This is apparent from studies among teenagers with a high sugar intake and thus significantly less fruit and vegetables than recommended. In many schools, parents and students have taken responsibility and have been replaced by showers with access to fresh and cold water. I hope that more and more schools, parents and students will take the same initiative, as well as focusing more on activity. Too little physical activity together with too high energy intake is the main cause of obesity and type 2 diabetes. In France, Brazil and several states in the United States, school authorities have adopted a ban on the sale of shower in schools, including school canteens. In Norway, the district of East-Agder has decided to prohibit shower sales at secondary schools. In Diabetes magazine, no. 2, for February, we can read about "Hedmark guerrilla against sugar". Hedmark County now goes to war against the ever-increasing consumption of sugar by children and young people. The aim is to halve sugar consumption, and different strategies for the sugar war are now being discussed in Hedmark. The County Council doctor is not just concerned about the dental health of children and young people, which has shown a negative trend since 1998. He also suggests that the benefit of eating less sugar will be a positive effect on other public health areas — in terms of better concentration, reduced risk of type 2 diabetes and less overweight. Several schools and kindergartens in the Glamdalen region have addressed the problem and have introduced almost sugar-free day-care, while several schools have deliberately invested in water as a drink. When we know that the consumption of sugar among children and young people is so high in Norway, and that most of it is consumed through soft drinks and juice, the Hedmark guerrilla effort is a great example of follow-up for others, both at home, in school and in kindergarten. If it was allowed to applaud in the storeroom, I would have liked to encourage it. But I hope that many schools, kindergartens and municipalities follow the example of the Hedmark guerrilla.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e429	For the sake of the Rules of Procedure, the President is grateful that the representative has been able to resist the temptation. In general, there is no reason to encourage individual states to go to war, but in this case it may be understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e434	I'm going to try to be a little less warrior than talking about the guerrilla and what the previous talk was about. But it is clearly a fact that there has been a disturbing increase in the average weight, not only in the adult population, but also in children and young people. This is worrying, all the time a number of diseases can be associated with lack of physical activity and consequent overweight. There is reason to be concerned about this development, and especially if we see it in the context of the increase in diabetes 2 in particular. Proposals focus in their proposal on the need to develop a separate ‘action plan to reduce sugar consumption among children and young people’. According to the proposers themselves, the reason for the proposal is that the consumption of sugar in children and young people has increased considerably in recent years. I think that everyone in this room has gone inward and focused on this issue in the design of their policies in terms of children and young people's growing-up environment. However, it is already open doors to be opened when this proposal is being promoted. There are a number of issues that have already been raised on this issue, and there are issues that are being dealt with, as it appears quite correctly in letters from the Minister of Health and Welfare to the Social Committee dated 10 February this year. The size of the population has already decided to draw up a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes during 2005, on a proposal from the Progress Party. This is precisely a matter in which it is natural to address the issues raised in Document No. The 8 proposal, but only in a larger and more comprehensive context. It is important that we focus on what is actually also the responsibility of parents in terms of diet and activity, and that one does not simply try to transfer too much of this responsibility to the public. However, it is important to facilitate the conditions for both diet and physical activity in the arenas of public responsibility, such as: the ever longer school day, which must also come in the future. The Progress Party will today be voting against the proposal of the Centre Party to draw up an action plan, all the time a work is already in progress that is linked to children's diet and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e449	I would first like to refer to the rapporteur's statement and join it. I would also like to stress that when SV does not support Document No. The 8 proposal from the Centre Party, is because we are aware that there is a major work going on on a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes. We assume, like the rest of the committee, that measures to reduce sugar consumption will be a central element of this plan. So it's not because we disagree that the high and increasing sugar consumption is a serious health problem. That's the greatest part of it. I would especially like to say a little bit about the role of school in this context. It is well documented that good and healthy dietary habits are laid in childhood and young people, and that unhealthy and poor diets at an early age can lead to high and severe health consequences, not only in terms of physical health but also in relation to mental balance, stamina and concentration. School is a very important part of the lives of children and young people, both because they spend much of the day at school — and that time will be expanded — and because the school can play a crucial role in the development of children and young people also in knowledge and attitudes about food, drink and diet. In addition, it is a fact that a healthy and varied diet can play a decisive role in children’s and young people’s learning and mastering school life. Therefore, it is completely wrong when the only offer of food and drink available in many Norwegian schools is a shower machine. There is not even a good supply of clean, cold and fresh drinking water in all Norwegian schools. Teaching and training on food, cooking and diet have become a balancing item in many schools and in many communities with a high economic stamina. This has led students in many homework hours to sit and draw good and proper food instead of making it, serving it and eating it in a social community. In the opinion of SV, this is not a good and modern school. Nor is it the answer to the health and learning challenges faced by many Norwegian school students, who have their cause in poor diets and an excessive intake of sugar. Therefore, SV will work to ensure that all Norwegian schoolchildren receive a good, tasty and healthy school meal, in which they can participate actively in preparing and serving. Many other countries have had school meals as a natural part of school life for many years. Why not in Norway? I, and SV, believe that such a measure will mean a lot to children's and young people's diet and eating habits. This will include, inter alia: could contribute to a reduction in sugar consumption and be very important in order to improve well-being and promote school learning and performance. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health and Health can confirm that the role of the school in terms of both educational arrangements, resources and school meals for all is an important part of the ministry’s work to reduce sugar consumption and promote healthy dietary habits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e458	It is no longer than two years since we stood on this platform and debated public health policy. St.meld. No 16 for 2002–03 The prescription for a healthier Norway drew up new public health strategies for the next 10 years. As rapporteur of the case in connection with that communication, I want to see the parallels backwards. Now, as then, we know that the biggest nutritional challenges in the future are reducing the intake of fat, and especially saturated fat, and increasing the consumption of vegetables and fruit in all groups of the population. It is also important to stimulate the increased consumption of coarse cereal products and fish and the reduction of sugar and salt intake. Such dietary changes will reduce the risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, some cancers, obesity, type 2 diabetes, osteoarthritis and gum rot. Too much sugar in the diet is therefore only part of the challenges of public health policy and cannot be seen in isolation. The basis for a healthy and good diet is laid in childhood and youth. This is also known by the proposers, and they have children and young people as the target group for the proposal to present an action plan for reducing sugar consumption. For this reason, the Government has also focused on the target group of children and young people when making a nutrient action package. Among other things, the Government ensures that the themes of food and nutrition are included in pre-school and teacher education. The country's 9th class gets a free cookbook. This is a great way to learn good eating habits for young people. When purchasing the ingredients of the recipes, it is important that the labelling of the products is easy to understand, so that they understand how much sugar and sweeteners the products contain. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norway is actively involved in the work of the EU regarding the revision of the label legislation. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that more and more schools are cutting out their shower machines, and that this is largely voluntary. It is also very positive that many municipalities improve their water quality so that drinking water becomes attractive. Financial resources for the financing of the fruit and vegetables subscription scheme in primary schools are ensured, as was done in the 2005 budgetary procedure. This year, 22.2 million were granted. kr for fruit and green in school. The scheme is now in place in all counties, and efforts are being made to increase student participation. Follow-up of St.meld. No 16 we'll see the effects of in the future. During 2005, the Government will present a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes. The Christian People's Party believes that, among other things, must focus on measures to reduce sugar consumption. Based on the thorough work done and reported in the overall field of public health, I find it natural that Document No. 8:34, from the representatives of Lund and Glötvold, to draw up an action plan for reducing the consumption of sugar by children and young people, is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e477	Sugar consumption has increased enormously in recent years. By the turn of the century, the consumption of showers by children and young people in Norway had increased by 73pst. during a 10-year period. We know that the total amount of energy from sugar for 13-year-olds is approx. 18 p.m., while the World Health Organization recommends an upper ceiling of 10 p.m. We also know that there is a greater proportion of the world's population that is overweight than is underweight. This is largely due to misnutrition and sugar intake. We also see that these high intakes of sugar lead to disease — diabetes has been mentioned here several times, and dental diseases, but also cardiovascular diseases, some cancers, muscle and skeletal disorders and mental problems — while at the same time causing poor concentration and poor stamina if there is too much sugar in the diet. When we have promoted this proposal, it is to focus more on attitudes and attitudes towards food and food habits in the future. We now see that it is an increasing intake of sugar, and it is said here that it is also the responsibility of the parents. Yes, it is. But we are now starting to get a parental regeneration that even has poor knowledge and bad attitudes about a healthy diet, and then we have to deal with it in a proper way. We are not prepared to open doors, as the representative from the Progress Party said. This with a real plan for diabetes we've talked about and supported before. We also voted in favour of such a plan last autumn, when it was adopted here. However, there is a plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes, and we believe that a larger and wider range of measures may be needed to reduce sugar consumption and achieve a healthy diet, such as: The Children's Ombudsman and the Consumer Council have proposed. In this context, not least diet and school education are very important. We see that the home knowledge profession is constantly being devalued, and that is a dangerous development in terms of people having good habits and good attitudes to a proper and healthy diet. That is also why we have chosen to make a minority in this case, and we believe that it should be so that we get an action plan to reduce sugar consumption, especially among children and young people. The representative Woie Duesund mentioned a healthier Norway and the public health policy that we debated here for approx. Two years ago. It was a useful review. But the follow-up has been primarily responsible for the Storting. It is to the benefit of Stortinget that we have received an action plan on diabetes prevention, treatment and research. It did not come from the Government, it came after pressure in the budgetary procedure last autumn, from the Progress Party. The centre party was also ready to propose such a case if it had not been involved in the budgetary procedure. Now it's this with the sugar consumption that's on the plan. We have seen few – if any – action plans directly as a result of St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003, prescription for a healthier Norway. There have also been proposals here on more fruit and vegetables in school that have been voted down by a majority in the Grand Duchy. We have to start acting, if we're going to turn fine words and formulations into something that affects the population. Although, from the debate that has taken place, we now see that awareness is growing, we are afraid that increased sugar consumption will lead to severe disease pressures in the population, which, in turn, means great economic elations to society. Then it must be important that we take action now and try to prevent it instead of processing and repair, as the case-rapporteur on this matter, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said. I would have liked to see more of us on a real proposal, but I am happy to support the intention of the proposal, and that it is supported by a whole social committee. I just hope that in the long term we will get more real measures against sugar consumption and get a healthier diet and a healthier life for the young part of our population. I'm addressing the proposal promoted by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e494	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e497	I record that there is a broad commitment and cross-political views related to the fact that there has become a high level of sugar consumption among children and young people, and that it is worrying in many respects. The same applies to the increasing incidence of obesity among these groups. We also know that the consumption of fruit and vegetables is lower than recommended by nutritionists. I would like to mention first that there is a work going on with a wide range of measures to improve the diet of the population, especially targeted at children and young people. There are measures such as: is a follow-up to the Storing Message ‘Recipe for a Healthier Norway’. One of the measures is a system of subscriptions for fruit and vegetables in school. It is now actually established in all the counties, and annual budgets are committed to increasing student participation in it. Another project is physical activity and meals at school, which is a collaboration between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The focus here is on developing a good framework for activity in school everyday life and for a good school meal. The results of this project will provide a basis for future solutions. The need to reduce sugar consumption and prevent overweight is a global challenge. This was one of the backgrounds for the issue being addressed by the WHO, and for the adoption of the global strategy for diet, physical activity and health in May 2004. Norwegian health authorities are now considering what should be done in the context of this follow-up. I would also refer to the physical activity action plan, which was presented in December 2004. During the treatment of the 2005 State Budget, the Government was asked to draw up a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes during 2005, on which several speakers have been involved. We are now in the process of doing this. Nutrition and nutrition will be an important theme of this plan. Measures to limit sugar consumption may be relevant below. Labelling of food products is an instrument that I want to use better, so that food information is provided to consumers in the best possible way. In the EU, a revision of the labelling legislation is being undertaken, and Norwegian authorities are actively contributing to this work. Proposals for the labelling of sugar content will be relevant together with a better labelling of other nutrients. In other words, the theme ‘Foodkeeping among children’s and young people’s sugar and overweight problems’ is a priority part of public health work in the future in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e518	It's not supposed to be acting like some guerrilla soldier here, even though the undersigned has been accused of belonging to another Hedmarks guerrilla. But I would like to comment on what the Minister of Health and Health had to say at the end of the day, this with the brand code. We now know that GMOs are also used to convert maize sugar into fructose, and that this sweetener, among other things, is used. used in beverages. Will the Minister of Health, working on the labelling code, ensure that not only the amount of sugar but also the type of sugar is produced, and how this type of sugar is produced – will he ensure that such things are now included in the legislation on the labelling of sweeteners and foodstuffs? This is, in the opinion of the undersigned, very important to get a real background on what kind of foods and what kind of sweeteners we have in front of us. In fact, part of the discussion on sweeteners is not entirely real in terms of the type of sweeteners used.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e527	The council then has the opportunity to shoot back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e530	When it comes to food labelling, it has had a lot of attention, not just in us, but actually in a lot of countries. One should not look at many foods in any business until one sees that the labelling is actually deficient – it is deficient in making qualified choices, to the extent that one is concerned with avoiding special additives. This is why the EU now has a review of its legislation on what to allow and not to allow. We participate very actively in that work. Sugar and sweeteners are some of the things that are seen. The problem pointed to by the representative of Lutvold related to maize sugar and fructose is an important part of it. There are different types of sugar that are used and that are rewritten, and we have seen in the labelling of Norwegian food that in a way the problem is avoided by using the right names, the scientific names, which for most of us consumers are completely incomprehensible. That's why it's necessary to do this so that people can make qualified choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e537	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e542	Molvik gave a clear description of the SV's position in relation to the present proposal, so I'm not going to elaborate that particular position any more. But I got a different association here, because there's been a lot of talk about the war – Ole Paus has said that everything was much better during the war. When you see that in relation to the specific thing we're discussing here, that's type 2 diabetes, break is right. There was virtually no type 2 diabetes in Norway during the war. The sobering thing is how Norway, as a result of an increase in prosperity in which active measures to prevent disease in the population were to be implemented, has experienced an increase in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes, which has been known to be known as age diabetes, but which is now being introduced in the past, down to younger classes of years, because diets are already unhealthy from infancy. What is also thought-provoking is how, just after the war, the need for a healthy diet in a society that was in a build-up phase with little capital available, to develop dietary habits in school, for example. Here in Oslo, with the Oslo diet, which ensured that you had a healthy diet among schoolchildren in many ways and for a long time afterwards. It's thoughtful again that today, with a better economy than we've ever had, we don't have a common recognition that we have to do something about this, in terms of creating healthier dietary habits in school, establishing patterns of school meals, and in that way trying to get new generations of students, of children and young people who have different attitudes about diet. I record that the Centre Party has previously brought it up with fruit and vegetables in school, and as far as I have registered, the national meeting in the Workers' Party has now adopted the same. SV has also supported a much stronger commitment to healthy diets in school. If there is then a change of government, it means that the three parties have committed themselves in many ways to a change in this state, and that there should be a range of bets compared to introducing a type of school meal that can start with fruit and green, but that should be more ambitious than that. In this way, over time, you can build up the sugar intake and ensure that any student attending primary school develops healthy dietary habits and eats a meal. Many people don't do it today, or choose to buy shower and school balls. In this way, they develop poor diets and unhealthy habits in relation to dental injuries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e553	The President will assume that the war to which it was referred was World War II, but will recommend that you no longer go back in the history of war. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e571	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e580	This debate also provides an opportunity to stress that after almost one year of working time, the smoking law has been a major success in terms of what was the aim of the law, namely to protect workers in the service industry from passive smoking. But you could also say that it has had a very nice side effect. In this committee, we rarely talk about nice side effects, but we can do that in this case. The Smoking Act has also helped many more people to stop smoking. In this way, this is perhaps one of the issues in this period that will later have the greatest long-term impact on people's health. All the predictions that were brought against the law, all the problems of the law that were raised, have largely not been addressed. Therefore it is very pleasant when it has now worked both a summer and a winter. The initiative taken here is about the conditions in bingo rooms. What was important for the majority in the context of the smoking law was to have a law that was so clear and so clear in scope that it did not lead to loopholes or distortions in a competitive situation between different serving sites. It has also worked well. However, bingo facilities are not ordinary serving places in that sense. The main activity of a bingo room is necessarily bingo play. The Committee has thus been committed to referring to the somewhat more liberal interpretation of the Social and Health Directorate in relation to bingo rooms, which I also believe is in line with the majority's opinion when the law was passed. If the smoking law is handled rigidly in relation to these bingo rooms, it acts more like a coffee ban than a smoking ban – a bingo business can of course choose to continue without any kind of service, but will have its own smoking room. The majority are pleased that the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has informed the supervisory authorities that a more liberal interpretation of simpler service can be used in the case of exemption applications, for example: coffee from vending machines in bingo rooms, because it will not rock by what is the main purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e593	It was almost touching to read about the concern representatives Trond Giske and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen through his Document No. Eight suggestions show to those who run bingo, or who are just there as players. Such concern is such that these representatives propose that the Government should ensure that the Tobacco Injury Act is ‘practiced in such a way that bingo facilities are given the opportunity to provide simple services’. I consider it appropriate to quote the following from the proposal put forward by these representatives: ‘It should be possible to apply the legislation in a reasonable manner, so that the objectives of smoke-free air can be met as well as the possibility of simple serving.’ I am fully in line with the rapporteurs, who show that this very strict Norwegian smoking law has some strange and very unfortunate consequences. It is quite possible to make sure that both smokers and non-smokers in this country can actually live side by side, without having to force someone to go out on the street to take a smoke, or that someone cannot participate in social life because of too dense smoke in a room. In fact, in the context of the treatment of the smoking law, the party promoted a proposal that it should be an opening to, inter alia, restaurants should be able to establish unserviceable smoking rooms so that the interests of both restaurant owners, staff at the restaurants, smokers and non-smokers could be safeguarded also in Norway. All other parties voted against this. The same was true of the own parties of the proposers. And I would assume that the proposers who were present in the Chamber also voted against this. That's what makes this case about the bingo rooms extra touching. I must stress, however, that I am now looking forward with excitement to how the same proposers will deal with the proposals of the Progress Party on unattended smoking rooms, where, in any case, smokers will only harm themselves and not others. It actually doesn't keep saying e.g. that those who will clear there later on at night or the following day are exposed to smoke, as this could be regulated by proper ventilation. It is also fully possible today to ensure that smoke does not drift into adjacent premises using smoke curtains. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party that is included in the vote, which is precisely in keeping with the interests of the non-smokers, the smokers, the restaurant owners and the restaurant staff. It will be very exciting to see the voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e616	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e619	The introduction of smoke-free serving sites was a historic milestone in the fight against the health damage caused by tobacco. Now smokenova has been for one year – and the big horror propaganda against smokenova has not turned on, and satirical comments and other fine expressions are probably not going to change just that. The most important reason why a implemented smokenova was they added and cared for them, and there has been a positive result so far. It might also be interesting to see that the comfort of going to the outdoors has actually increased monthly after an introduced smoking ban. In this Document, No: The 8-proposal we focus on bingo rooms. I support the case spokesman, Bent Höie, his review and see no reason why we, from the Christian People's Party's side, should withdraw the debate on bingo rooms here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e626	Just a few brief clarifications. There is no need to take a new fight about the smoking law now, although we were of the opinion that it should be evaluated relatively quickly compared to what turned out to be practically difficult and perhaps could lead to inconsistent actions. I do not think, however, that there is any reason to lubricate as tightly as the representative Nesvik of the Progress Party did. What I think is important is to remember that Section 6 of the Tobacco Injury Act opens up opportunities for exemption, and that this dispensation option led to different practices in the implementation of the Smoking Act. It has given itself a number of dubious results. However, I am pleased that the Social and Health Directorate has instructed and sent the supervisory authorities clearer guidelines for a more equal practice of exemption. What is now coming as a result of this case is a clarification of the possibilities for exemption, and that these are becoming more consistent with what was Odelsting's intention at the time the law was dealt with. The majority of the Committee considers that the Directorate of Labour, which is responsible for major geographical areas, ensures that this type of derogation is now treated in the same way for the whole country. I think it's very important that you have an approach to this that gives a sense of real non-discrimination and justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e637	When I sat here and listened waiting to take the floor in the next case, I must say that I reacted to the representative Bent Höie's violent tribute to the smoking law. He said that the law has led to less plagues with passive smoking for the employees in the outdoor industry. This is probably right for the employees who still have a job. A lot of people don't have it today. Bent Höie can only walk across the street to the Tostrup cellar – many other representatives do it sometimes – and talk to the employees there. They have had a reduction in turnover of 80 pst. after the smoking law came, and they have had to cancel many employees. The same applies to other outbuildings that have basement rooms. Bent Höie said that the smoking law had not led to a distortion of competition. With all due respect, I'm not allowed to use expressions like hesitation, but it's quite obvious that it's wrong! There has been a significant distortion of competition in favour of those patios that have access to a table on the pavement – which is therefore on the first floor and is allowed by the municipality to rent space for some tables. In fact, they have a smoking room, even though it may at times be very cold. But those who don't have access to outdoor areas have become the big losers. So saying that the smoking law – you can say a lot about it, and I'm not going to take up the whole debate – has been trouble-free, is a pointless claim, completely without coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e646	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e649	With the danger of extending the debate: the reason I take the floor is that the Minister of Health and Welfare, wisely, chose not to take the floor on this matter, but I will challenge him anyway, because he also represents the Right Party. I have a question for the Minister of Health and Health that it could have been good to get an answer to, and it is about why, among other things. will not be able to support the unattended smoking room system. You actually haven't taken that in at all. And then the question is: The whole purpose of the smoking law was to protect employees and the working environment of employees – I have no problem with that piece – but why do you go against unattended smoking rooms? Then they have just caught up with this problem, for smokers, restaurant owners, restaurant staff and non-smokers. I want to challenge the Council of State at that point. Why can't the Right Party, by the Minister of Health and Welfare, agree that this can be adopted so that you can get rid of some of the distortive effects you see today? It is correct, as the representative Jan Simonsen pointed out in his post: in a restaurant with outdoor dining facilities, the individual guest can actually bring his drinks outside, because it has already been authorised. A restaurant that has not received such an authorisation will encounter distortions of competition because it does not have the same opportunity. I hope the Minister of Health and Health will explain why the Right Party is against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e659	Does the Council of State want the word? - He does!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e662	Yes, you have to use the possibilities you have. It is not that the undersigned, even though he is a Minister of Health and Care, is authorized to account for all matters of the Right in any case. We have just concluded a national meeting where everyone who had something on their heart was given ample opportunity to speak – and there were quite a few, as far as I understood. As far as I have learned, no one at that national meeting made proposals in the context of resolution, in programme work, or in speeches addressed issues related to the great human suffering that have been raised as a consequence of not being able to smoke where they will anymore. That was not the issue. In terms of unofficial smoking rooms and everything you can find in the edge zone of what's the main intention of the smoking law itself, I see no reason to go into it, except to record that the fact that we introduced what we were doing in this area is, as one of the representatives was about earlier, probably the greatest simple step that has been taken to improve public health. I'm pretty sure those people who in the long run get more years of life will be very happy that we did this, and that we didn't reflect more on unserved smoking rooms than we did. I also record that there is an increasing level of satisfaction in the population as such because we have done what we have done. I'm pretty sure in 10-15 years, no one's going up on this pulpit and worrying about the fact that you can't do what you want to do, and put others on both short-term and long-term suffering. So, as I said, you can construct cases in the edge zone of this thing. I think the choice made in its time, related to what you should be allowed to do and what you should not be allowed to do, is quite wise. Nor is it true that there is any significance in relation to jobs – plus, minus. On the contrary, this goes in very many directions, as far as I have heard, according to the professional organizations. As far as I remember, they are quite surprised at the results that are now available. That the Tostrup cellar has less visits than in its glansdays, I don't think has any particular negative impact on public health!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e689	The Social Committee has stated on several occasions and in several cases that we are concerned with patients with rheumatism and musculoskeletal disorders. This is particularly reflected in the so-called public health report. Patients whom we send to treatment abroad must receive good treatment at institutions where safety is ensured and the quality of treatment is good. The institutions we are working with today are well-functioning treatment institutions, and they have the capacity to receive more Nordics for treatment if necessary. The Committee has found reasons to stress that Norwegian patients need to be confident that there are stable political and safety conditions in the country in which they are being treated. The institutions we now use meet these requirements for our patients. As can be seen from the case, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, refer to a letter dated 4 October 2004 from the representative Woie Duesund, asking the Minister of Health and Welfare about the possibility of evaluating climate treatment at the Dead Sea for suffering other than psoriasis, for example. Revmatism. In the response of 13 October of that year, it was reported that a study was conducted with a testing group of psoriasis spaces to the Dead Sea. It appears from the letter of reply that the medical conclusions of the study do not provide any evidence of statistical differences between treatment at the Dead Sea and treatment in the Canary Islands. The majority of the Committee has taken this into account. It also appears that the cost of climate treatment at the Dead Sea was 90 pst. over the costs of treatment in Europe. Factors such as patient satisfaction, long flight journeys, facilities for Norwegian health professionals and the troubled political situation have also been taken into account. The Rikshospitalet is responsible for the purchase of this type of treatment services abroad. Agreements have been provisionally concluded with treatment sites in Turkey, the Canary Islands and Montenegro. A majority of the committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, expresses concern that there has been no extension of the number of patients to the treatment services we already have in Turkey and Igalo. It has been difficult to maintain the former patient population in Igalo. These members consider it important, first and foremost, to ensure the treatment services already established. With this in mind, there is an overall committee which does not wish to support the proposal in Document No. 8:50, but reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e702	When I ask for the floor in this matter, it is because there is a new proposal on the table today, by the representative Jan Simonsen, which is somewhat different from the one originally proposed in Document No. 8:50. When we agree to reject Document No. The 8 proposal has the background that it is the Rikshospitalet that is responsible for the purchase of this type of service abroad and that one has to base the professional assessment and the cost-benefit assessment that they are responsible for in relation to the purchase of this type of space abroad. The offer is very positive, it has a huge gain for those who get to take part in it, and it is therefore important that this is done in such a way that we get the most treatment for the money that the Storting grants to this item of the government budget. This does not mean that the offer at the Dead Sea is excluded from future evaluation — on the contrary, it will be absolutely included in the assessments to be made in the future. That is why I would strongly urge the representative Simonsen to make his new proposal for a transmission proposal, so that the proposal is not downgraded, but can be included in the further work, and that, among other things. The report from the health care community in the Health West thus forms part of the future assessments to be made in relation to the offers we are to provide to patients abroad. These assessments are not made by Stortinget, they are made by the Rikshospitalet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e707	Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders are an increasing problem among those who are sick or become ill. For many, prevention at the workplace, as the IA agreement states, is the best medicine to avoid chronic plagues. Many people need long-term physical treatment and rehabilitation to master a work situation and to avoid a reduction in quality of life. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we build a high level of competence and have sufficient treatment capacity in Norway for this group. In addition, we have always supported the possibility for patients with different diagnostics to have a short-term stay in a warmer climate. The feedback from these treatment trips, or climate travel, as someone calls them, has been good. After the introduction of the treatment travel scheme abroad, the Christian People's Party has been committed to providing a qualitatively good treatment to those travelling. We have therefore supported the use of the Rikshospital to send test groups to different sites to provide optimal help to those in need of treatment. In the last growing-up period, we asked the Rikshospitalet to send a patient group to the Dead Sea. Both Denmark and Germany have had their own treatment departments there for decades because of the unique climate. The result for the Norwegian group was not as good as expected – this, together with the build-up of capacity elsewhere, is much of the cause of today’s negative attitude. The Rikshospitalet is still responsible for selecting the treatment sites to which we should send Norwegian patients. By way of competitive outsourcing under the applicable rules, all treatment sites could compete on a level playing field in relation to the requirements specifications developed. I am one of those who have shown interest in and have been positive about treatment at the Dead Sea. As a result, I asked a question to the Minister of Health on 4 October 2004. I asked about the possibilities to initiate an evaluation of climate treatment in the Dead Sea for diseases other than psoriasis, for example. Arthritis, revmatism and sensitising after polio. In its reply of 13 October 2004, it was informed that a study was conducted with a testing group of psoriatic spaces to the Dead Sea in 1999. This is six years ago, and includes only one diagnosis. I have now been informed that the Ministry of Health and Health has again received an application from the project group in Rogaland for the authorisation of treatment trips to the Dead Sea as part of health trips funded by the State, as Document No. The 8 proposal proposes. On the basis of this application, a new report is now being prepared in February of this year. I think there is reason to look at this report and the possible new information that comes out here, especially with regard to new cost figures. I hope that the Minister of Health and Health welcomes this. The Christian People's Party supports the intention of the representative Simonsen to review the state's purchase of treatment facilities abroad, and hopes that it will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e724	At the time of the first reading of the Committee's position, a few may feel that there is broad political agreement on the conclusion here and that the proposal of the representative, Jan Simonsen, is rejected, as proposed in the resolution. But with regard to the intentions here, and remarks, I'm a little surprised that so many of those who have had the word, now say that we should wait and see, and maybe that's how we should also choose to provide people with treatment at the Dead Sea. It is important that we have good treatment services, especially for our chroniclers, but also for other people with health problems, it may be important to find treatment services outside the country. However, Norwegian patients need to be assured that there are stable political and safety conditions in the area where such treatment is available, in addition to getting a good professional medical offer. This resulted, for example, in: in that for some time the offer of Igalo was severely reduced due to unrest in the area in and around Montenegro. What is now apparent is that we might have to try to find a solution in terms of treatment provision at the Dead Sea – and the trial project there clearly concludes that there is no special medical advantage in the offer. That's the one. And then to what amazes me the most, that the cost of that offer was 90 pst. over the costs of treatment in Europe — and yet one ignores this when, every single time, we get the stress on bids and cost-effectiveness and all that is tone-setting in Norwegian health policy. This applies to everything from emergency preparedness and ambulance services to other things. But here you have to ignore it, and it makes me quite amazed. I am in a note with members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, saying that we are concerned that there has not been a good enough expansion in relation to the number of patients to the institutions with which we have already had long-term agreements, namely in Turkey and Igalo. It is important that a few patients are sent to those who need these offers, also to ensure that the patient service there is maintained. We know that there has been a problem at least with the institutions in Igalo. I think it is important that chroniclers, no matter what kind of diagnosis they have, receive treatment abroad, and that we focus on whether it is rather to always come back to a scheme that, after what I can understand, according to the trial project that has been, is not in line with the other intentions of health policy in terms of costs, safety, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e733	Already today, Norway is sending a number of patients to different treatment sites around Europe. This can be mentioned, for example: Turkey, the Canary Islands, Montenegro and mainland Spain, including Rheumasol. These are patients who sometimes need to get away and be treated under climatic conditions other than what we have in Norway. The representative Simonsen promoted a Document No. Eight proposals for the approval of a treatment offer at the Dead Sea. That is the proposal that the Committee has rejected. The proposal now on the table has a completely different wording. They are asked that, among other things, shall carry out a review and evaluate the report of the professional community in Health West in relation to this offer. Already in connection with the Budget indent. S No 11 for 2004-2005, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to ask the Government to take a closer look at the rehabilitation offer at the Dead Sea. Against this background, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the re-examined proposal tabled by the representative Simonsen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e744	Treatment trips abroad have represented a useful complement to different treatment provision in Norway. It is about the possibility of getting into a different environment, meeting other disciplines that may have a slightly different approach, developing social relationships in a different environment and accessing the sun and heat. It is a tradition we have had in Norway for very many years, that treatment travel arrangements have been in place. This applies to both joint, muscle and skeletal disorders and to various skin disorders. At the same time, it is important to ensure the quality of the offers entered into and parties to the agreement in Norway, because we know that different conditions can occur. In some places, the quality of the professional offer will not be such that it is appropriate to use funds on it. In other places, local conditions may be unsafe, for example: due to acts of war. It may make it unnatural to continue the offer, at least in situations of uncertainty. The Social Committee has visited treatment centres. During the current period, we visited Igalo in Montenegro and looked at the conditions of treatment there. What you can see is a need for predictability if contracts have been concluded, so that those who are to be treated know what they have to do with and can be reasonably confident that the recruitment of health professionals, the development of places, maintenance costs and any additions can be done precisely because you know that you will continue to offer it over time. It would not matter if agreements were to be concluded in new places and expanded there, for those to be given a treatment offer over time would be about the same number. This means that if you continue to expand to new places, it will affect the treatment offered at the place with which you had originally agreed. Therefore, SV is concerned that this type of predictability must exist and that Norway must actively contribute to supporting quality development in the locations where agreements have already been concluded. So you might think that in different contexts you should have a review to see if you're going to get in elsewhere, and if you're going to change what you have, because the quality is not good enough. But it is very inappropriate to make those types of assessments based on a Document No. Eight proposals and one tabled in the Chamber in the morning. This must have a long-termity in it. Therefore, SV supports the submission of the proposal, so that the Government can assess it itself. If it is not sent, we will not support that proposal here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e755	The purpose of treatment travel abroad is to provide a complementary offer to patients with chronic diseases who have demonstrated the benefits of treatment in a warm and sunny climate. It is assumed that the offer is made under sound medical conditions and under Norwegian quality requirements. Revmatians, patients with psoriasis, patients with sensitised poliomyelitis, children and adolescents with asthma and lung disease and children with atopic eczema are now covered by the treatment travel scheme abroad. Some 2,900 patients will receive such an offer in 2005. The Ministry has delegated to the Rikshospitalet HF the day-to-day administration and professional responsibility for the scheme. This mechanism ensures professional evaluation of the treatment sites used and non-discrimination in the evaluation of the patients offered. For the treatment of Inster. S. No 82 for 2003-2004, the position of the Social Committee on the income system for specialist health services, joined the Stortinget. As recommended in NOU 2000:2 — Treatment trips abroad. A public responsibility? – there must now be at least two separate, scientifically acceptable studies confirming the benefit of treatment in a warm and sunny environment for each patient group. A study is currently ongoing to assess whether patients with neuromuscular diseases should also be included in the scheme. It is also in preparation for a study of patients with MS, in line with the Storting decision. The ministry now has a completed study of patients with cerebral paresis for evaluation. As regards the choice of treatment sites, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has asked the Rikshospitalet HF to launch all treatment programmes in line with the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement on Public Procurement. Calls for tenders shall be implemented for all programmes by the end of 2007. This means, in practice, that all treatment sites will be able to compete on a level playing field in relation to the requirements we produce. My overall objective is that the maximum number of patients covered by the scheme will receive a qualitatively good offer within adopted budgetary frameworks. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has again received an application from the project group in Rogaland for the authorisation of treatment trips to the Dead Sea as part of the health trips funded by the State. I would like to ask the Rikshospitalet HF to assess whether there are new professional elements in the application in relation to the patient groups included in the treatment travel scheme abroad. I consider it appropriate that the issue of processing trips to the Dead Sea be assessed by the Rikshospitalet HF in accordance with normal rules on quality control and tenders. To the extent that the representative Simonsen was to follow the request from the representative of Höie to make this proposal a transmission proposal, it would be natural that the report referred to in document No. 8:50, is included in the assessment of what to do for people with chronic arthritis and musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, who have been concerned with the offer available at the Dead Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e772	I'm going to use the few minutes I have to refer to the letter that the committee has received from the county rapporteur in Rogaland. The members of the Committee of the Right, SV, Workers' Party, Christian People's Party and the Centre's Party refer in the nomination to an answer from the Minister of Health and Care in a Question Time where the Council refers to a study with a trial group of psoriatic spaces which did not demonstrate any special advantages in the treatment of the Dead Sea rather than in the treatment of the Canary Islands. According to the county rapporteur in Rogaland, this survey dates from 1999. Then, to the most extent, it's a remarkable argument. The study is over five years old and is about a completely different disease. My proposal therefore concerns a treatment offer for people with chronic arthritis and musculoskeletal disorders. A group in the medical profession at Health Vest has done solid work in this area in cooperation with the world's leading research communities in the field, including: the major university hospitals in Israel. By March 2005, a pilot group carried out a three-week period of treatment at the Dead Sea. The post-stay status report concludes that the stay at the Dead Sea is both more extensive and qualitatively better than similar stays elsewhere, and that costs are also claimed to be low. However, I note that my proposal on free treatment at the Dead Sea has not been accepted by the Committee. I have therefore submitted the following proposals, which have been distributed at the representatives' tables: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the purchase of treatment sites abroad by the State, both for patients with skin diseases and for patients with arthritis and musculoskeletal disorders, and in this review assess the report of the Health West Professional Environment on the treatment and rehabilitation of people with chronic joint disease and musculoskeletal disorders at the Dead Sea.’ I have noticed that the Minister of Health has promised to ask the Rikshospitalet to seriously consider the treatment offer developed by the professional community at Health West. Several representatives of the government parties have also made good representations and expressed the view that a serious assessment should be made. I would therefore like to turn my proposal into a transmission proposal. I take this up with the proposal that has been distributed, while asking for it to be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e792	The representative Jan Simonsen has addressed the proposal he referred to, and also changed it to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e795	I may be a little surprised at the way this debate turned, but I won't be surprised for long. The representative Simonsen now refers to a letter from the county rapporteur in Rogaland. It is well and good, but I find it difficult for a committee to base such a letter. We have to relate to the answer that we have received from the Council of State. If that doesn't lead to correctness, there must be something the Council of State will clean up. Simonsen has now turned the proposal into a transmission proposal, and the Workers' Party can support such a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e821	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e830	It may be a pedagogical challenge to explain both the content of the proposal and the Committee's assessments of the proposal itself, but I will try my best. There are two concepts at the heart of the Committee's review of the matter and the terms "autologous" and "allogeneic" transplantation. I'll try to explain both terms. It might be a good idea to have the image of Marve Flexnes. At first he was a blood donor, he gave a bag of blood for the benefit of humanity, as he expressed it. In many ways he was then an allogeneic giver, so he was supposed to give blood, but he wasn't primarily supposed to have the blood back himself. Then he was exposed to a relatively de minimis event and came back in. When he was transfused, it turned out that it was his own blood that he received. It's an autologous blood transfusion. Now it's not about normal blood transfusions in this proposal, but it's about the preservation of umbilical cord blood. umbilical cord blood occurs naturally enough in connection with a birth, such as the blood that is in the umbilical cord. There have been long research on stem cells from both unborn and born individuals. So the cells you get from the umbilical cord blood are a kind of cells that you can turn into another type of tissue in your body, and that's called stem cells. What the rapporteurs are referring to here is a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that, by means of food departments/health businesses, the birthing women who wish to do so are able to have blood from the umbilical cord drained, frozen and stored in a quality manner, with a view to the possible future use of stem cells in the treatment of disease.’ So today, private companies offer storage, freezing, of the kind of blood we're talking about here, stem cells from umbilical cord blood. But because the woman is born in a public maternity ward or maternity ward, caring for these blood products properly will be a challenge for the health professionals there. Thus, at the intersection of private and public authorities, there is a challenge in relation to guidelines and driving rules for this. We know that the government today is developing that kind of guidelines. The Committee took note of the work being carried out and asked for it to be completed quickly. It will in many ways solve the challenge we face in relation to private companies that there are clear guidelines: hospitals and feeding centres will know what to do with, if the offer is to be used. So the question is, are you going to stimulate the establishment of that kind of bank under the government's control? Here we have received professional assessments that are quite clear that you should not. Blood to be returned to the individual who gave it, and this type of blood products, have so little value that it can have nothing to do with establishing that type of biobank. On the other hand, on a global scale, there are 21 biobanks that are involved in so-called allogeneic transplantation, i.e. giving blood to people with the same tissue type can be used. It is thoughtful that Norway, as we have decided, should be a priority country in terms of the use of stem cells from born individuals, so little initiative is taken to further develop this. It is not that the majority of the committee has called for biobanks for umbilical cord blood to be established in general, but we have said that it must be stored in a way that allows one to research it even after having kept it for a few years. I have recorded that last week in our country there was a suggestion that Professor Steinar Funderud criticises the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, because it is thought that this is completely unnecessary. I have a great deal of respect for the professional environments that operate with that kind of research, and I'm very sensitive to objections, but I think the criticism that comes from the professional environments here depends on a misunderstanding. It won't be possible to have a research on what the majority are looking for, namely, whether it's possible to use these cells after a good few years, without somehow keeping them for a few years, and then taking them up to re-search them. It is in the nature of the matter that when the majority says so strongly that we should organise that kind of research, the majority will also stress that there is money to do it. Thus, research in this area is not in conflict with the need for a proper storage of the material. This also does not mean that wherever women feed they should be stimulated to create that type of biobank, but that they should have a limited amount of biological material that can be used for such research. Then it will be up to the Government to make the necessary investigation to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e854	The proposal and the setting of the possible use of frozen blood collected from umbilical cords tell something about the potentials of biotechnology and the potentials of research and use of stem cells. The proposal and setting also tells us something about the hopes that the results of such research give us in terms of new treatment for diseases. Hopes lie in the potential ability of stem cells to develop into different cells and tissues. Many suggest that stem cells that are packed, frozen and stored correctly may retain the ability to develop into specified cells for several years. In view of such possibilities, it is not unnatural for parents to want to freeze the umbilical cord blood as an insurance for their child in the event of later illness or damage. That parents agree to offers from private biobanks for the storage of umbilical cord blood is an expression that one, understandably, does all that one can to secure his child and give it the best conditions of life. However, one must be careful to describe hopes for future possible treatments as if these are current realities, and in any case one should be careful to market hope in a way that makes one believe that these are processes that we currently control. However, the realisation of the potential of frozen umbilical cord blood, nine-time, extensive and resource-intensive research, is conditional. In this area, as in other areas of biotechnology, it must be prudent to oversell knowledge so far as it has been achieved — overselling by equalising the current situation, or the actual status of a research area, with a view in the future to achieving it. First, such oversales could create unrealistic hopes for those who are sick and need treatment now. Secondly, in the event of an oversale, one could easily underestimate the extensive and resource-intensive research to be undertaken before the target is reached. There is a lot of evidence that marketing from private operators who offer to keep frozen umbilical cord blood is an expression of such oversolding. Furthermore, there is considerable uncertainty as to how long such stem cells can be stored and the likelihood of using their own frozen stem cells is per. today still small. However, as a starting point, parents who want to have their umbilical cords drained from their newborn child should be allowed to do so, but at the same time it is necessary to convey a realistic picture of what opportunities this can give, and what knowledge we have per. today. This realism is important to have. But it's just as important to lay the groundwork for your hopes, and the potential opportunities you see can be realized. Such realization can only be ensured through continued intensive research, and by providing good enough general framework conditions for stem cell research, so that Norwegian research can be competitive. The establishment of a Norwegian biobank for frozen umbilical cord blood will be an important element of such a research policy. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is asking for this, and we believe that such a proposed biobank could be an important element in a broad range of stem cell research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e869	With regard to the original proposal in the case, I would like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and to the work being done by the Government to ensure guidelines for this type of activity at the public food clinics. However, the case has received a slightly different version of the proposal put forward by the majority today that the Stortinget asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of a biobank in the framework of umbilical cord blood research. This is a proposal that has created amazement far outside this house, as it seems like one here in advance has decided that one needs such a bank, and then one has tried to find arguments for it. The arguments have become narrower and narrower as the case has progressed. Finally, one believes that one should set up this bank because one should have a future research on the consequences of the freezing of umbilical cord blood and its use in retrospect. It is quite special that the Storting here chooses to go to such a decision that a request from the Government facilitates the creation of a biobank that no professional community has asked for, and as one of our leading professionals in research on stem cells from umbilical cord blood calls for ‘dum action’ in our country last Friday. The challenge for this environment is not that they lack access to umbilical cord blood. The challenge is to get enough resources to research stem cells from umbilical cord blood. It is also a priority task for the Government and the reason why one in the 2005 State budget has allocated 9 million. kr for this type of research. However, the fact that the Storting chooses to go directly to such a decision without asking for an investigation or an assessment of the need for such a bank can only be an expression of the need to show it to one who can call for action in an area, without necessarily seeing a clear need for it. It's a shame, because it'll both turn resources away from what should probably be given priority, while at the same time putting the Storting in a slightly strange light compared to the decisions we make here. I would therefore strongly urge the majority to turn I in the proposal for a decision into a transmission proposal, so that one can get a good professional assessment as to whether this is a priority area of research, and an area in which the researchers themselves believe they need a biobank. Otherwise, those resources should be used in a more targeted way than can now be at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e886	If the Government is not able to show the power of action, at least the Storting will show the necessary power of action – also in this field! The Progress Party believes that it is wrong for Norway – as the Stortinget has decided to be a preliminary country for research on stem cells from born individuals, of which umbilical cord blood is such cells – to be a spectator in relation to the research effort that is being undertaken in many countries. In connection with Innst. O. No 71 for 2003-2004 the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to investigate the establishment of biobanks for umbilical cord blood and to refer the matter to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2005. This deadline may seem impossible today, but the intentions of the majority of Storting should continue to work with the Government. I believe, therefore, that the Government must, to a far greater extent than in the past, facilitate increased research efforts in line with the Storting decision in different fields. The government should also assess whether the need for a separate national biobank for umbilical cord blood is necessary, or whether the quality of the private banks on the market is such as to ensure that mothers who choose to freeze umbilical cord blood can reasonably be confident that this is done in a professionally sound manner. The use of umbilical cord blood by your own family causes minor problems in connection with tissue compromise during treatment. Therefore, it is a great advantage for an allogeneic transplant to use stem cells from the immediate family. This is also the main intention of the proposal in Document No. 8:54. As the Progress Party sees it, public health should not prevent families who, in this way, want to take part in the future health of their family. On the other hand, the Progress Party does not believe that funding for the collection of umbilical cord blood and freezing at that time should be a public responsibility. However, it should and must be a public responsibility to facilitate such collection of umbilical cord blood by all our maternity wards and maternity wards. The umbilical cord blood must be drained either by private operators on the market or with the assistance of the hospital and the maternity centre's own personnel. The cost of such assistance to each maternity ward is entirely marginal and should not be used as an argument against providing such assistance to the mothers. I am pleased that, in a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Health expressly states that this offer is to be made at all public hospitals and feeding centres and that guidelines are now being developed in this way. I would, however, strongly warn against the imposition of an obligation on the woman to meet in advance for guidance by the individual gynecologist at the various food departments. This may lead to an unfortunate and negative influence on the woman who asks for guidance by gynecologists who do not believe in the matter or who are not interested in the matter. For example, a woman who is called for guidance at the National Food Department, which initially closed this possibility, might receive negative guidance. In my opinion, there shall be no requirement for the pregnant woman in advance to have an hour of guidance for the collection of umbilical cord blood. It must be up to the individual woman herself whether or not she wants such guidance. I would particularly like to stress this to the Minister of Health and Care. When it is claimed from some professional teams that it may be a problem to let others into the maternity ward, for example a fully educated, qualified midwife to tap this umbilical cord blood, it is a subversive argument that does not have its roots in the real world, but in pure disgust from special professional interests. In line with the Minister of Health’s letter, Stortinget should state that it is essential that conditions be established to enable pregnant women who want to have blood from the umbilical cord to be drained, frozen and stored for possible future treatment use in all food departments and feeding rooms in the country. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e903	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e906	In the matters that are being dealt with in this room, the starting point is always a clearly registered need we as elected representatives want to cover. This does not seem to me to be the case in today's debate. It seems to me that the opposite is the case, as if it were a multiple in the social committee that has itself notified a need – the need for a biobank. The Christian People's Party thought this was a strange procedure. The Christian People's Party opposes the establishment of a biobank to facilitate research on stem cells. In this case, it is not the researchers of stem cells who have reported a need, and the case spokesman himself pointed out a report in our country that confirms this. Researchers today have access to stem cells from umbilical cord blood that they need. Nor is it, as far as I can see, clear arguments either economically or professionally behind the establishment of a biobank. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the need for such a biobank may need to be outsourced medically before considering joining such an establishment. Research on adult stem cells has been a field of activity in Norway since the accession of the Cooperation Agency. In 2005, as the representative Höie said, 9 million were raised. kr for this purpose. The umbilical cord blood is one of several sources of adult stem cells, and to the extent that the research environment has sought access to stem cells from umbilical cord blood, it has been possible to obtain it in cooperation with the maternity wards and with the consent of the pregnant women. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the need for such a research biobank should be considered professionally before the Stortinget makes a decision on the creation. The paradox in the decision that is being taken today is that it can lead to the creation of a biobank that may not be needed by funds that have produced greater results in direct research. In the debate on the future use of umbilical cord blood, it may seem from some quarters that freezing stem cells is a life insurance for the child and a solution to all future diseases. As a hindrance, it is important to take into account that calculations show that there are minimal chances – 0,005 pst. the Committee has written in its configuration – in order for the children to need their own stem cells for treatment in the future. In both domestic and foreign medical settings, there is some evidence that the use of own umbilical cord blood has no place in medical treatment today. This was also drawn by the representative of the Labour Party. It has, as far as I am aware, never been published any result from such a treatment. Thus, the transplantation of stem cells from its own umbilical cord is not currently an established treatment provision, and it is also uncertain to what extent it will be in the future. If an order to the public health service to contribute to the collection of umbilical cord blood and the freezing of stem cells, the Christian People's Party is afraid that it may be involved in giving increased legitimacy to this as a professionally documented and good measure that all future parents should take. The public can thus contribute to creating a false sense of security for parents in relation to their children, while what will actually happen is that private actors tend to put money on pregnant women's insecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e921	For most politicians, not least here in Stortinget, it is a task to be predictable – and predictable enough. To be able to do so, we sometimes have to rely on professional advice and professional assessments. In this case, at least the medical-professional advice and assessments are quite unambiguous. The consultation note of the Medical Association of 4 April 2005 states that neither Norway nor the rest of the world is considered to be in need of such a bank or method of treatment as outlined in the proposal. The representative, Osmundnes, was also concerned that later in life a newborn child’s need for his own stem cells is considered to be very small. The calculations show a probability of 0.005 pst. You have to be humble in terms of statistics and use it for everything it's worth. However, my dilemma in prediction is to assess the need for a biobank for umbilical cord blood against the need for resources to research adult stem cells, which is an established field of cellular research in Norway. That is what the majority in this Chamber has said. The rapporteur was concerned that stem cells had to be available for such research. I agree. However, based on the professional assessments I am based on here, it is not a particular problem that you do not have enough stem cells available. I believe that the system that is now being set up, and which we need to get guidelines for experimentation, will give us a very large cell material based on umbilical cord blood that we can research, to see how it is possible to use it further in the good medical service in the future. In terms of both autologous and allogeneic transplants, I think that what you get from stem cells from umbilical cord blood will be sufficient. The central party's assessment is at least that the resources now available should be used primarily for research and should not be tied up in a bank that may require more resources than is desirable, because most of the resources should be used to look at what these stem cells can provide of medical options. There is no problem getting stem cells from umbilical cord blood today. As it is today, we have, among other things, hospitals collecting this. In cooperation with maternity wards and with the consent of the natives themselves, stem cells will be available for such use in the future. I was involved in guidelines for the interaction between the public and private sectors. This is important to obtain the best possible results. I also believe that the resources used by the public health service should be quantified, and look at how much money is spent on this, such as hospitals, maternity wards and feeding rooms, so that you can see whether the cost-benefit value is also consistent with the other cost-benefit value, which is now very stressful in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e934	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e937	The government is therefore supported by the majority of the Committee in order to have guidelines for sampling. The government should be happy about that. So it is that a majority in this room has clearly said that Norway should be far ahead of the world – we have, to say the most advanced in the world – in terms of research on stem cells from newborns. The source of stem cells is precisely umbilical cord blood as well as bone marrow. Producing Norway as a precursor country when it is estimated that 9 million. and expresses the concern that a material to be available in 10 years' time is not a believer. This means that the government is going into decisions that they have no plans at all to follow up. That's what's real here. It is clear that here we are trying to present it as if the research communities are initially opponents of getting more resources available. It's all wrong. What the research community is concerned about, of course, is whether you have a government that does not want to bet any more – contrary to the decision taken by Stortinget – and then you have to use scarce means to risk having to divide it into more tasks. If the Government is to be a believer in the decision of the Government itself, this must necessarily be developed in fields where access to material is available. It's about umbilical cord blood. This has nothing to do with conflicting with the research environments. If the research communities know that they get money, that you get the opportunity to store material and then thaw it up, look at the cell division of the material and develop it further, it's clear that the research communities will follow it up. The problem is that the research community knows that you have a government that, unlike what it says, is not willing to bet on it at all. Therefore, the Government should follow up policy decisions taken by the Storting rather than use a lot of energy to counter it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e955	Then the Storting is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e963	During the debate May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the rules so that the quarantine period for political management and officials and officials may exceed 6 months if the selection is deemed to prolong the quarantine period.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1476	During the debate, Britt Hildeng put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government, by regulation or by other means, to ensure that the municipality of residence, prior to entering the crisis centre, is responsible for the reimbursement of the costs of municipal services during the temporary stay in the crisis centre.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1502	In the course of the debate, Mr Glötvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan to reduce sugar consumption among children and young people.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1528	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to Law No 9 March 1973. 14 on protection against tobacco damage in order to allow unattended smoking rooms at the country's tipping and serving points.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1536	I guess that's not right about alternative voting here, President, because what's in original Document No. The 8 proposal, it's something other than what's in my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1543	That's right, but we'll do it like that anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1564	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal. In the course of the debate, the author asked for the proposal to be transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a review of the purchase of treatment sites abroad by the State, both for patients with skin diseases and for patients with arthritis and musculoskeletal disorders, and, in this review, evaluate the report of the health care community in the Health West on the treatment and rehabilitation of people with chronic joint disease and musculoskeletal disorders at the Dead Sea.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1588	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that, by means of food departments/health businesses, the birthing women who wish to do so are able to have blood from the umbilical cord drained, frozen and stored in a quality manner, with a view to the possible future use of stem cells in the treatment of disease.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1609	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-10.ana.ud1777e1643	There is no record.
