ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e37	I have to be very short. The proposal in Document No. 8:40 for 2004-2005, promoted by the representatives Hedstrøm, Knudsen and Sandberg of the Progress Party, is short about imposing a reporting obligation on operators in the daily food industry. This proposal was strongly motivated by the public debate in connection with the Tine case this winter. Since it was clear that the proposal would not be supported by any party other than the proponents' own, the Progress Party, the Committee agreed to reject the proposal, without considering it in substance and without going into any further justification. In this context, I think it is natural to note that the Stortinget adopted a new competition law as late as one year ago, with broad support from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e50	The daily food market in Norway is highly concentrated. The four largest chains represent a total market share of 99 pst. At the same time, there are very dominant suppliers in the product markets on which they operate. Some of these suppliers have also been entrusted with administrative powers. This applies, inter alia, to Gilde, Tine and Prior. At the same time, it is clear that daily food prices in Norway are well above what is the case in other countries. At the same time, the selection in Norwegian shops is usually worse than in shops in other countries. Earlier this year, disclosures were made with regard to contracts concluded between suppliers of goods and the food chain. It has been estimated that food chains will receive in hidden amounts of billions of annual from suppliers. The transfers are given a number of different labels and there are different conditions attached to them. Such transfers may be problematic in relation to the applicable competition, corruption, etc. legislation. The common feature of the transfers is that they are not known to anyone other than those involved. Therefore, any illegality becomes difficult to detect. In Document No: 8:40 nr. for 2004-2005, which we are dealing with today, the Progress Party has put forward a legislative proposal to improve the transparency of the benefits and conditions provided, and more transparent conditions both by suppliers and in the food chain. The proposal also calls for the establishment of control mechanisms to help identify the benefits and conditions that have been provided. However, we must say that we are disappointed that the other parties are passive in this matter. It's obvious that there are conditions that you don't deserve in the industry. But the majority seems to be not interested in correcting this. The proposal of the Progress Party is dismissed with a button line. We must then note that so much means Norwegian consumers and food prices for the majority in this matter. We have to add that when you choose not to go into the proposals of the Progress Party, it is difficult to complain about high food prices and poor conditions in the daily food industry in Norway. I refer to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e67	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e77	The odelsting shall then vote on case No.1.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e85	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 5 March 2004 12 on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations II Law No 5 March 2004 12 on competition and control of concentrations is amended as follows:New Section 23a is replaced by the following:The reporting obligation, the publication and control of operators in the food sector Competition supervision shall impose an annual reporting obligation on the main suppliers and food chains in the food sector. [[Competition Act]] [[Competition Act]] The reporting obligation shall include, inter alia: include all value transfers between those actors. Each value transfer shall be allocated in proportion to the product to which it relates. The reporting obligation may also include the product-specific costs of an actor allocated to each product, if requested by the Competition Authority. Competition supervision shall review and control the reported material received.Competition supervision shall publish annually relevant information from the reportable material which is presumed to be of public interest. Competition supervision may, in specific cases, decide that information shall be disclosed in spite of the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by law. The operator shall be informed of such decisions prior to publication.Competition supervision may, by regulation, lay down detailed rules on the aspects of this provision. the title of Chapter 5 is replaced by the following: Chapter 5. The first paragraph of Article 28 shall be replaced by the following:In order to ensure that individual decisions complying with this Act and with the requirements of Sections 23a and 24, the Competition Surveillance Authority may provide that the decision to which it is addressed shall pay a standing fine to the State until such time as the latter is corrected. § 29, first paragraph, point (c) shall be replaced by the following:(c) shall not comply with the requirements of Sections 23a, 24 or 25, § 30, first paragraph, point (c) shall be replaced by the following: Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26-lower.ana.ud337e169	There is no record.
