ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e22	Honourable co-representatives! It's hard to welcome the new year. Rarely has it been more difficult to open the Spring of Great. We all bear the mark of the worst natural disaster of our time. The enormous suffering and destruction, the victims and the relatives have come close to us in life -- they've become part of our everyday lives. We've all felt the pain. All of us have known the emptiness and powerlessness. The disaster puts deep and lasting traces in all of us. The number of the dead and missing has reached an indescribable size. The destruction is almost impossible to grasp. The river wave has hit so many people and so large areas that it's barely intelligible. The Northmen who were on vacation were torn away in the waves. A lot of people died. Many were injured. Many have suffered great suffering and grief. Too many in our country are going to be the heaviest year ever. For people and countries of Southeast Asia, life has changed dramatically to worse. Without warning, hundreds of thousands of people have been killed or injured. Millions have lost all their possessions - millions of people have lost their livelihoods. The disaster is so great that it is too many totals. And in the midst of the disaster, we experience hope and faith in the future. The helpfulness shown by the inhabitants of the affected countries by our countrymen, tourists from other countries and each other is impressive and impressive. The way they started the difficult relief work in Thailand, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and India, sets an example for all of us. Here, too, it's impressive to see people's spirit of virtue and willingness to give. Each individual giver shows through his participation that people of today think not only of themselves but share with each other when distress strikes. The disaster erases national borders. When the distress is great, the help must come from an entire world. Regardless of latitude and longitude, regardless of religion or politics, we show that we can help each other. We inhabit the same soil, and it's in common effort and in common we can help. The scale of the disaster is so enormous that it will also be about perseverance in giving and aid work. Large resources are needed to help the victims for a long time to come. The UN is the leader of the work, and the voluntary aid organisations are in the process of deploying their professional devices. But the extensive destructions that have taken place will require long-term efforts, from the UN, from the Norwegian state and from each of the Nordics. On behalf of the Stortinget I would also like to thank the many who had to move out and assist as best they could. Words become poor toward grief, toward those who have lost their lives, and toward those who have lost their loved ones. We share the pain and grief with those who are affected. Our thoughts go to relatives and to those who are injured. We feel for those who live in uncertainty because their closest ones are missing. Living with the uncertainty is a great feeling, and we share their feeling. In common we must share the difficult time with each other, and we must support each other in a time of sorrow and rest, despair and pain. We have to stick together and care for each other for the weeks and months ahead. Our common auxiliaries at home have to show the necessary care and flexibility to help those who are affected, especially now in the first place. ‘If you stop smiling and don’t help each other, your heart is confused’ said a Thai woman who was interviewed. She had lost her loved ones and was in the middle of the relief work for Norwegian and Swedish tourists. She put words on why she--who had even lost everything--did so much for others. In grief she also radiated warmth and commitment to her fellow humans. Our promise for the new year must be that we should all be fellow human beings in the right sense of the word. Each of us has to show care, care for each other, and share the bad things with each other -- even in everyday life, not only when the disaster occurs. The year 2005 starts with sadness, but also promises new opportunities. Let's remember the many victims with two minutes of silence. We bring peace to their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e63	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Siri Hall Arnøy, Morten Højlund, Ågot Valle, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Brother Yngve Rahm, Ivar Østberg and Hans Kristian Hogsnes, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Jørund Leknes, has taken the seat. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended in respect of the schedule of the meetings of the day and tomorrow so that today's scheduled meeting in Odelstinget is moved to Tuesday 11 January. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. - It's supposed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e111	Three words express what we feel about the river-wave disaster in Asia on the second Christmas day: sorrow, cohesion and thanks-- grief over all the people who have died, togetherness because we have to stand together to help, and thank you for so many have done so much and given so much. This is a huge disaster that has done something to all of us. It leaves a lot of sleep and pain, but it also triggers a lot of commitment, care and greed. The flood wave hit the countries of south- and south-east Asia particularly hard, but it also reached land on the east coast of Africa. The number of deaths is approaching 160,000 people, but there is fear that the number will rise. Over 1 million have become homeless. In addition to the victims of death, the river wave has destroyed entire coastal communities, with homes, schools, businesses and communications. Unbelievably many in these countries have lost their livelihoods. Norway has strong human ties with this region. Many of our immigrants have families and friends in land affected by the natural disaster. Many Northmen who ferried in the area were hit hard, and more had to be considered dead. Someone probably never gets their love home. Let me initially give three reflections before I go into Norwegian efforts to deal with the disaster. Firstly, those who were in the earthquake-capped areas of Indonesia and in the coastal zones where the subsequent river wave struck were hit without warning. No one from the outside could therefore save them. The first lifesaving heroic acts were performed by those who were there but who themselves escaped death. Both holiday guests and locals showed personal courage and haste to save lives. The rest of us owe it to them! Secondly, the aid provided by the country’s own authorities and volunteers during the first few hours could not have been done for them by anyone else. In particular, I would like to highlight and thank you for the help and hospital treatment that many Norwegian injured people received in Thailand. Third, the rest of the world didn't come in until later. We came to help our own, but also to help the many who live there and were hit. Faced with such a disaster, we all need to take in the enormous scale it had, and be willing to learn to better deal with future crises. It is in this perspective that I will explain in more detail the Norwegian response to the river wave disaster. Work is still in progress. This will therefore be a preliminary status report for the work done so far by the Norwegian side. A statement at this time cannot cover all aspects of the work that has been carried out. The presentation is based on the information that it has been possible to obtain so far. The time also does not allow me to go into all the details. First, something about the organisation and coordination of work at home and outside. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs received the first warning of the disaster at 1 p.m. 05.10, second Christmas day. On the same day, a number of measures were taken: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately contacted the embassy in Bangkok, as at 5 p.m. 06.50 confirmed that there was a serious situation, and that one immediately looked at the possibilities of going out to the affected area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ warning procedures for serious accidents abroad were then initiated. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were informed the same morning and then regularly updated and included in the overall decisions. The first meeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs crisis loss was also held on the morning of the second Christmas day. In accordance with the Government’s principles for crisis management, as previously explained in wholesale notifications, the coordination responsibility for the management of the disaster was immediately assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the disaster occurred abroad. The embassy in Bangkok called in all the available personnel when they realized the disaster. The embassies of New Dehli, Colombo, Dhaka, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur were also notified. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ crisis loss, the Ministry’s caseworker guard, such as Mr. receive and follow up enquiries, within a few hours reinforced by 12 persons. Even after 8:00 p.m. 12 a press release was issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, providing information on five telephone numbers that could be used for issues related to the flood disaster. During the third Christmas day, a further 12 telephone lines were opened. The Ministry established a second holiday contact with the Swedish, Danish and Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the exchange of information. The Minister of Development, the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Justice were also informed on the day of disaster. It was the same day at 4 p.m. 12 decisions taken to trigger the first emergency aid allocation, so that the voluntary organisations had sufficient financial security to start their immediate relief work. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Directorate of Social and Health started their emergency treatment on the second day of Christmas. The Directorate began work on preparing the delivery of emergency equipment and health-care equipment and on sending health professionals to disaster areas to deal with damage and provide safe home transport. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has been prepared from the second Christmas day and in continuous contact with all counties to coordinate and disseminate information from central authorities. On Christmas Day, H.M. King and I, as Prime Minister, sent condolence telegrams to disaster-torn countries. At home, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out a visit from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 3rd Christmas Day coordination meetings with the Prime Minister's office, the departments concerned and state agencies. There were also daily meetings with the travel industry and insurance companies. There has been coordination between the Nordic governments at all stages of the disaster and the relief work. I have also been in contact with my Nordic colleagues on a regular basis, and I am travelling with some of them to Thailand on 15-18 January. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was strengthened by representatives from the Government Crisis Information Unit on Christmas Day. Daily press conferences have been held at one or more government members between the third Christmas day and 5 January. Central authorities have provided an overview of implemented and planned actions with regular updates, including: when using the Internet. Representatives from the Government met with the parliamentary leaders on 30 December and 3 January, and there will be a new meeting later today. As the notifications provided more information on the magnitude of the disaster, it became clear that Norwegian capacity near the site of injury had to be strengthened. On the very day of the disaster, it was decided to strengthen the embassies in Bangkok with two people. During the next three days, nine more people travelled. In the evening of the second Christmas day, the embassy in Bangkok had two people in place in Phuket. A temporary embassy office was set up in Phuket on Christmas 3rd, while personnel were assigned to Khao Lak and Krabi. Starting New Year’s Eve, the embassy office in Phuket conducted daily information meetings with police, health professionals and a pastor. A relatives' centre was established in Phuket's first New Year's Day. From the initial emergency phase, where the main thing was to get an overview of and help the Nordics abroad, we gradually moved across to a stage where there was the greatest need to help the people who had come home to Norway, and the relatives here at home. The Government therefore decided on 3 January - in line with established crisis management principles - to transfer the coordination responsibility from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Health and Welfare as the most concerned department. So something about assistance to the injured. During the first few days, an increasingly clear picture of the magnitude of the disaster was found, and it became clear that many of the North could have been affected by the disaster. Norwegian personnel in Thailand prioritised the work of finding Norwegian victims and harmed Norwegians who needed help, as well as the search for children who had lost or had not found their parents again. Damaged patients were continuously transferred to hospitals within the country by local authorities after first treatment. Deaths were collected, among others. in temples. As a result, the work of reviewing the hospitals and collection centres of the deceased has gradually become increasingly demanding. At the initiative of Norway, all hospitals in southern Thailand were surveyed in cooperation between the Nordic countries. This was an extensive task. Only in Bangkok is it over 100 hospitals. At the same time as this search had to contribute to the registration of missing and deceased persons, information and other assistance to relatives, assistance for exceptional return visits for very many who wanted it, and the organisation of transport by patient aircraft for those who could not cope with the usual journey. On Christmas 3rd, the Norwegian health authorities decided to send a medical team with expertise in surgery, emergency medicine and psychiatry to Thailand. The team traveled the next day. The main task was to locate Norwegian citizens admitted to local hospitals and to prepare them for home transport. Further two teams with psychiatry and emergency medicine expertise travelled on 30 and 31 December to assist with medical and psychosocial support to the North in the disaster area. There will still be a need for Norwegian health professionals to be present for some time to assist the embassy staff and other Nordics working in the area. A total of between 60 and 70 Norwegian health workers have participated outside the country’s borders. These come from the regional health companies and from the health of the defence. In addition, volunteer doctors and other health professionals have contributed in Thailand and in Sri Lanka. Overall, as far as we know, it has been hospitalized in excess of 50 patients in Norwegian hospitals after the flood disaster. The vast majority are now printed out. At the direction of the health authorities, the defense organised the two specially equipped patient aircraft that have been engaged in shuttle traffic between Thailand and the Scandinavian countries. The first flight was requested on the third Christmas day and left Oslo on the 29th of December. A total of 138 patients are transported by patient aircraft. 50 of these are Norwegian, the others mainly from Sweden. A health team was also sent to welcome and assist the Nordics as a country in Stockholm, while embassy staff and volunteers both there and in Gothenburg, Malmö and Copenhagen assisted the Norwegians in transit. So some words about dealing with the dead. Norway sent two expert groups to Thailand and Sri Lanka on Wednesday 29 December to identify the deceased. The groups were later strengthened with defence personnel and cooperate closely with experts from other countries. As the deaths are identified, we will provide transport home as soon as possible in cooperation with the Thai authorities. This work is difficult and time consuming. We also have to be prepared that many dead people will never be found. The situation in Thailand was particularly challenging due to the large number of Norwegian tourists there. Already in the morning of the second Christmas day, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs established contact with the travel industry department of the General Organisation for Trade and Services and European Travel Insurance. The next day, the Norwegian authorities were briefed on the work of tour operators to obtain the necessary extra aircraft to get people home. The industry did not then request any assistance from the Norwegian authorities to provide air transport services. On Tuesday morning, 28 December, the tour operators of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed them that they were unable to obtain the required flight capacity, and they therefore requested the assistance of the Norwegian authorities to get everyone who wanted it home. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs contacted the Swedish and Danish ministries of foreign affairs immediately after the meeting on Tuesday, and a joint enquiry was addressed to SAS. That same evening, a scheme of SAS was established for the first time 10 additional flights. So, about the reception of the returnees to Norway. On the evening of the third Christmas day, Gardermoen established a health shelter for the returnees from the affected areas. At six other major aerodromes, equivalently, Tuesday 28th and Wednesday 29th December was established. Over 3,500 persons from the affected areas arrived in a few days from Norwegian airports. The reception at the Gardermoen was extended on Wednesday 29 December to accommodate the large groups who came by charter aircraft. Passengers were offered food, clothing and contact with health professionals. In addition, a number of public and voluntary actors contributed to this work. Children’s professional competence has been present at all the aerodromes concerned. One important task at Gardermoen was to assist and protect passengers and relatives. Those who wanted it were taken by bus to the airport hotel, where the Civil Defense Agency operated a care centre using staff from Mental Health's helpline. Between 200 and 300 persons, both passengers and relatives, have made use of the offer. So on assistance to relatives and local authorities in Norway. The counties, regional health establishments and municipalities are well prepared for the follow-up of persons affected by accidents or disasters. Several support centres have been established for relatives around the country. They have a special focus on children. A national emergency number has been established for returnees of relatives, survivors and health professionals. This is linked to a district psychiatric centre in each health region. In addition, several municipalities have established local emergency telephone numbers for their inhabitants. Decision-makers have been asked to contact all those who have come home from the affected areas. The psychosocial teams of refugees and asylum seekers in regional health businesses are now making contact with local minority communities. The Minister for Health and Welfare has met with representatives of non-governmental organisations and relatives who have been established following other disasters or major accidents. Representatives from various immigrant organisations and communities also participated in the meeting. The Ministry of Health and Welfare cooperates with the Red Cross to encourage relatives who may wish to set up support groups etc. and will provide financial support for the work. Adapted information and guidance has been sent to county officials, regional health companies and municipalities on the follow-up of persons affected by accidents and disasters. They made their own arrangements to meet children in schools and kindergartens when they met after the holiday. The children’s, youth and family budget, in cooperation with local authorities, has established preparedness for children who have lost one or both parents. All the country's family protection offices are ready to support and help individuals and families. There are more than 30,000 inhabitants in Norway who are either themselves from or have parents from countries in Asia, more or less affected by the flood disaster. We are in contact with the immigrant communities to address their needs, and we are constantly assessing the measures to be offered to affected immigrants in Norway. In addition, information material is translated into the language concerned. The flood disaster has resulted in a number of actions under the responsibility of several departments. Some of the measures have already been implemented and new measures may be needed. Not all of these costs could be covered within given appropriations. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will therefore promote a proposal for the necessary additional appropriations for 2005 in the first half of February. Then about economic and legal assistance. The loss of a spouse, parent or child is a major personal loss and has financial consequences for the individual affected. A number of schemes and service measures have therefore been put in place from both public and private sources to assist stakeholders in issues related, inter alia, to: social security and insurance. Persons directly affected by the disaster and their immediate relatives may have an increased need for legal assistance. In these cases, free legal aid may be granted. The Ministry of Justice has sent a briefing to the county officials on how this can be handled. In order to give rise to the right to benefits for missing persons, a death penalty or a conviction is required. Such matters will be prioritised by the police and the courts. So, about registration of missing persons. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the Nordics abroad and received enquiries about a large number of potential missing or dead Norwegians. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs received and registered all relevant information. It was constantly stressed that there was considerable uncertainty about the figures and information that the Ministry had outsourced to the public. This situation was not peculiar to Norway. All countries with citizens in the area concerned have had significant changes in the estimates for missing and deceased persons. The registration work had a far greater purpose than making a missing list. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was also to obtain an overview of the situation of the Nordics in the areas concerned, whether they were in contact with them, whether they were in good condition, or whether they were missing or dead. The first lists of personal data were sent from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to New Kripos in the evening on the second Christmas day, and lists were sent regularly. On 30 December, responsibility for registration was transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the police with a coordination responsibility at New Kripos. New Kripos published the list of missing persons on 3 January, while stressing that the list was not final. The decision to publish the list was the result of a difficult balance. It may be a great burden for relatives to experience that persons are misinformed on such a list. On the other hand, experience from both Denmark and Finland showed that publication of the list led to the rapid deletion of many names. The same thing happened in Norway. The police removed the list of names from their websites last Friday for the sake of the relatives and because the police no longer need to investigate the fact that the list is on the Internet. The police will now operate with only two categories: the number of missing persons and the number of identified deaths. New Kripos will continue to publish updated information on its website. So, about Norwegian aid work. The government has placed great emphasis on speeding up the delivery of humanitarian aid. In the first few days, a total of 100 million were set aside. available for emergency work. From the outset, we have had close contact with the UN and close cooperation with the Red Cross movement and Norwegian non-governmental organisations already established in the area. However, the enormous challenges we are facing cannot be tackled within the 2005 aid budget without at the expense of aid to other poor countries. The Government therefore submitted on Friday a proposal for an additional allocation of DKK 1 billion to assist in the wake of the flood disaster. I have the honour, on behalf of the Government, to make a proposal on the President's table for assistance in connection with the Flood disaster around the Indian Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e252	The proposition will be treated normally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e255	- We will work internationally to ensure that assistance to the victims of the river disaster comes as an additional resource and is not taken from other poor people. It is essential that Norway and other donor countries continue their recovery assistance even after the media focus on disaster areas decreases. In recent days, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has visited the most affected areas in Thailand and Indonesia. The indescribable destruction, especially in the northern Sumatra region, will require massive international effort for a long time. The Minister for Development will visit the area later. We want to focus on coordinated and effective action, and we want to help get the right help where it is needed. National and local authorities must lead, and we will cooperate with them, with UN organisations and with international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Cooperation with the Red Cross movement and voluntary organisations will continue. Norway will contribute to strengthening the United Nations' coordinating role. In the first phase of aid work, water and sanitation, food and primary health services will be the main fields of action. In the next phase, support will also be given to the reconstruction of infrastructure and basic public and civil structures. We will contribute to lasting solutions for displaced persons and those who have lost their livelihood and have their homes destroyed. Increased food safety and the restoration of local business are also important. Particular attention will be paid to measures to assist and protect women and children. The situation of indigenous peoples in the flooded areas will be surveyed for Norwegian support. We will give priority to countries that have been hit most, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, but there will also be a need to assist in other areas concerned, including: in Thailand. The defense has put two Hercules transport aircraft at the disposal of the relief work in Indonesia. The civil defense has crews in the UN service at Sumatra. Since both Sri Lanka and Indonesia are countries of cooperation for Norwegian aid, we will take a particularly active part in the coordination of these international efforts for these countries. It is intended that free services provided to non-governmental organisations in the context of disaster-related collection actions should not trigger VAT. So on the work further, evaluation and immediate action. I'm not going to conceal that the work related to the management of the river disaster has been very demanding. The disaster took place far from Norway, was enormous and occurred at a time when many Norwegians were in the area on vacation. The large number of people affected made the situation difficult. In practice, it will be difficult to plan in detail for the type of disaster we have experienced here. In my view, large parts of our emergency response system have worked well. In a short time, a large number of Norwegians have been helped home from a chaotic area far away, with great material destruction. There is a comprehensive and good apparatus at home to accommodate the Northmen who were affected by the disaster. But in dealing with such an extensive and complex disaster situation, there are things that could have been better done. We have gained experience that we need to learn from, and that will enable us to improve the management of crises in the future. In retrospect, we can see that we should have better preparedness and greater capacity to deal with the challenges of an increasing number of Nordics in the rest of the world for a shorter or longer time. Through contact and exchange of experience with other countries, we can learn from each other in dealing with such disasters. The Government will therefore initiate an independent evaluation of the work on the river disaster. We have close contact with the parties at Stortinget on the composition, mandate and deadline of the selection. Most naturally, the Government will present the work of the sample and assess its recommendations in a major communication. The government will assess whether the crisis management procedures for events abroad are good enough. The evaluation will provide important input into such work. When we have been exposed to such a disaster, it is also natural to look at the need for possible strengthening of coordination between departments. On 30 November last year, the European Council decided to ask the Government to investigate the issue of a central crisis management unit which, in the event of a crisis, will be responsible for coordination by departments and departments which must be operational in the emergency response. The question was also raised in comments by the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee in the autumn of 2002. The follow-up to the Storting Decision will be carried out in parallel with the evaluation of the river-wave disaster, and the Government intends to give its conclusions in the Single European Act on the basis of the evaluation. I would already like to say that a great deal is being said for the creation of a separate crisis management unit to assist the department responsible for coordinating the management of a crisis. I would like to stress that in this case this must not be done in such a way that it weakens the responsibility of the departments to deal with crises in their own area. On the contrary, a crisis management unit must help to strengthen line responsibilities and to increase the resources available to ministries in case of crisis, for example. in the form of premises, technical equipment and personnel. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was the department most affected by the river-wave disaster in the earliest phase, will also take some immediate action: Two permanent crisis teams will be established. At least one of these shall be able to be on the way to the crisis area in question at five hours' notice. Each team will have the communication equipment necessary to establish itself as an independent entity. Crisis teams shall support embassies in their efforts to provide the best possible assistance to the Nordics in the event of a crisis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs crisis centre will also be upgraded in order to increase its capacity and to be more effective in coping with a major foreign crisis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has decided to establish a consular presence in Phuket. In addition, it will be considered to establish a website where even in such critical situations information can be made available by relatives. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take an initiative vis-à-vis the departments and private bodies concerned - including the tourism industry, insurance companies, relief organisations, the seafarer's church, etc. - to discuss these measures immediately. These institutions were withdrawn, and we will also consider how they can be involved in the relief work in the event of future crises. In addition, we will consider the possibility of increased Nordic and international cooperation in order to deal with such crises. Finally, President. This tragedy has done something to all of us. We've seen how vulnerable we are, how huge the forces of nature can be. We've once again seen the value of being together, the value of community. This will also be reflected in the memory collections throughout the country for the weekend. Both professionals and volunteers have set up in an impressive way. Many contribute personally. This is a strength for our nation. On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank all those who have contributed in different ways and under difficult conditions and often under personal pressure in these dramatic days. I would also like to thank our Nordic neighbouring countries for all their help and for their good cooperation. H.M. King has sent a letter of thanks to the king of Thailand. The Minister of Foreign Affairs thanked Thailand's Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as Norwegian public servants and volunteers for their great efforts. On my trip to Thailand in a few days I will do the same. I am impressed by the commitment that has been triggered in the Norwegian people through collection actions, voluntary care work and the efforts of individuals. In the midst of the tragedy, this can give hope to a society characterized by more humanity and love for neighbor. Now the everyday life is waiting for those who have lost some of their loved ones. Then it's up to us all to show that we care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-10.ana.ud740e316	The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement be annexed to the minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
