ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anne Berit Andersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e37	I want to promote a proposal to evaluate the defence's accounting and salary system, the SAP systems. Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e44	That was an interesting information. The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e67	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erna Solberg State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen State Council Knut Arild Hareide The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e86	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of State. In Norway, we are now filling the country with thousands of illegal immigrants, immigrants in the sense that they are asylum seekers who have finally been denied their applications. For example, we have a number of Somalis who are seeking asylum, which to a large extent – almost 100 pst. – no, but we can't get back to Somalia. To a large extent, these Somalis are now being sent out on the streets, and to the extent that there may be criminals among them, they will, regardless of diet and diet, be a cost to society by engaging in criminal activity. My question to the Council of State is: what does the Government do now to ensure that these Somalis are transported back to Somalia?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e95	First, I will be allowed to correct. It's not like 100 pst. of the Somalis applying for asylum in Norway, shall be refused. If we take away the Dublins, which is part of this area, we see that one in about half of the cases actually gets to stay. We are making a thorough assessment of the different areas in Somalia, because there are some areas in Somalia that are still so troubled that it provides a basis for protection, and our asylum policy is based on an individual assessment of the need for protection. One of the most important and difficult problems in asylum policy as a whole is the fact that there are some countries where there is either no government that makes it possible to have a return agreement or is not a government that will accept its citizens. We have five–six countries where we have problems structurally with the country’s government or lack of government in terms of returns. Then we have many problems on the return side by being unclear about their identity, and some countries will not accept citizens who are not 100 pst. ensure the identity of. We are constantly working with the countries to which we have problems with return, to get back to these countries where possible. Somalia is a special country because there is no central government there, and there are no countries in Europe today that perform to return people compulsively to Somalia. The United Kingdom has been able to send people back through special agencies for a period of time. Neither do they anymore, because local clan leaders, warlords, have threatened that activity out of the country. We work with other countries on information and overview of what we can do, but Somalia is today a problem for which it is difficult to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e104	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware of the problem with Somalia, that there is no stable government in Somalia. But after all, it's all the economy that counts. Obviously, many of the Somalis go home voluntarily, but it's a forced retreat that's impossible. The Council of State then points out that some clan leaders, or warlords, as some people also call them, are a hindrance to it. Has there been an attempt to persuade these clandestine leaders in relation to the economy? In some contexts, it is probably possible, because when these clandestine leaders refuse to accept people who have been sent back by coercion, it is because of economics. Is it considered, or can it be considered, to enter into negotiations with, for example, the head of the Hawiye clan, which is the largest clan in southern Somalia, or for example. the head of Somaliland, to assist, where appropriate, through economics, with projects or other measures to ensure that these clandestine or governing powers withdraw their own nationals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e109	When the representative Sandberg says that in some contexts this is possible, I would like to point out that there are no countries in the situation with Somalia that they have been able to find this possible at the moment. There is also a problem to what extent we should be forced to negotiate with money in order to return people who have the right to live in their own countries, and to what extent we are then opening up a major debate about simply extortion. We can get into a situation, if we were to go into that kind of arrangement, that more trips to give clan leaders more money in their pockets. On the other hand, it might be interesting to look at the question, because there are points of light in Somalia. There have been attempts to build the clans, and there have been some attempts to work out a peace process in Somalia. So in the future, we'll find ways to support civil projects that make it easier to get back, I think we'll be open to discuss and watch. But at the same time, I think some of the important things we do in relation to Somalia are a coherent joint work. It is therefore the case that the return problem is on the agenda of all the international bodies in which we work together on refugee policy, and in the EU, and that is also where the countries receiving asylum seekers from Somalia will be able to have common positions and try to get through a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e116	There will be three additional questions – first Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e119	I understand to the Council of State that she believes that the Government is now working well and is going to work well on this problem of sending asylum seekers with clearly groundless applications, such as. many Somali asylum seekers currently represent Norwegian authorities. The real problem, however, is that too many asylum seekers have come to Norway under the false flag of asylum seekers, while they are actually economic refugees and welfare refugees. As both I and the Progress Party see it, the Government has not done much enough to prevent new asylum seekers from coming and still coming from a number of countries, such as the United States. from Somalia, to Norway. That's the problem. We are familiar with the problem that Somali asylum seekers have been facing for a while now. But what has the Government actually done specifically to prevent, prevent and stop, or to reduce this significant problem of having so many just Somali asylum seekers come to Norway? Is the Council of State satisfied with the Government's efforts in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e128	I'm not satisfied with the results as long as we still have six to seven countries that don't cooperate to take back their citizens, and where it's hard to get them to do so. But in some areas, we have a movement. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen was in Ethiopia in November. Ethiopia represents the largest number of refusals that are not received today. He was in Ethiopia in November. After that, we now have a process going with the Ethiopian authorities to see if we can get to a return agreement. We hope that we can solve one of the problems, as a follow-up to his journey, in the further follow-up to the contact between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ethiopian authorities. So there are some problems in this world that can be inextricable to Norway on one track and where there is a need for joint international cooperation. Countries with complete chaos or countries where there is no central government, and where there is a forced return, because so much investment is made in them because they provide foreign exchange income and funding for the family, can sometimes make it insoluble. I believe that none of the proposals made by the Progress Party on simple solutions will answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e136	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e139	It is important that those who are refused not to be here in the country are returned. That's why it becomes completely incomprehensible, what we knew last week, that an asylum seeker has been transported out and returned quite five times. He has received a new application and a new stay in reception with the rights it entails. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that this should be possible at all, especially now that we have received the 24-hour rule, and that an application can be dealt with within 24 hours? What's going on in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e146	We have become significantly more effective, but we still have a 48-hour rule and not a 24-hour rule for handling matters. I'm happy for the trust. What the representative here refers to is, of course, unsustainable, but there are some dilemmas. This Afghan, who has been sent to Germany, has returned to Norway seven times, not five times. He's come with different identities every single time. This means that an identity check must be made, among other things. This is due to the fact that there will be some people staying in Norway by Afghans. They are not within the 48-hour rule, because it is not as simple as saying that everyone from Afghanistan should not have a basis for asylum. It takes time to figure out the type of identity that the person has, and so it has to be checked using the fingerprints. Once this has been done, decisions should be taken quickly. But one of the problems we now need to have a dialogue about is how the German authorities, who are really responsible for Schengen cooperation, deal with the person concerned, because it is unreasonable that he should be able to go back to Norway all the time and have new applications here. With regard to the other side of that case, I have to say that we are still working to find out if there have been any errors in the form that in some way there has not been a safety risk in the DUF and therefore received a quick handling of the case on a different basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e155	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions. Then there will be an additional question in addition to the three advertised. From the President's seat we managed inexplicably to avoid registering that the representative Holmås signed up. He will also raise an additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e160	Return on rejection as soon as possible advice where it is possible. It's a policy supported by the Center Party. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to put the search light on those refugees who have been rejected and who cannot be returned, as the Council of State has just informed us. How long should the Government be assuming the responsibility of the State open to this group? As it is now, they have been sent on the street from 1 January last year, left to chance, to the municipalities, for relief. Actually, the government's countermeasures have opened them for emergency help. This may include permanent reception. Here you may want to ask the municipalities to take responsibility, but also to set up with the necessary resources. The current situation is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e165	There's a very big difference between people who aren't really returnable, and people who refuse to return. The main group that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa now refers to is opposed to returning, because they will be able to return voluntarily. If you can prove that you have cooperated on identity and papers, you will actually be able to stay permanently in Norway after today’s foreign law, because it is not self-inflicted that you do not return. So this main group is people who oppose going back to their home country. In view of what was the main question, that we have quite a number of countries that do not accept their inhabitants, the truth is that if we are going to make other arrangements for this group, we're just going to invite more from the same countries to come here. Then we're going to de facto introduce something that is almost free immigration from countries like Somalia, Ethiopia and other countries with which we have major return problems, because we know that that will eventually become the normal situation. That's why the government feels that we have to put some pressure on people to return voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e172	Then there is definitely the last follow-up question – Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e175	The main emphasis of the pressure we have to put in to ensure that the refugees who have been finally rejected are to return to countries that will not accept their own citizens, must be to contribute to a more democratic and peaceful development in those countries, for example. Somalia and other countries both in Africa and in other parts of the world. I would like to stress that our practice in Norway today in relation to refugees is more stringent in relation to both Somalia, Chechnya and Iraq than the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is in favour of its recommendations to the different countries. As far as Somalia is concerned, I would also like to ask the Council of State to guarantee that the Norwegian people's money does not go into the pockets of former war criminals, war leaders and clan leaders to finance their business. I would like to ask the Council of State to give a guarantee that she does not share the boundless naivety of the Advance Party and will make human trafficking a big business for clan leaders in Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e184	I agree that it is a very important part of our international aid work that also has a migration aspect, and that is the work done within our assistance to focus on democracy, on the prerequisites for economic development and democracy in many countries. It is, in fact, quite important also in order to achieve a better balance in migration development. When it comes to the question of paying clan leaders to receive their own citizens, the government will not. The only thing that could be interesting over time, provided that there are more stable conditions, and provided that it can be part of our aid strategy, is to see if we can make it easier for people to return because they have something to return to, that is, that there is some kind of economic development going on in a larger democratic perspective. We're not interested in paying ourselves out of the question of how we can get to return refugees, because we don't think it helps. There are some countries that try it; there are some countries that have joined their aid policy very closely against the return of refugees, but so far it does not seem as if they have come any further in Somalia than the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e193	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e196	I have a question for the Minister of Health and Care. Through an article series in the Evening Post on private, commercial hospitals, we have once again been shown that there is a significant number of doctors who are employed in public hospitals and who have bijobbers in private hospitals. This can be quite fine if the bijobben is performed in agreement with the main employer, i.e. the public hospital. However, it is often the case that the bibliography is carried out by an undertaking in competition with the activities of the main employer. Of course, this would not be accepted in most establishments and businesses, but health services seem to be accepting this unculture. What does the Minister of Health think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e208	Firstly, I agree with the underlying of the representative Hanssen, namely that this is a mixture of things that can be ok, and some things that definitely are not ok. It is quite obvious that in the health care system over the years, not to say decades, we have had a situation in this area that I consider to be totally unsustainable. There has been a situation in which some doctors have been in their public position sorting out patients, some for treatment in the hospital in question and some for treatment in a private enterprise, either an enterprise in which they have been employed, or an enterprise of their own, in which they have actually only been employed. In the mid-1990s, some specialists received an operating grant of 20 pst. from public access and an unlimited right to privacy. This should not continue in any way to the extent that it has been. It has also been taken into account, by pointing out precisely the employer’s role in relation to this in the management document of health enterprises. And it is quite definitely that it must be in agreement with the employer if you are to be able to carry out activities that are in direct competition with the activities in which you are primarily employed. This does not only have a competitive perspective. It is also the case in health professionals’ legislation that if, through their actions in the position in which they are in the public sector, they act in such a way as to increase the costs of the public sector, this is an independent argument that it is also illegal, not just unfortunate. I have taken this up throughout the autumn in the rounds I have had with the regional health companies, and during the spring I will get an exact overview of what the scope is. I consider that the scope of this goes far beyond what I believe is reasonable and reasonable, and therefore action is also taken. Let me also say that the RHFs in recent times have received increased attention to this. They have taken it up with some people and come to clarifications where doctors have been given a choice: either you get a job in the health company, or you get to continue your private assignment. You have to pick one of the places.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e223	I thank you for a very positive response, and I am pleased that the Council of State agrees with me that it must be cleared up in what I would call a 'unculture'. It is important to understand that individual hospitals, individual health firms, may feel powerless about cleaning up, because individual hospitals will very often fear that they will be able to have recruitment problems by establishing a practice of control and access to beekeeping that is more stringent than others. Therefore, some national systems need to be put in place. The big advantage of the health reform is that Hospital-Norway has one boss. It must be possible to establish national practices. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Minister of Health and Welfare now ensure that we establish a national practice in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e232	Let me say that now the enthusiasm for having one manager varies, not least within regional health companies, because at the moment you start with national governance, it also triggers some counterpowers. I experience what the representative Hanssen says, almost as a pat on the shoulder in relation to taking national action, because it was the very main idea behind the whole reform, that on some general things, national standards should be adopted, national approach, also from the ownership position, and – I kept saying – it should be lacking. The person who has come has now seen that it has been done in connection with the business meetings I have had. This area is an area that, at my discretion, is suitable for a national activity and an equal attitude of the owner as to how we want it in our hospital. I do not want previously established uncultures to be almost codified and blessed. That's not the point. That's why we're now getting an overall overview of this, and we're going to be relevant to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e241	There will be four follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e244	I think I'll put some of the main question into practice a little bit more. So we hear very specific stories that from public hospitals patients are referred to private clinics where the patient meets the same doctor in the private clinic who has referred him from the hospital to the private clinic. It may not be possible for public staff doctors to refer patients to private clinics for which the doctors themselves either work in or have a relationship of ownership. I believe that such things raise very heavy questions about the actual referral practice: Is the purpose of the referral the patient's best, on a professional basis, or is it the doctor's own economic interest that is the basis of the referral to itself? How does the Minister of Health approach regional health businesses in order to put an end to this, which obviously must be illegal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e253	Let me immediately say that I believe the last words that the representative said, that this «must be illegal» is quite important. You have to be careful to define something as ‘illegal’, even if you think it’s unfortunate. Most of these activities are of the highest legal nature, and in their time they were implemented by the county councils as hospital owners, together with the state. At the time, operating grants were granted to doctors employed by specialist health services. For example, you got a 20 pst. an operational agreement, but an unrestricted access to draw on public security. It wasn't like the hospital owners at the time thought that this was supposed to be used for nothing but to sit and watch, it was of course to treat patients. But what is quite obvious is that the development that has been taking place in this area suggests – because of both the scale and some of the singles that appear to be completely comical – that this cannot continue to be the case. That's why you have to deal with it. But one of the main issues is the fact that the doctors are part of the specialist health service in the respective county that, after all, treats patients, and with the recruitment problem you have with regard to doctors, with the narrow gate we've had to get into education, it's clear that there are some acute issues related to it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e260	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e263	I would like to address another issue in the violent growth in the use of private hospitals, and that concerns the political priorities. Both the current and the previous Minister of Health have repeatedly assured the Stortinget that psychiatry should have top priority in the healthcare system. The massive increase we are now seeing in the use of private hospitals means that an increasing proportion of the health billions go to simpler and more routine interventions and treatment. In this way, there will be fewer resources left for the psychiatry. We get almost daily reports of how dramatic the condition is for too many both children and adults with severe mental disorders who are not being treated. What concrete measures will the Minister of Health take to prevent serious mental illness children, young people and adults from going for months and years and waiting for treatment because the money goes to more economically profitable treatment and benefits to owners of private hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e272	The President will note that there is a significant gap between the main question and the content of this supplementary question. However, the President has nothing against the Council of State answering that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e275	I have nothing against answering that either, because it gives me the opportunity to correct a few errors in the premises, where there is talk of a significant number of health billions going to private hospitals. As far as I remember in the hurry, it's about approx. 1.5 pst. Of the 65 billion that we have for hospital treatment, go to private hospitals. Even that's a significant amount. It is based on agreements made with the regional health establishments. There have not been any signs from my side in the management document or in the order documents that have been sent out that you want more or less of private items in the healthcare system. My main focus is to operate the public health system optimally in relation to the resources provided by the Stortinget. Just a little bit of information: in addition to the psychiatry escalation plan, which we have definitely put on track, last week I have instructed all five regional health companies to have a higher rate of growth in both drug treatment and psychiatry than in somatic care. To this day I cannot see that someone has suggested it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e284	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e288	I am not going to assume what this costs, but in the growth that has taken place in the use of private hospitals and hospital services. There has been a quadrupling of approx. two years. With regard to the signal that this should only continue, I think that the Minister of Health should read the comments of his own government parties in the state budget setting, which clearly signals that more private institutions and health services should be used. What's part of this problem here is that part of the structure we have for good public health is about to crumble. The employees apply to the private sector. There you can – at least – compete for wages and salaries, and this also becomes a pay-paying affair, in which the private attracts some of the best doctors. There are several aspects of this that make me ask the Minister for Health: Will he go to the law and look at employment and ownership in private activities, and, if necessary, referral arrangements, to get to grips with this? There have been practically empty words until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e295	This was probably more a follow-up question to the follow-up question than to the main question, but if the council will still answer, then be so good!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e298	I'm answering as far as my abilities go! It's about keeping proportions in order before making too many headlines about what this really is about. I find it very difficult to see that the 100,000 employees we have in public health, who are described as perhaps one of the best in the world, would feel threatened by this 1.5pst.-production going on in private hospitals. There is nothing in that management document, the ordering document, that I made the first week in January, which says anything in the direction of increasing or reducing the scope in this area. The best possible way to adjust the size of new private hospitals is through approval of new hospitals. I have made use of that section of the law that allows the Minister of Health to impose restrictions on the approval of new hospitals, precisely based on the personnel situation that could arise from the fact that it would silence the public for key posts. It has been used, and will be used again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e307	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e310	It is a complete fallacy of the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to claim that we have one head of the Norwegian health system: we have five different bosses, who operate in five different ways, in the regional health companies – but we can get one, if we change the style. In the case of publicly appointed private practice specialists, this has led to a significant reduction in waiting lists. 200,000 people. If we hadn't had that arrangement, probably the waiting lists would have been 50,000 more – at least. I expect and believe that in most cases the work is done in the private outpatient clinic, which often operates, in consultation with the employer. I think there are few exceptions where this does not happen. There is no need to worry about any competition between the private and the public as long as we have 200,000 people on the waiting list. Does the Minister of Health not agree with me that it must be better for these specialists to continue to operate a wide range of practices in order to further reduce waiting lists under proper conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e321	First, I must give the representative Alvheim quite rightly that the private enterprise has been an important premise for the strong reduction of the long waiting lists, which was as long as a bad year. It is clear that both hospitals and private business specialists have been a very important factor in bringing down waiting lists. That is also said in all five regional health companies, and it is those who have entered into agreements with the private sector. No one can take up business in this area without having an agreement with the public. There is no doubt about this. But then it's very important, as the representative Alvheim himself says, that you have what he calls proper and proper relationships. It is quite obvious that in most cases there is a regulated relationship between the employee concerned and the employer. What's my point is that that level of consciousness needs to be increased further. We can't have a situation where we're talking about, for example. how many hours you can work in public to ensure that it is healthy, and then you go out and work 50 hours until that week. There has to be an understanding between both parties. It's not illegal, but sometimes it's unfortunate, and it's necessary that we clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e328	With regard to the number of managers in the healthcare system, the President will assume that it applies at the top of the system as downwards, that there is a difference between being a doctor and being superior. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e333	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. In Norway, 31 fjords are so contaminated with pollutants that authorities have had to impose dietary restrictions. That means people can't eat shellfish or fish from the very polluted feathers. The causes of this are old environmental sins. It leaks pollutants from the polluted seabed. With today's pace in the work of the authorities in cleaning up, it will take 600 years for Norwegian fjords to become clean! Is the Minister for the Environment satisfied with the pace and effort of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e340	The representative, Sørensen, addresses a problem for which there is reason to be concerned. We have major challenges in Norwegian fjords today. We have pre-eminent sediments lying at the bottom of some of our fjords, and we're forced to make a force to clean it up. The government, with its 2005 budget proposal, has also chosen to increase the number of allowables. We're increasing the number of rights by $14 million. In 2005, there is also a promise that we will need to increase in order to clean up our fjords. The leading sediments lie there. What we have to do is to mud, take this up and store the impure sediments in a safe and good way, and then have a clean mass over the impure sediment, so that it becomes safe and safe and does not create insecurity, as it does today with a significant pollution, which helps to shape the local environment, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e347	When the Supervisory and Constituent Committee examined the report of the National Audit Office on the work of the authorities in cleaning up the contaminated seabed, an overall committee wrote that it was very important that today’s disposal of special waste did not lead to a corresponding pollution problem. The drama fjord has been a problem for many years. Authorities have spent a lot of money cleaning and cleaning, and private individuals have also spent money. How, then, can the Minister for the Environment allow 70 000 tonnes of contaminated mass to be dumped in the Gulf of Drama? And further, can the Minister for the Environment explain what pollutants this mass contains, and can he guarantee that in the future we will not have new dietary restrictions on Drammensfjord, as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e354	Yes, that's exactly the problem that the representative Heidi Sørensen addresses in his first question, which means that we are forced to find a solution when it comes to the challenge we have, associated with impure masses in the Gulf of Drama, in the way that SFT has now decided. What is important is that I can guarantee that the current storage in the Gulf of Drama will have no impact on the environment in the fjord or on the Gulf of Drama as a recreational area. I understand the concern and local commitment that has been attached to the decision that SFT has presented. I have that understanding because of the review that has been in the media, where one has assumed that it is almost poison that is to be spent in the fjord. So that's not right. This will happen in a safe and defensive way, and there will be no negative consequences for the Gulf of Drama or for the Drammensfjord in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e360	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e363	The only ones that appear to be reassured by SFT’s assessments in this case are the SFT itself, the industrial interests involved and the State Council. The County of Buskerud has pointed out that there is insufficient sampling of the masses. The spread of particles is feared while dumping is taking place. Dispersion will then also occur to soil animals via dumping, and hence the accumulation of toxins in the food chain. The social assessments further made by the county are that this will affect outdoor interests. We are concerned about the quality of bathing water and fish. As the representative Sørensen pointed out, large investments have been made to clean the fjord, with the consequence of reaching well-being both bathing, fish and shellfish. That's how people around the Drammensfjord want to have it in the future too. Does the Hareide State Council agree that the masses from Fredrikstad, to be dumped in Drammensfjorden, are heavily contaminated? And what pollutants, which we believe are not mapped, does the Hareide Council consider to be present? [[The President clubs.]] And further, are not the state's assessments based on reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e374	The President must remember the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e377	What is quite clear is that it has already been decided that the Gulf of Drama should be deposited in the impure sediment of the Svelvikfjord. 140 000 m3 with impurising masses. In its decision, the SFT also added 70,000 m3 of impure sediment from Fredrikstad. But before that decision was made, it was clear that impure sediment would be deposited safely and in a good way. Now there's something more impure about sediment, but there's nothing to say about the quality of the fjord. There's nothing to say about this area as a recreation area and as a good open-air area. So it's based on the storage that's already happening there today, that one of them is adding the impure sediment from Fredrikstad to this area. But it happens in a safe and good way, and it's not to the detriment of the environment in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e388	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e391	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Does the Council of State really think that it is the size of the municipalities that are today deciding whether or not to have a good service offer? I am asking because in the last week the Council of State issued a press release entitled: «Less municipalities provide better services» I would like to remind you that it is contrary to investigations that the inhabitants of smaller municipalities believe that they have the best supply, and that there is an entirely different proximity between the population and the inhabitants, and thus greater possibility of influencing the service provision. Governments say in the same message that small municipalities have problems recruiting professionals. Can she prove it? Is it not primarily the local economy that today municipalities cannot assign the necessary professional staff, and that more and more people also point to inter-municipal cooperation in order to solve that particular problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e405	Small municipalities in Norway have a better service coverage mainly because they have a better economy, because this increase has decided to overcompensate for the expenditure of small municipalities. In some areas it will give the impression that small municipalities have better services, but then it is the quality of a type of service that is gradually very vulnerable in small municipalities. I would like to remind you that one third of the municipalities in Norway have fewer than 3000 inhabitants. We have had major reforms with regard to the weakest groups, where these should be moved back to their immediate environment. An important part of the psychiatry that the Minister of Health has talked about in the past is to build up a good offer with good professionals for people with mental health problems in their community. We've done the same thing within the HVPU. We are demanding that, for example: The child protection services shall operate well, both legally and professionally, in order to ensure that all are granted their rights. Unfortunately, there is a tendency that it is difficult for small municipalities to provide this type of service to the weakest, because this requires a well-educated competence. So it requires that you can't just have people with a wide range of skills working on this. It does not necessarily mean that the quality of school and care for the elderly is primarily affected by this, which is what people often think about in terms of municipal services, but it is the group ‘the weakest’. We get more and more signs indicating this. What I sometimes think is a bit surprising in these debates on municipal structure is that it is not understood that the major reforms of shifting responsibility for the weakest to the municipalities and working with the prevention work in the municipalities will also have a bearing on how the municipal structure should be. We give the municipalities greater responsibility for just heavy and difficult tasks, and it requires a different structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e412	I have to ask the Council of State who she thinks is best qualified to assess what is a good offer. Is it the inhabitants of the municipalities who give advice to their local populace? Or are these bigotry representatives and state councils? It's a fact that the 100 smallest municipalities use 5 pst. of the frame transfers. It is also a fact that many of them find a solution when it comes to responsibility for special skills, through inter-municipal cooperation. On the one hand, state councils will leave more responsibility to local peoples, but they are not interested in solving these problems through inter-municipal cooperation. She'll force the municipalities to merge. She's not interested in what the inhabitants would think about it. I see the Right's program committee follows up the state council's earlier statement: here it has to force.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e419	What was the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e422	I'll try to answer. So I am not uninterested in any of the relationships that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa addresses. It's e.g. so that at a conference where Magnhild Melting Society Kleppa was present last week, I informed that we were among others. provide a new regulatory framework for all inter-municipal cooperation. We would not have spent time and energy on it if we were not interested in establishing opportunities for intermunicipal cooperation. That is why we are also supporting pilot projects in the context of inter-municipal cooperation by the State. Therefore, a database of good projects for inter-municipal cooperation was also created long before the Senterpartiet actually proposed it. I want to say that we should think through how many of us really are, the inhabitants of a municipality, who know so much about how the offer of the weakest people is actually. How many of us would have known how child protection works in our own municipality if we hadn't been politicians? How many had known how psychiatry works for the weakest? How many people had met relatives, who are just pointing out what the situation is? How many have read the supervisory reports that state supervisory authorities have for some of these services and that actually reveal that there is a problem here? If you have 1,000 inhabitants in a municipality, it's quite natural that it's hard to have the width of all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e431	For the sake of order only: the Council of State perceives the question: who does it think is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e437	It speaks for the benefit of the Council of State – unconditionally! There will be four follow-up questions – first Odd Roger Enoxsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e442	One of the objections to small municipalities has just been that there are transparent societies where people know each other very well, and that this can be a problem in child protection matters. This suggests that people in small municipalities may have a better understanding of the situation. So there's strong local resistance to community associations. Right makes the freedom of choice one of its main issues in the upcoming election campaign. My question to the Council of State is, is it that freedom of choice should only apply where people's elections are consistent with the right-wing choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e449	Now it is the Council of State that is present. The government has a voluntary nature as a fundamental principle. We have a big discussion about this. I miss the willingness of other parties to enter into a discussion in connection with the welfare offers and the quality we can get at them, in connection with local democracy, that is, our ability to leave the important tasks in the municipalities in the future, and municipal size. I think there are questions that actually go beyond the individual municipality. This can be done, for example. in addition to larger municipalities that small municipalities operate lobbying in Stortinget to get tasks that they are too small to get, while larger municipalities see that it would have given their inhabitants a better chain. Take, for example: the care reform, where the Government proposed to transfer the care part to the municipalities. The main emphasis of the problems lies in the big cities, where the chain and the context had been important. We also have decisions in Stortinget, among others. by activity of small municipalities, which means that they are likely to receive a worse offer, because the municipal structure is not such that they can undertake a task.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e454	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e457	Governments need money to meet their huge tax commitments. Therefore, of course, she has to press to get the expenses down. But some of what the Council of State says in its first answer is interesting. She says that you get better services when the municipalities have a little better advice. It has some of the small municipalities, because that's not what the council says, that it's where it's the worst. On the contrary, there are some of the big cities. So the Council of State appeals to us to be concerned about the quality of the offer of the weakest. That appeal has SV wanted to send back to the government council: be concerned with the weakest! Could not the Council of State have given priority to well-being, psychiatry, care and provision to the most vulnerable before tax relief, and see that there is a link between how much money we are willing to give to the municipal sector and the services that the municipal sector can provide to its citizens? There's a relationship between the money they get and the quality they're able to give. Obviously, the Council of State has made a completely different choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e464	So the question of releasing money from the local government sector in connection with municipal mergers is a question that has already been raised. Every time that question has been raised, I have said that if money is released through redistribution in the income system, the money will be in the municipal sector. Otherwise, we've created systems that go 15 years before funds are released from the local government sector. You are left with more money in the municipalities of municipal associations. Therefore, the whole claim of tax relief falls on its own unfairness in relation to this issue. So this government has prioritised the weakest groups. We have prioritised these through a child protection reform, implemented with more money and a better follow-up to child protection, through a quality reform that addresses all areas where there have been weaknesses and also reveals that there are weaknesses in the municipal sector. We spend over NOK 1 billion more on heavy users than we did when this government joined, i.e. on those who need more help and cost a lot of money. We have continued and expanded an escalation within the psychiatry. So the Minister of Health has come closer to psychiatry in the course of the year. So that's how we focus on the weak groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e471	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e474	There are many arguments that a reduction in the number of municipalities in Norway may be desirable. the need for a wider and more robust professional environment, changes in the division of tasks between management levels and potential efficiencies. However, there are also several factors that weaken the efficiency argument: savings are uncertain, any cost savings are achieved only after a long and heavy transition period, different tax bases between municipalities, which may mean poorer income bases per year. built-in for the richest municipalities in a community setup, and several other arguments. Is it now the policy of the Council of State that there is a natural conclusion that there is a need for greater measures to lubricate the process if one is to become a volunteer? Or is it at all a volunteer of the Government? And does the Council of State have a comment to the spokesman in Bærum, who recently said that this is not good for local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e479	First, it's the government's volunteering as the basis for this, and we're going through a big process related to it. At the same time, we have announced that we will have to come back to next year with a review of the final phase of the process, i.e. how far the discussion that goes in all the municipalities of the country about the future municipal structure has come, and among other things. discuss the contexts related to what happens if we don't get structural changes – if we get a better professional environment, are there areas of the professional community that become so vulnerable that we have to find other ways to solve this? Here it is, among other things. talk about solving the generalist community question, that is, all municipalities are going to operate immediately, and some other issues are coming. In addition, it is important to look at the economic incentives in this context. One of the incentives that have been improved in recent years is that municipalities now with the same economy for the first 10 years are left with both the basic and regional subsidies. This means that in practice most municipalities have more to walk with. In addition, there is a drop-down over 15 years. But this is a discussion that Stortinget gets to take next year. We're not making any changes at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e488	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e491	When one listens to SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, one should believe that the municipal sector was starving. The truth is a completely different one. In the last three to four years, the local government sector has received transfers equivalent to DKK 10 to 12 billion. Another factor that I also think it is important to include is that public sector employment has increased by 72 pst. between 1980 and 2001 and it is still increasing. So in terms of the actual conditions in what the Council of State says about growth and the kind of things in the public sector, I agree. I also share the concerns of the Council of State in relation to the reforms adopted here in the house, which are trodden down the heads of individual municipalities, and that the structure has not changed in line with that. It is clear that small municipalities do not have the prerequisites to tackle these major challenges. But my question to the Council of State is: This government has spent tens of millions trying to get local authorities to help municipalities in relation to infrastructure measures to speed up local community associations. Has this been a success?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e501	It has been a success in some places and elsewhere not such a great success. I think the expectations of more carrots tend to increase. You expect to get a little bit more than the previous ones. Then there's a game situation that actually seems negative for what would have been positive. There is no doubt that this has been positive in relation to the municipal merger that is now taking place in Aure/Tustna. It has been positive in relation to discussions elsewhere. But the expectations that the big community, for example, must solve all the transport problems through the community projects, we cannot meet them. Let me say one thing: when I'm concerned about quality, it's simply because the weakest are dependent on a eaten offer. We have reports that show that although the proximity, for example, In the case of child protection, knowing more about the problems is, unfortunately, often so that proximity also leads to closed eyes for problems that may exist. That means you don't believe, because you know. It's hard to sit close and make recommendations. There are some good intercommunal cooperation projects that solve some of the proximity issues. But it is not possible to have a child-restraint with e.g. only half the position of individual municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e508	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e511	The question goes to the Minister of Health. For many years we have had five health regions in Norway, and with the health reform, we got five regional health companies with clear commitments to provide people with good treatment in a timely manner. In the budget presented by Gabrielsen a few months ago, regional health care companies received praise from him for effective patient treatment, for a short cut in waiting times and for speeding up health research. Now I see that the Right will remove the five regional health businesses. People are already responding today to the fact that the distance to those who rule is too great. The right answer is to increase the distance by centralizing and pooling all power in a major health department. Is it government policy that health regions should be removed and power centralised in an enormous bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e520	The government's policy is not based on a draft of a batch programme for one of the three batches. Now it's probably with me as with the questioner that there are essential parts of a software that you agree with initially. Which points I agree with and disagree with, I will come back to eventually. What I see is that there are some challenges to the governance model as it is. I perceive that my mandate as Minister of Health is to make it as good as possible within the model we have. All the proposals for changes I made to Stortinget, and all the measures I have taken in this year's business meetings and ordering documents, build up under making the system we have, robust. Then you can have a debate further on the alternatives that exist. At my discretion, there is something about the model that appears to be a bit contradictory internally, but in which you just have to clear up. One is that health business legislation has given individual regional health establishments a significant degree of autonomy, freedom, within certain limits. On the other hand, the Council of State has the opportunity to intervene in almost every case, if he wishes. Obviously, there's a bit of a difficult situation. It often carries the question hours in the Stortinget marked by, and today's questioning in the Questionnaire that comes soon is no exception in that way. That means there are some challenges here. However, I believe that what is important in relation to this whole reform is to take national action and address where necessary. It is the way in any organization that something must necessarily come from below, but then there is also something that has to come from above. I think there are several issues in which it is natural to take national action to coordinate, among others. as simple things as ICT, to take the example, which, as far as I remember, in this room was one of the glossy numbers of the then Health Minister, Thin, and something I very much agreed with. I believe the model has some weaknesses. They are no larger than that they can be corrected along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e529	The Council of State is a pragmatic man, and I will advise him that this play from the Right Programme Committee should be stopped on the drawing board. I am concerned about the centralisation that lies in this, and it is further reinforced that a central body is proposed to order all treatment for all patients in Norway. For one thing, this signals an extremely centralised mega-class bureaucracy, but equally wrong is the uncertainty that this creates for the future of the local hospitals. I am very much afraid that this central body does not turn primarily to the smaller local hospitals, and perhaps departments in some major hospitals, but this seems to be the right invitation to increase the number of private actors and increase the opportunities of private operators in the healthcare sector. Is not the Minister of Health concerned about the degree of centralisation to which one here can see an indication?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e534	The President will doubt that the programming of political parties is subject to the authority of the expert councils, but the expert councils will have to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e537	Of course, that's absolutely right. I have been sent the program and I intend to make some recordings in this way too, but I think it is quite important to keep calm even in the use of words. It's quite right, as the representative says, I'm a relatively pragmatic person, and for me, the way to organise a business might not contain too much party policy, as I see it. When it comes to extreme bureaucracy – you see, like some monster somewhere – I would say that I see no reason why bureaucracy, if you chose that model, would be slightly larger than what we have with the number of regional health businesses today. I think it's important to focus on what this is all about: how are we going to provide the best possible health care for the billions that the Storting has at any time? There are two main models, as I see it, per. today to do so. That's the model we have, and it's a more central body, or something in between. I feel that there is a need for some more national governments in some areas. It would be very unfortunate if the five regional health establishments were to develop and be confused with five county municipalities. I definitely don't want that to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e542	With a little liberality in view of the regulation's restriction of the oral question procedure, the President will give access to two follow-up questions, even if we are a little overtime – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e545	I will not in any way ask the Minister of Health and Care to carry out programme work in the Right, but I think it is quite important to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about the organisation of the Norwegian hospital sector. We then record that the Minister of Health and Health Party believes that regional health businesses should be removed, and we also see from the Evening Post that the Health Policy Spokesman in Stortinget says the following: «Regional health establishments are an unnecessary link between the Ministry of Health and Health and the tasks of hospitals». My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State agrees. Do we now have an organisation of hospitals that has an unnecessary link, i.e. the regional health companies, or do we not?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e555	Let me first say with all due respect that the Storting cannot at least demand my personal view of the software that is available from the Right Programme Committee. My view will be clarified in detail at the Right National Meeting, what I had to think about the very central points, which I am also responsible for in the government. With regard to the reform we have, as far as I remember, it was unanimous in the Storting that we should have a major evaluation of that reform. For me, the way we organise the allocation of the $65 billion is primarily a question of what ensures the best possible health care out there, and then I'm not very concerned about what you call the different terms in such a process. The way I see it per second. Today, I feel relatively comfortable with large parts of the reform as it is, but I say that I have seen some pages that I think there is reason to look at, and I am going to continually propose changes to make it as good as possible within the system we have. As I said, the evaluation will be very important. I think it will guide more parties in terms of what one at the end is going to think about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e560	One of the main intentions of the hospital reform was to get a more equivalent specialist health service across the country, and to solve the organisation with five regional health companies, which have in practice shown that there have never been more different offers in our country than just during this organisation. Here I fully agree with both the Right and the Minister of Health that something needs to be done, and what is important to be done is to make sure that you distinguish between the order service and the delivery service. That's where it's failed completely. I can also add that any of us who visit a public hospital today will be confirmed by the professionals that there has never been so much bureaucracy and paper mill in the hospitals as just today, and that was not the intention. So I would, as strongly as I can, recommend the Minister of Health to go into this problem and find a solution that is better than the one we have today. I hope the Minister of Health can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e566	If the Minister of Health wants to respond to the recommendation, he would have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e569	As far as the abilities go, as I say. I very much agree with Alvheim – and I see that as Storting's overall view, and I know that was very clearly expressed by the Minister of Health at the time, Tøn, in the context of the whole reform – that it is something that is obviously suitable for national action. I believe that we have not taken all of the national grips that we can within that model, as it appears per. today. It's more natural to do – I was saying – the acute things also within an organization after the difficult curve we did three years ago. The time has come, at my discretion, to grasp some of the national grips. We can do that in two ways. We can do it through the model we have, and we can do it through an alternative model. And when we see how we've organized the public sector, it's not that institutions have only one governing point in the kingdom, often in Oslo, necessarily result in equality in the offer across the country. There are completely other things that do it. When it comes to the distinction between the order role and the delivery role, it may be one of the most important points. I have now instructed health care companies that they should report to me within another tertiary that they have established it. I've reorganized the ministry from New Year with exactly the same starting point, because you can do that within today's model. And that's also done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e576	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e582	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the amended overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Eva M. Nielsen to the Minister of Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family, who will direct him. Question 6, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Defence, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Defence, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 11-14, from the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Thore A. Nistad, Per Roar Bredvold and Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken respectively to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e601	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Vanylven municipality in More and Romesdal has lost a lot of jobs in recent years. The loss of jobs poses major challenges for small communities. Møre and Romsdal states have agreed to support the conversion work in the municipality with an annual promise of 1 million. NOK 4 years. What will the Council of State do to secure Vanylven's status as a municipality of conversion?»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e610	I would like to draw attention to the fact that two years ago we carried out a reform in which we transferred more of the Ministry's work related to regional development, including the question of migration status, to the counties. I believe that the county councils, based on their responsibility as regional development actors, are the best and closest to assessing and determining the status of conversion in individual municipalities. It is according to St.meld. No 19 for 2001–02, on task-sharing at regional level, which was subsequently widely endorsed by other parties in the Stortinget. The county council as a regional development actor is also responsible for monitoring the migration municipalities in their use of funds. This is also the correct division of responsibilities, as I said, according to the budgetary structure that we have adopted after the reform. From 2003 onwards, the county authorities were given greater responsibility for the use of regional policy instruments, and the money was transferred by the Ministry of Local Affairs. Municipalities shall, in cooperation with the regional partnership, allocate frameworks to the operational actors. This means that counties can give far greater priority to geographical areas which they believe should be given more attention to. This solution is also less bureaucratic than the old scheme, as the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has granted status as a convertor. So it's no longer like this, as it might seem from the question, that we assign conversion status to municipalities. It is a status granted by county municipalities, not by the state. More and Romsdal County received 75.5 million in 2004. kr over cap. 551 item 60 for regional development. Of them, 5 million. kr discretionary assigned to transfers in the county. The equivalent is 7.5 million. kr of the 2005 allocation discretionary allocation to meet the migration challenges in particular in Vanylven and Smøla. This means that More and Romsdal have been given an extra priority because they have municipalities with migration challenges, but it is up to the county to give priority to this. More and Romesdal counties have been in dialogue with Vanylven municipality on the migration challenges in the municipality for two to three years. Vanylven municipality has shown the willingness and ability to meet the migration challenges of today's situation. The municipality has also been granted the status of conversion of the county from 2004, which will last for four years, out of 2007. Furthermore, a local partnership has been established with, inter alia: More and Romesdal counties and Innovation Norway, dealing with the transition challenges in Vanylven. The work is organised through the establishment of the company Vanylven Vekst. More and Romsdal states have granted 1 million in 2004. NOK for this work, and the municipality accordingly. I have been informed that the Food and Environment Committee in Møre and Romesdal County will look into the appropriations for conversion work in the municipality of Vanylven in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e625	I'm also familiar with the information that the council here comes with, but I want to emphasize that for the last three years, Vanylven, a municipality with about 3,800 inhabitants, has lost about 400 jobs, almost 25 pst. And as the Council of State said, Vanylven has shown both the ability and the willingness to convert. I would also like to remind you that they won the so-called price of sunshine in 2004. Both Ardal and Høyanger in Sogn and Fjordane have previously received awards similar to what we characterise as conversion agents. My question to the Council of State, to which I would like it to give a more complete answer, is: does the Council of State not see that Vanylven, with the special problems of this municipality, can come under the same category as the two municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e632	Now it's the way that money has been allocated to the county council for conversion work, precisely because you have challenges in Vanylven. We have made a responsibilities reform that has focused on it. In the case of Årdal and Høyanger, I believe that the situation is not comparable, because Årdal and Høyanger have major changes, and because the municipality constitutes a common housing and labour market, while the municipality of Vanylven is probably part of a larger common housing and labour market. If we have implemented the responsibilities reform, and if we have implemented decentralisation, it is also important that we, who are dedicated to decentralizing, delegating and giving more power to the regions and to the local communities, actually also follow up on accepting that that is the way it is. The alternative to adding to the conversion work to be carried out by the county municipalities will be to withdraw part of the funds available to the county today in order for the State to contribute to the conversion work. I believe in principle that the county council is closer and better compared to making these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e641	If this is to work in full harmony with what the Council of State here claims, it should probably do much more. In Vanylven, Olivin was a corner stone company that went with surplus, and as late as 1999 it was 116 million. kr in dividends paid to the Norwegian State. Also at the sale large funds came into the treasury. Vanylven has lost jobs, they have lost skills, so they feel that this is where the state – the big community – fails. With their contributions to the Treasury, they get little left. I might agree with the idea of the municipal minister when she says this is going to happen under the authority of the county council, but Vanylven is a very special case, so it should be possible to go in and take a special look at it. Can the Council of State then understand that in the community it is perceived as very bitter that they are lost for both jobs and competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e650	I understand that getting into a phase where jobs are lost is a difficult situation for all municipalities. If the alternatives to other types of work are small in a municipality, then it is stronger than in the common housing and labour market in which the municipality of Vanylven participates. Let me say this: the municipality of Vanylven now receives – at least if you distribute the means of conversion that we have given extra to the county council, to Vanylven and Smøla, because of the challenges there – money at the level of the declared conversion municipalities with significantly greater job losses previously received by the state. So there are programs that are at the level of the conversion work and the appropriations that have now been used. have been granted to several Finnish State municipalities to build their conversion skills. I would like to stress that a very important part of this in building conversion skills is to ensure that new opportunities can be exploited. These include: the activities of those growing companies that have been established. In addition, there is the possibility for operators to find out that there are other specific measures that they can give priority to within their allocations in the work they now have in cooperation with the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e661	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The widow of a Norwegian fisherman from Berlevåg who lost his life on the sea is expelled due to: lack of connection, despite being in fulltime work and being well integrated in the community. The fact that the spouse is at risk of being expelled leads to a considerable additional burden when the ‘Norwegian’ works in vulnerable professions. Will the Council of State consider this specific matter and will it consider the rules with a view to reducing the additional burden on vulnerable professionals and including the level of integration in the assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e670	Initially, I would like to clarify that under the Foreign Affairs Act I do not have the opportunity to intervene in this case, instruct about a given result or make changes that require only solving a single case. The case is still pending in the Foreign Affairs Directorate, and it is unfortunate, based on the law adopted by the Storting, if the State Council is to stand in the Storing and have strong opinions on the outcome of such a case. I'll see that as a violation of the law that's actually passed in this room. But I want to stress on the more general basis that matters like this are very difficult. It is not easy to give an exhaustive answer to which cases should qualify for a residence permit in Norway. Allowance for family reunification shall be subject to the condition that the relationship is established over a long period of time. Therefore, if the relationship falls away, the starting point is that the right to a residence permit is no longer present. However, it is necessary to clarify that the legislation provides for opening up in order to be able to stress that the spouse of the foreigner has gone away in such a tragic way, through the provisions on residence on the basis of strong human considerations. Furthermore, decisions on the withdrawal of a residence permit will never be taken without prior notice to the foreigner concerned. The alien concerned will always be given the opportunity to explain its situation before taking a decision. I will also be allowed to stress that it is a general view that losing their permission to be in Norway is equivalent to what is expressed in the question as ‘to be expelled’. Being expelled is something other than losing the basis of their residence permit. In this case, there is a question of a residence permit and not a question of expulsion. So expulsion is something we do because a person commits a criminal act or violates the foreign law by being illegal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e681	The laws are passed in this house, and the council must deal with it. But the regulations that the department produces are not within this house. It is also the responsibility of the Council of States. Is it so to understand that the Council of State does not take responsibility for the regulations drawn up in her department, which could have given this person a residence permit in Berlevåg?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e686	We take responsibility for all the regulations we draw up and adopt, including regulations we sometimes adopt because the Storting has decided that we should develop them. It happens in the interior of the foreign field. But it is especially when a case is pending and not finalised, on the basis of a law that explicitly states that the Council of State is not allowed to go into individual cases in order to decide them. When I then said that I would not go into and say anything about the assessment of this individual matter, it is because the matter is being dealt with. There is a discretionary room that needs to be assessed according to the space for action of the non-resident administration and is wide. That is one of the reasons why I have promoted a legislative change that lies in Stortinget, where we should have an opportunity on a general basis to instruct – not in individual cases, but on the type of treatment. I would like to remind you that the Foreign Affairs Act is special in the sense that it is explicitly such that the Council of State should not go into individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e693	In this case it is a man who married a stranger, and then he drowned, as it says in my question, before it had been a year. Isn't it time for the Council of State to do something, so that there won't be an expulsion for this woman, when the man drowned at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e698	The Council of State has probably answered this question sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e701	Out of respect for Norwegian law, Stortingen’s law, I cannot respond to the content of a single matter that is being dealt with in the foreign administration. It would be to break Norwegian law, and I don't intend to do that, either outside or on this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e717	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e724	‘Today, fathers who are denied access to their children have to pay high contributions, since the deduction is assessed only on the basis of the amount of time they spend with their children. The reason for lack of association is not considered. Sometimes the reason is that mothers sabotage the association agreement. Does the Council of State think it is right that we have a system that promotes mothers who refuse to have a fatherly relationship with their children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e731	The issue that Trine Skei Grande is travelling is also known to me. Disagreement between parents on the association and sabotage of association with one of the parties has been renewed in the context of the new legislation on contributions. The issue is addressed in the report entitled ‘Experience with new rules for the definition and modification of child benefit’, contained in St.prp. No 1 for 2004-2005. As this report shows, experience shows that the issue of association has been problematic for some parents. The level of conflict is high in some cases and consensus may be difficult to reach. The representative Skei Grande asks if I think it's okay that we have a system that honors mothers who refuse to associate with their children with their fathers. The purpose of the contribution legislation is to provide the child with reasonable and necessary care from their parents. In the case of the consensual deduction, this shall cover the costs incurred by the person liable during the consensual meeting and which the beneficiary saves at the same time. Where, for various reasons, there is no association, and this is clear, the contributor will also not bear the costs of the association, and consequently no deduction is made from the contribution. This applies regardless of the reason why there is no association. It is simply a matter of whether or not it is association, and not of why it is not association. This must be the case in terms of economics. In any event, the disagreements of the parents shall not affect the child’s need for care. With regard to situations where the reason for non-cohabitation is the locked conflict of parents, it will be – as it works today – the courts that are right to deal with this where other types of means of conflict resolution have been tested. The courts are used to dealing with such complex conflicts and have the necessary competence and expertise in these matters. Where there is a coercive agreement or decision, judgment or conciliation on association that is not respected by the person with whom the child lives, the Children’s Act has some sanctioning powers. First, the person entitled to co-opt may bring the matter before the court for enforcement. The only coercion that can be used in this respect is coercion. Bringing up the child with coercion will go too far on the child. The periodic penalty payment may be fixed as a standing periodic penalty payment, which means that it starts to run again each time the right of association is not respected. Secondly, the person entitled to co-exist has the opportunity to request a new decision as to who should be responsible for the parental responsibility or who should be the child's permanent residence. In this context, I would also like to mention the changes in the process of child distribution which came into force on 1 April 2004. These changes mean that the treatment of child-distribution cases has been simplified. This is an easier procedure that we hope will lead to good contractual solutions between parents. Finally, the issues mentioned above are complex and complex. I'm following developments closely. The evaluation of the new contribution rules requested by the Stortinget is under way. It can contribute to knowledge of the reasons for disagreement and how such conflicts between parents can be resolved. As promised, I will present a big message on this before the end of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e746	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Clearly, the new rules have led to fewer conflicts for many. But for those who are involved, this less unfair sail won't be if someone else has achieved greater justice. I think the long-standing gender equality effort has made it possible for us to have a different kind of fathers – fathers who want to do more for their children. That's why I have three questions for the Council of State. Firstly, if a periodic penalty payment is one of the instruments, is it not possible to introduce it into the current system of contributions rather than to bring it before the courts? Secondly, does the Council of State see it as unfair when it first fails to see its children and the ‘sabotage’ of the association agreement as evidenced by the fact that more is also to be paid because you have not seen your children? Thirdly, can the Council of State assure me that there should not be any ideas that should not be tested in terms of means of remedying this injustice when going through the system again?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e764	I have a lot of understanding for those who experience that they have a double problem because they are not seeing their children and are not receiving any deductions from their co-operation payment. I have a great deal of understanding of this. There are also some issues the other way around, where cohabitation parents have made an agreement and where one does not meet. There were major conflicts about getting together in some of the divorce families even before new legislation came into force. No ideas should be inexperienced, and if the representative Skei Grande and, for that matter, others have ideas about how this can be handled better, both before, during and after the evaluation, we accept them with thanks. In the case of periodic penalty payments into today’s contribution system, there is just a proposal for a solution that may be relevant for evaluation. But I have to make sure that we have to evaluate the scheme, and we are already doing it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e771	I thank the Council of State. I think it is reassuring that she should not leave any stones unversed. I also fully agree with the Council of State that the child should be in the focus, and that in most of the stories we have heard, it probably goes «the other way». Most of the stories I've heard, and the enquiries I've got about this, probably go the other way. But that does not mean that injustice to those who want to be ‘orderly’ fathers feels less, sail if there have traditionally been more fathers who have dropped agreements than have been frustrated by not keeping them. Can the Council of State assure me that she will still keep this in focus, sail if most of the stories perhaps go the other way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e778	I can assure you. It is very important for a child to have the best possible contact with both parents, even after a break in life. I can also mention that we are going to look at other countries' arrangements in this field. Sweden has a slightly different system, which calculates the co-occurrence payment based on the actual co-occurrence that has been, even if you can also agree in advance. So they have two inputs to this problem. Of course, we have not yet decided whether this can be a way of doing so in Norway. I can mention that in Denmark you are now looking at new systems of association. So we also follow closely abroad. I hope we'll come up with a better solution if it turns out that this is a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e789	This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e792	I have asked the Minister for Education the following questions about education policy, which is why I am particularly excited about the answer given by another Council of State: ‘The quality reform for higher education emphasises that Norwegian students will have international experience, both in full education abroad and abroad/study, in the context of encouraging education in Norway. It is therefore important to facilitate the framework conditions for students in order to ensure that study stays abroad can be carried out without heavy financial burden on students. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian students who are eligible for cash support in Norway also receive cash support when studying abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e801	The question has been asked to the Minister for Education and Research. As the responsible State Council for the cash support scheme, I want to answer the question. Under the Cash Support Act, there is a condition for entitlement to cash support that both the child and the person receiving cash support reside in Norway. In the case of stays abroad exceeding three months, the amount of the benefit shall be eliminated. The background to this rule is that the right to cash support is closely linked to whether and to what extent the child uses nursery facilities with public operating grants. This means that no person who goes abroad for more than three months is entitled to cash support under the Cash Support Act. This applies irrespective of the purpose of living abroad, irrespective of whether the family is living in or outside the EEA territory, and regardless of whether they are insured in Norway during their stay abroad. However, some groups in the EEA area are entitled to cash support under the EEA Agreement. This does not apply to students. I would like to stress that it is not the case that all Norwegian employees in the EEA area receive cash support. A Norwegian who works in Germany is generally insured there and does not receive cash or other social security benefits from Norway. In December 2004, 146 Norwegian citizens received cash support under the EEA rules. These persons are public officials or sent by the Norwegian employer for a shorter period. It is these groups that have been granted exemptions from the general rule that you should be insured in the country in which you work. So others who stay abroad for more than three months do not receive cash support, even though they are a member of the population during their stay abroad. If Norwegian students abroad were entitled to cash support for their children, I believe that the right could not be restricted to the EEA territory, but had to apply in general. In addition, I believe that it would be unreasonable to provide cash support during a stay abroad only to students and not to other groups of Nordics abroad. In my opinion, therefore, there are good reasons to maintain today's strict housing requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e814	I thank you for your answer. So the starting point for the issue is the educational policy aspect. I repeat that it is that we encourage students to go abroad, in fact also for more than three months. The reality for many is that you do not get the financial arrangements you have as a student in Norway, at a Norwegian university, whether you are Norwegian and have children when you are a student, but follow the call and go abroad. Does the Council of State think that this is a fair and understandable student policy? Does the Council of State believe that such discrimination supports the government's desire for Norwegian students to gain international experience in their education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e823	Students travelling abroad are treated equally with other groups travelling abroad. Thus, the cash support cannot be exported. I have had the small exception that is in connection with the EEA agreement, but then the employee is sent out of Norway and employed in a Norwegian company. So they're treated equal. That's the starting point for my answer. I would also like to point out that in the context of the evaluation of cash support as late as 2002, in the treatment of Innst. S. No 94 for 2001–02, Stortingen assessed this, and noted this. It takes too long to read this, but I feel that the Storting has handled this matter and said that there is no majority to export the cash support with the students out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e830	It is still the case that this issue has been raised in an attempt to shed light on the educational policy aspect. Calculations made by ANSA — quite fresh ones — show that it can be about an annual basis. 3.5 million. kr. There are several things you can do to ensure that Norwegian students abroad get the same conditions as Norwegian students in Norway. It is therefore possible to change the rules on cash support for those living abroad, even for a longer period than the 30 days in which the Council of State has been involved, or to take an initiative to secure schemes providing similar support related to residence or dependant burden when you are a student abroad. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make such changes so as to continue to encourage Norwegian students to stay abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e839	It is clearly important that Norwegian students are given the opportunity to travel abroad, as the representative says, and they are also encouraged to do so. With regard to the cash support and my responsibility, I believe that the cash support is not the instrument to be used. It would have a good deal of consequences if you were to give the cash support to people other than students, and it would be difficult not to do so. We could also address the problem of e.g. foreign students in Norway could then require cash support while studying in Norway. That's the one. The other thing is – I think I should read the comment in the setting that I mentioned earlier. It's very short: ‘The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People’s Party refer to ANSA’s input into the hearing of the Committee on cash support for foreign students with young children. These members will point out that cash support is an alternative to a publicly supported kindergarten and believe that this issue is of general economic urgency and that the situation of students with young children should be looked at in the study funding context.» The other parties did not comment on this comment, which was therefore part of the evaluation of the cash support. Since it is such a short time since the Storting had this up, I have not had the basis to go in and change the Cash Support Act in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e851	Question 6 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e858	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘The US Aviation Authority, the FAA, has recently recommended the US authorities to have a back-up system for navigation and points to Loran C as the most clearly safest. England is now building its first Loran C station to secure its own waters. Our Loran C system is going down in 2006. In the light of this new information, will the Council of State take the initiative to re-evaluate the need to continue with Loran C?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e867	The 2002 draft budget presented the Government’s proposal that Norway withdraw from the Loran C cooperation. The agreement had to be terminated in 2004 in order to allow Norway to withdraw from the agreement after the first ten-year period. Norwegian authorities have assessed Loran C as a backup system. Prior to the proposal to withdraw from the agreement, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs carried out a Norwegian user survey. Feedback was received that Loran C was very little used. It was therefore not relevant to continue the so-called NELS agreement for a new contractual period. Of the six Member States, Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland, Germany and Norway have decided to withdraw from the agreement after the first period. Only France has decided to continue with Loran C. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities have notified that the Norwegian Loran C stations will be closed with effect from 1 January 2006. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are nevertheless closely following the development of EU navigation policy. In this year’s draft budget, we have shown that the EU has assessed vulnerability by relying unilaterally on GPS. The EU has found that it is desirable to establish its own European satellite navigation system, Galileo. The Government therefore decided in December 2004 that Norway should apply to the EU for negotiations in order to participate in the Galileo project. This will also have an impact on Norway’s development of Europe’s navigation infrastructure. We are already involved in the preparation of a European radio-navigation plan. In this context, the need for possible additional systems will also be considered. The EU has not yet defined which system is desirable. Loran C is one of several candidates. In Norway we will drive Loran C out 2005. That means we're maintaining our good Loran C knowledge and competence in 2005. If it turns out that the EU chooses Loran C as its backup system, it will be possible to assess the continued operation of the system in Norway until around the summer of 2005. I am also aware that the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration has conducted a study on Loran C. This technical study concludes that Loran C could be used as a replacement system, with some limitations. We are also following developments in the United States to assess whether we are going to close down or whether we are going to continue Loran C as a national navigation system beyond 2005, just as we are following developments in the EU. But once we cancel the agreement, it's related to if we were to be able to get out of it, we had to do it before New Year's. But we are following developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e884	I thank you for the answer, which I see as very positive in relation to what is also my purpose in the question, namely that you do not put Loran C down in 2006, to discover that it might be necessary to use it as a reserve system, and that a number of countries around us that do not currently have Loran C establish it as a future reserve system for example. Galileo, which is a sensible project to participate in. I assume that, in view of the fact that the EU should not terminate its assessment of a future back-up system during 2005, the Government will nevertheless try to put in place a temporary system so that Loran C can be maintained, and thus retain that competence until the EU decides what kind of back-up system you want to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e891	I just want to make it clear that we have terminated the agreement, not least on the basis of a study that showed that Loran C is very little used in all possible forms of communication, and it was also clear from the hearing bodies that it was not used. But at the same time, we have an open eye for the development that is now taking place internationally. We have concluded an agreement with the EU on the development of Galileo, and we still have time to reconsider if there is to be a new development in Europe, or in the United States, for that matter. So we have the door open, but we've patted out the way on the basis of the user studies we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e896	I am aware of the background to the termination of the agreement on Loran C, and that there is limited use of the system that warrants this. But all the time when other countries consider the need for a backup system – not a system in daily use, but a backup system – and assess it so that Loran C can be the best, I am pleased with what the Council of State says, that he has a focus on this, and that he will follow developments forward this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e901	Yes – I have nothing to add. We follow the evolution, and then we see where it's going.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e911	I have a question for the Minister of Health: «KOLS lung disease can be serious and affect many. I have become aware that the Swedish Medicines Agency has decided not to approve the reimbursement under Section 9 of the Blue prescription of so-called combined medicines that have been used to date both for asthma and for COPD. This means that COPD patients will not receive such medicines without having to seek specialist advice and then apply for access to such medicines. This runs counter to the decision taken by the Storting during the 2005 budget review. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e920	The combination preparations Symbicort and Seretide, to which the representative Kristoffersen refers in his question, were authorised for the worst COPD patients in 2003. The pharmaceutical companies have applied for a pre-authorised refund for these medicinal products to this patient group. The evidence available shows that these medicinal products have a modest additional effect compared to alternative medicinal products. On this basis, the State Medicines Agency has assessed that the therapeutic value is not proportionate to the costs and has therefore rejected the applications for reimbursement in 2004. On this basis, I would like to state that these medicinal products under the legislation have never had a pre-authorised refund under the regulation § 9 for use against COPD. Saleshall may indicate that medicinal products are prescribed for the treatment of COPD in contravention of the legislation. The scope can be large. The representative of Kristoffersen refers to the following decisions of the majority of the Social Committee, which consisted of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, in the examination of the 2005 budget: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the medicinal products used in the treatment of chronic obstructive lung disease: [[COLS]] If the decision of the Grand Duchy is to be interpreted to mean that the combined medicinal products in question are now to be taken up on a pre-approved refund, in order to legalise a revised practice which does not comply with the legislation in force, this would be contrary to the Medical Products Agency's technical advice and could also have significant budgetary implications. However, the Socialist Left Party, by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, said in the debate in Stortinget that ‘premises to support such a proposal must be that there is reimbursement for drugs which were actually intended to be used for the purpose for which it is refunded’. I have interpreted SV's contributions to the debate so that SV supports the Committee's proposals if reimbursement for COPD medicinal products takes place in accordance with the current legislation. COLS, as the representative of Kristoffersen says, is a serious disease that affects many, and I am concerned that the worst COPD patients should have an offer of reimbursement through the prescription section 10a.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e943	I think one should be extremely politically unmusical in order not to understand what Stortinget has thought about this matter. I don't think I'm going to assume that the bulk of the population has not understood what the matter is about the indications that these combination preparations – no names mentioned – could be used, as they are now, by COPD patients. I assume that when a general practitioner prescribes a medicinal product, he does so based on the best medical judgement and, most often, in consultation with the patient – and in accordance with Norwegian and international guidelines. I have also seen what the Swedish Medical Products Agency has written about the cost and impact. I record that these drugs have a positive effect – as far as I can see as an absolute layman – and that the cost of using them as now is minimal. So I have to ask the Council of State: does he really think that what has been practiced so far has been wrong – and not for the benefit of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e954	Whether or not all of the drugs prescribed in the blue prescription have benefited patients is a question that, of course, cannot be answered. I am quite convinced that too large groups have definitely benefited from the drugs themselves. What is the question is, what is the legislation in force in this area? There are a lot of medicines that many people would want to be on blue prescription, but that's not. The Swedish Medical Products Agency has a professional assessment of the dietary benefit of this. It's kind of a professional debate – you can be for or against, but it's also a question of what the Storting has said in this case. I have to say that we have made a nine-time assessment of both the setting and what has been said in the debate. And if I may, I will refer you to another premise from the assessment that we have now made, in a quote from the representative of Ballo: ‘But if it is the case that Norwegian doctors have a prescribing practice that prescribes medication on false premises that the drug was not intended for that purpose, a reimbursement scheme should not be continued on the basis of those premises.’ As far as I remember, it was that SV was not involved in the proposal in the committee, but supported it in the Chamber – on these premises. The interpretations of this have been used by my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e968	I have no comment on the Council's interpretation of this right here and now, but I am amazed that an opinion from one party – from one representative – is so strongly emphasized. However, what I want to focus on now, in an additional question, is that it is important that the stakeholders, the patient organisations, are heard. In a correspondence in 2003 between the Workers’ Party’s Group and the then Health Minister, Højbräten, the Minister of Health indicated that there should be a consultation on this matter. As far as I am aware, the patient organisations involved are not heard. This is question a. Question b – At the same time: We have a blue prescription, which should guarantee the quality of the decision-making basis both for the State Medicines Agency and for the State Council. Does the Council of State know whether the blue recipe has been inside the picture, which should normally be?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e980	I cannot answer these two questions here and now in detail – what kind of patient organisations have been involved in the proceedings, and, similarly, on the subject of Blue prescription and their opinion or not the opinion in this case. I am fully aware that this drug we are talking about here, has definitely had an effect, not least for the hardest affected COPD patients. What I have understood from the Agency’s assessment is that the cost-benefit of these two medicines – the cost of a total of NOK 500 million – is not in line with the printing practice established. The National Audit Office has also been concerned that we have a code that is consistent with it. In the light of what Mr Asmund Kristoffersen has to say, it will be natural for me to go deeper into this matter related to the two additional questions at the end of the day – and then, if necessary, to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e993	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘Ullevål and Haukeland University Hospitals have applied for the new blood test of pregnant women for those who are currently entitled to foetal diagnostics. Will the Council of State ensure that the two hospitals mentioned are allowed to carry out this test already in the 12th week of pregnancy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1002	The representative John I. Alvheim points out that Ullevål University Hospital and Haukeland University Hospital have applied for the ‘new blood test’ for those who are currently entitled to foetal diagnostics, and asks questions about whether the Council of State will ensure that hospitals are given such an authorisation to carry out this test already in the 12th week of pregnancy. I guess that's the so-called double and triple test the representative Alvheim is aiming for. The double and triple tests are performed by analysing some markers in the blood of the pregnant woman. The proteins analysed originate from the foetus and have been transferred to mother’s blood via the mother cake. Depending on the cursor, abnormally high or low values indicate that the foetus does not develop normally. The study is to be regarded as a foetal diagnostic according to the Biotechnology Act and has to be approved by the Ministry. The approval of foetal diagnostic methods must be based on a health evaluation and the power to approve such methods has therefore been delegated to the Directorate-General for Social and Health. Before granting an authorisation, the application shall be submitted to the Biotechnology Topic. I am aware that the Social and Health Directorate sent the application for a double test and triple test to women applying for foetal diagnostics to the Biotechnology topic on 26 October 2004. Biotechnology concerns the matter on 12 January of this year. It is recommended, in one vote, that such blood samples be approved. The matter is now being dealt with in the Social and Health Directorate. With regard to the time at which the duplicate and triple tests should be carried out, this must be based on a health evaluation where the requirement for scientific evidence is met. It would be wrong if I were to go in and think something about the time of such foetal diagnostic examinations. This will be a professional question. According to the Biotechnology Study, the double test is carried out between 8 and 13 weeks of gestation and the triple test between 14 and 18 weeks of gestation. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the possible introduction of a double and triple test as a foetal diagnostic method does not imply any changes to the guidelines given regarding the indications for foetal diagnostics. This implies that the conditions for foetal diagnostics must be met in order for the method to be applied, but in that case it may also be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1017	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have now also come to know that the subject of biotechnology has almost unanimously recommended that this authorisation should now be granted. But it doesn't matter to me if this comes into force in two months, five months, eight months or, for example, two years. That Council of State did not say anything about the answer, i.e. he did so in part – is that with the technique today, with new and modern foetal diagnostics, it is possible to detect foetal harm incompatible with life already in the 12th week of pregnancy. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes that the legislation needs to be amended in order for this test to be taken as early as the 12th week of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1026	Only in relation to the possible time for implementation: Once you have completed your professional assessments, there is no reason for this to take any time. There will be no political review of any kind on my part in relation to the decision being taken. When it comes to carrying out the test, I have understood from a technical assessment in the field of Biology Technology that the double test is carried out between 8 and 13 weeks, and a triple test, if any, to really double check, is carried out between 14 and 18 weeks of gestation. These are professional recommendations from the Biotechnology Study, which, as the representative Alvheim says, are almost unanimous – against just one vote. The assessments of the majority of the denominator will be based on my judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1033	I thank the Council of State again for the answer and do not need any further follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1042	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Stavanger Pårørdecenter is continued after a four-year trial project as a foundation with both public and private owners. The Centre has experience and competence that should fit well into the Government's alert thinking. The centre should therefore be stimulated to systematise its experience through the development of a model that may be related to drug use, psychiatry and gambling addiction beyond the facilities available to treatment institutions. Would the Council of State contribute to the experience of several municipalities?’ – I have to be aware that at the inception I should have written that the Centre is a voluntary foundation, but with an operating agreement from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1053	The short answer is yes. I'm going to go into it a little bit more. The representative centre of Stavanger received State grants for a trial project for four years and was continued from 2002 as a foundation with grants from the municipality of Stavanger, the municipality of Sandnes and the municipality of Rogaland. Health Vest continues this support as a result of the transfer of responsibility for drug treatment from the county to the regional health establishments. It is commendable that the situation of those affected is emphasised by local authorities and health firms, and that related work is part of the municipal drug policy action plan. In the case of drug users, as well as those with mental health problems, there is a great deal of personal stress, and for many, it has consequences for their own health. They should deal with both the drug addict and the patient’s situation, while taking care of other family members and relatives, as well as caring for jobs and their own health. They may also experience stigmatisation and social isolation because drug abuse and mental disorders can still be associated with both shame and guilt. They may need information, guidance and help to master both their own situation and the patient’s situation. Many treatment institutions for drug addicts have related work as part of their activities, but it is often found that the regular auxiliaries do not take sufficient account of the situation and the need for assistance and the importance of being included in the design of relief and treatment services. In addition to the activities of treatment institutions, the different state grants are provided for related work. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health distributes among others: Contribution to the National Association Against Substance Abuse and to the project ‘self-help, knowledge and mastering for drug addicts’. A number of measures have been implemented to improve the situation of relatives and to increase cooperation between relatives and service providers through the Roadmap for Mental Health. This appropriation is intended, inter alia, to: the means of user and related organisations, and cooperation of the auxiliaries with them is required. The work related to it shall be systematised and the Directorate for Social and Health has now been entrusted with the task of drawing up an action plan in cooperation with user and related organisations and service providers. We will listen to what users and relatives themselves think, and I invited you to a dialogue meeting on 17 January that marked the start of this plan work. Furthermore, over the state budget, it is set at $4 million. kr for the establishment of a National Resource Centre for User and Related Competence, the Frogner Centre, under the direction of Mental Health. I am concerned that experience from good local action can be disseminated to others who may benefit from the work. I would therefore like to ask the Social and Health Directorate to assess the experience of the Agency in its work on this action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1068	I would first like to thank you for a positive answer. The centre party has followed the centre of Stavanger from the start as a test project under the Bondevik I Government until it is now established as a foundation with a permanent operating agreement. We see that both Stavanger and Sandnes have gone in, as well as the Sun last year. One deals with agreements with several municipalities, and it is right, as the council says, that also Health West is in. I have even met relatives who have received help from this center, who are very happy. I have also registered that there are other municipalities that are now contacting the Family Centre in Stavanger to obtain advice in relation to similar arrangements in their own municipality. What time aspect does the Council of State have for the action plan he outlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1079	I have spent a lot of my time in the harvest on the family situation, not only in the psychiatric and ru area, but also in the health care system in general. I know it was an engagement also had by the representative Meltveit Kleppa, and I think the representative was a bit too modest when she defined it as «under the Bondevik I government». As far as I remember, the then government councillor Meltveit Kleppa started this. What is my absolute experience, both in the last six months and in general, is that the relative situation has not been adequately addressed in the healthcare system. They have often been viewed as part of the problem and not as part of the solution. It has been strongly shown to me this fall. That is why we have started a considerable effort to find the solution to this problem. I was even in England this fall to see what they're doing there, and I have to say that I definitely think we have something to learn. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been given this assignment. They have now committed the related organisations to promoting a draft of what we can do in relation to this, and the relevant organisations and the directorate will come together with such a proposal to me on what we can do, already in the first half of the year, for this requires the 110 000 who work in the Norwegian healthcare system to take a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1086	It is not so rare for both the Center Party and other parties to find reason to correct the government and ask them to speed up, strengthen their efforts, etc. in this field. So it's a pleasure for me to give praise to the Minister of Health because he's just busy with a field that I think it's very important to strengthen. What he's sketching here, sounds really good. When I take this up, it's because I know that there's competence here. Here's experience, and here's an impression from other municipalities. I think it would have been more tidy both for the municipalities, for this center and not least for a government council that is busy with this field, that a good model is being developed that others can use. Then it is true that the directorate is asked to prepare plans, and then they are not followed up well enough, cf. the osteoarthritis plan. But I understand it now so that this has the Council of State itself taking care of, and he wants to support the necessary progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1095	The last thing I can guarantee is that I have this. I myself chair the working groups we have in this area. I've had a lot of people -- let me call it the musculoskeletal -- meet both single relatives and not least their organization, who have a lot of experience with these things. I can say that it's not just about making a plan. Here's what we should actually do in each institution to implement this, because there's a lot of good ideas that have been put into practice in some places, but this isn't consistent for the health care system. We need to have a national approach to this and try to implement it in pretty health Norway. It's also true in the somatic. One day you are placed in a bed in a department where you have the white crowd – I kept saying – around you. The next day, the closest relatives are to care for him. It's quite obvious that in this transition we haven't taken seriously enough to consecrate those who are relatives, because they'll be part of the solution and not, as they've so often seen in health care, part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1104	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1107	I have the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, who answers on behalf of the Minister for Transport: ‘1. Last February, Eastfold Toll Corporation changed its rocking cards. The change is that the cards are no longer valid for a certain number of passages, but for a certain amount of money. In the new year, the tariffs rose significantly, so that 30,000 Eastern folds that subscribe now receive far fewer passages out of what they have paid. Does the Council of State consider that there is a sustainable practice established by Østfold Bompengegesellschaft AS, or is existing legislation broken?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1116	The question raised by the representative Hedstrøm here is extensive and also has a clear relevance for toll companies other than Eastfold Bombengegesellschaft AS. It is mainly about the handling of subscription agreements concluded in the event of a transition to AutoPASS. A concrete answer to the question requires a more thorough assessment of all aspects of the case than it has been possible to do as a basis for a question-time question. I must therefore, on behalf of the Minister for Transport, ask to return to Stortinget with a written statement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1123	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was very satisfactory. This means that the Ministry needs to address the issues on a broad basis and provide the Storting with an adequate response. We believe that this case raises questions about the toll company's standard agreement in relation to the marketing law. We believe that when an agreement is concluded, it must be the starting point for the agreement that is in force, and that changes to the contractual period are not introduced by either party. It will be exciting to see what conclusions the Ministry will make here, whether new rules on the standard agreement of the toll company can be retroactively applied, or whether this is a breach of the contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1132	I do not have the basis for taking the final conclusion, but I share the questions raised by the representative Hedstrom. Therefore, the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport will pursue the case against Vegvesen, because the practice chosen by Østfold Bompengegesellschaft here is not entirely acceptable. But we see the need to go deeper into it and get the questions that the questioner here addresses. We will then come back to Stortinget with a written statement when we have been exposed and reached a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1137	I don't want any follow-up. I am pleased with the answers of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1146	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1149	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘According to Vegvesenet, road accidents caused personal injury in Uppland over 1 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. For 2004, there is a total of 700 million. kr of funds allocated unused in the Vegvesen budget, while Oppland has several road projects that have been on the waiting list for many years, and the accident rate is high in some places. Will the Council of State help to ensure that unused funds can be used as soon as possible for the routes of accidents that have been waiting for several years for improvements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1158	Minor consumption in 2004 is largely due to the fact that the ethos has been in strong transition. However, the entire allocation for investment purposes within the 2004 Road Administration budget is earmarked for specific projects. Redisposal of unused funds to new projects will mean that priority projects already cannot be implemented as foreseen. I cannot therefore accept such a principle. In order to avoid coming into the same situation in 2005, a number of measures are being implemented by the State Road Service. In particular, capacity to develop the basis for competition will be increased. In order to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of smaller measures previously implemented as individual contracts, these will be more closely merged into larger contracts than in the past. The scope of total contractor prices where the contractor is given the project responsibility will also be increased. In order to achieve better governance and increased capacity to take action during the year, better and more frequent consumption forecasts are set out earlier in the year. I have also asked to be kept informed about the progress of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1167	I thank you for your answer. It was very good, and it was nice that you would speed up the Roadway. The road system has had a good deal of problems, and it goes a little too slowly. What goes very well, on the other hand, and as the Government has started with the support of the Advance Party, are the so-called OPS projects, public-private cooperation. Last week, the Government presented another OPS project, which is E18 at Grimstad. It turns out this has a construction time of 40 pst. faster than that of the public. Will the Council of State help to launch even more such OPS projects, allowing individuals to have both the planning, construction and operation of the road sections?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1176	I have a duty to draw attention to the fact that it is the Minister for Transport who has taken care of these things. It is not a consequence that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is involved in the affairs of the Minister for Transport, that the questioner is satisfied. However, the issue raised is clearly a problem that needs increased monitoring, and I am confident that the measures that the Road Administration has now taken will deliver results, so that we do not get into this situation too often. With regard to the use of OPS, as the questioner says, it is one of the instruments and one of the measures requested by a broad majority of the Grand Duchy, and which the Government is behind, precisely to increase road safety and road safety out of each krona.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1185	I am pleased and thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1194	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1197	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The municipality of Stor-Elvdal in Hedmark is one of several municipalities which consider it unreasonable that they have to pay for the killing of elk damaged by trains, as the Railway Agency now requires. This may amount to approx. NOK 100000 per year. The cost is that, for safety reasons, the municipality’s people do not have access to the railway without the railway station’s safety staff. Does the Council of State consider this to be reasonable and will she contribute to the freeing of this cost by the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1206	Now the Minister of Fisheries and Coast is high to mountains, but I'm going to answer this question. When a train runs on an animal, the impact is so strong that in nearly 90 pst. in the case of animals, the animals die instantaneously. In some cases the animal must be killed by the driver. Neither the municipalities nor the Railway Agency have costs of killing in such cases. The dead animals are picked up by the Railway Agency, which also covers the costs of the removal of cadavers and waste management. In other words, the railway works cover the maximum costs related to animal driving. In case of some damage, approx. 10 pst. in the case of animals, the affected animal does not immediately die and is able to move away from the place of loading. These animals are usually damaged, and there is therefore a need for animal welfare reasons to search and kill the animals if the damage is too great. The responsibility for the search is different depending on whether it is game or domestic. In the case of the search for elk, these municipalities are the responsibility under Section 48 of the Wildlife Act. At the same time, qualified staff from the Railway Agency must be involved in the search of animals along the railway track so that those carrying out the search can work under safe conditions. This is covered by the Railway Act. The railway station is aware that several municipalities are negative to cover the expenditure of the railway station safety officer in the course of the search. This cost is estimated by the Railway Agency to amount to a total of approx. 500000 SEK per year for all municipalities On the specific question, it is stated that the Railway Agency and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association have started work on finding a solution to the matter. The railway station is set to reach a good solution, together with the Local Governments’ Central Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1217	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which of course per. the current date did not provide a clear answer to what will happen in the future, but refers to negotiations and cooperation between the KS and the Railway Agency, where a good solution is set. It's positive. The reason why I raised this question is that some municipalities, such as Stor-Elvdal, has a large proportion of accidents between trains and elk and thus heavy expenditure and work related to the search and killing of game. It will be the case that this municipality is afraid that they will be paid to the railway station's security staff at an estimated approx. 100 000 kroner a year, of course varying with the number of accidents between trains and elk? One would think it would be natural for the municipality to cover its expenses and its railway works. According to a 2001 agreement, which is now under consideration, point 7 states that the Railway Agency and the Municipality cover their respective costs for medical personnel and material. That's how I want it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1226	I am aware, of course, that some municipalities are more heavily burdened than others in such a context. But it's related to the railway track going there. If you are so lucky or unhappy that there is also a lot of elk, it is of course that some municipalities will be hit more than others. When the Municipal Councils and the Railway Agency have now sat down to discuss this and to seek agreement on a cost recovery, I do not think that this is the basis for reaching a conclusion from the Department at that time. But I assume that we can all agree that it will not be a good solution I can advertise here, unless the railway works also contribute to a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1233	I particularly thank you for the last time, that the Railway Agency also knows its visit time and responsibility and does not impose its expenses on the municipality. I have raised this question before. It was almost exactly four years ago, on February 28, 2001, so this is not a new problem. But I am pleased with the last answer, that the Railway Agency is looking at its expenses. I understand positively that the Railway Agency is taking its expenses, and the municipality is taking its own, and then we're all happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1240	I can assure you that the Minister for Transport will follow up the matter, and that a decision will now be made much faster than when the questioner addressed this last time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1249	This question, too, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1252	‘In an article in Bergensavisen on 5 January, the price of the Ringveg West road project in Bergen continues to rise. An internal note to the Road Director shall show that the price of the first stage of construction of the project has increased from 1,010 to 1,048 million. kr. Nevertheless, in the contract for the project, the Road Director writes that the Road Directorate will return to cost estimates. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make the report on the Ringveg West public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1259	In the light of the question and the article to which the representative Lysbakken refers in his question, I assume that the representative asks for my assessment of whether a quality assurance report by Ringveg Vest, prepared by HolteProject, should be published. The Quality Assurance Report has been prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Transport and not by the Directorate of Roads. The report is based on the Ministry of Finance’s Framework Agreement on External Quality Assurance of Large State Investments, costing more than 500 million. kr. The current public transparency practice of such reports is that the reports are exempted from publication until the actual project has been submitted to the Stortinge to grant, including that the result of the quality assurance has been reported to the Stortinge. As a result, the report on the Ringveg West will be published as soon as the case has been brought before the Stortinget. As stated in the 2005 State Budget Review, the Ministry of Transport is proposing to return to Stortinget in the spring of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1266	I thank you for your answer. It has been found that the local press has also asked the Directorate of Roads to obtain insight into the estimates relating to price estimates. What is particularly true about this situation is that the Road Service itself has operated on a cost increase in an internal note, without the possibility to verify this either by press or by others. The problem is that the Ringveg West continues to be measured against another project, namely the urban railway in Bergen, where the quality assurance and impact assessment reports have been published. This makes the debate quite hopeless when you do not get access to these cost estimates for the ring road. The question is whether it is possible for the Ministry of Transport, at an earlier stage, to publish the information relevant to cost issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1275	Compared with the Bergen urban railway and the quality assurance there, there is a task done by the municipality of Bergen, which is the builder of the city railway, and the municipality of Bergen has chosen to publish that report, which they are free to do. The report referred to here will be published, and it will flow to the Storting in the spring. It is therefore wrong to claim that this is not public. It's going to be transparency. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport and the Vegvessen are in the process of assessing whether such quality reports are to be divided into two, with a part exempt from public disclosure on the grounds that they will have an influence in a tendering process. The publication of the Road Service’s negotiating strategy, which could be identified by such a report, could be cost-effective. But, as I said, the current report will be presented to the Stortinget, and I think it is reasonable that the Stortinget will first have it in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1282	I thank you again for the answer. I am also pleased that we will soon have access to these documents. At the same time, it is known that this case has been in the public domain for a long time. It's been a while since this report was completed, and some of the conclusions seem delicious and make it difficult to hold an informed debate on the future of the project. It also raises questions about whether road authorities have an agenda, including: in the case of road projects set up against the urban road. Therefore, it would be good for all parties in this case if the information had become public at an earlier date. The municipality of Bergen has therefore made a choice to publish its report. Of course, the department could have made that choice. While practice is followed here, an assessment of a previous publication could have been made, in particular of the figures relating to possible exceedances of costs, which are a central point of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1291	I can only stress that the practice followed here is the practice that has been followed in other cases as well, namely that such reports are exempted from public scrutiny until the project in question is submitted to the Enlargement for allocation. It is the practice that is followed here. But the Storting will get this presented and get the necessary transparency during the spring. The comparison with the urban railway in Bergen is wrong because it is a task carried out by the municipality of Bergen, which has a different practice. It does not go to Stortinget to get its approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1296	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1303	This question, which is from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Defence who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1306	I have a question which was raised to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, but which the Councils have decided to answer is to be answered by the Minister for Defence: ‘In the Fisheries Bulletin of 4 January this year, the head of the Coast Guard Quadron Nord claims that the lean coastguard budget will lead to far fewer patrol days of helicopter-cargo carrying vessels and thus fewer inspections. It is claimed that, among other things: will lead to poorer numbers and greater uncertainty about the Russian transhipment in the Barents Sea. Can the Council of State confirm that this is the case, or does the Council of State consider that, with the current financial framework, the Coast Guard can carry out the tasks as well as before?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1315	As Minister of Defence, I am very much concerned with the best possible use of available Coast Guard resources and the care of national tasks and international obligations in our marine areas. The Coast Guard budget has therefore grown significantly, from 601 million. SEK in 2001 to SEK 738 million. kr in 2005, i.e. a significant increase in the last four-year period. Last year, too, the Coast Guard budget has increased by 45 million. So the level in 2005 is clearly higher than in 2004. The Coast Guard Budget has increased every year since I became Minister of Defence. In the case of the seagoing fleet, production is planned to be maintained at about the same level as last year, in line with the Storting assumptions. For helicopter-bearing vessels, the Coast Guard, according to the 2005 General Inspector General of the Marine Defense Production Plan, estimates that the number of patrol days will be slightly increased compared to the previous one. According to this production plan, it is not correct that the helicopter carrying vessels are expected to operate in total less and thus carry out fewer checks than before. Let me stress this: it is not, however, that the number of patrol days alone determines the quality of its control and exercise. Equally important are the total resources made available, the material standard and not least the interaction between the Coast Guard and other military capabilities. In the case of resources, the Coast Guard has built up a flexible structure of several types of vessels. These have different sizes, manning, stamina, speed potential and capacities, and thus the tasks can be carried out in a more efficient way than before, adapted to the needs in question. As far as standard is concerned, the structure of the Coast Guard during conversion is inter alia: the phasing-in of a new contracted vessel, the bundling of an internal coastguard and security of use, the replacement of materials and the updating of air control radars. This will contribute to a better service. Nor is it the case that only the helicopter carrying vessels carry out checks. In general, other seagoing vessels carry out a very high number of inspections. For example, KV carried out “Tromsø”, which does not have helicopter, last year several inspections per. days of patrol than any of the helicopter carrying vessels. The control tasks of the Coast Guard cannot be seen separately from other activities. Good use of vessels depends on adequate information, overview and understanding of the control area. Several aids contribute to this, both helicopters, satellites, radars, automatic monitoring systems, reports from other vessels, etc. In this way, the Coast Guard knows where fishing is going and which control should be deployed. This increases the effectiveness of each patrol day and contributes to a better coastguard. Interaction with other capacities and technology deployment also means that Norway has the capacity for general surveillance, sovereignty and enforcement in the north and that this is increasing. In my opinion, today's coastguard is overall more efficient than before, supported by important surveillance and intelligence. Through the Government's annual priorities of the Coast Guard budget, I believe that sufficient resources are at hand, so that the tasks are properly and properly handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1341	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not quite satisfied with the way this question is answered. My purpose of the question was to know whether the responsible State Council for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is comfortable with a situation where professionals claim that the Coast Guard does not have the ability to control, for example. overfishing. An important part of the Coast Guard’s screening work is to carry out inspections on board Russian trawlers, including: checks and takes copies of the catch logbooks to see if they are proportionate to the catches. My question will then be: Does the Council of State, with the reductions and/or changes that the Council of State now has in its response, mean that this can be maintained at a level as high and good as we have so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1350	In my reply I informed that in the case of the seagoing coastguard fleet, production is planned to be maintained at the same level as last year, and that for the helicopter-carrying vessels, a slight increase is being made. That means that claims of far fewer patrol days for the outer coastguard, the seagoing fleet, are rejected in my answer. With regard to the opinions of professionals, I think we should pay particular attention to those professionals who are responsible for the Coast Guard and for its patrol and our presence in the north. I note that Jan Eirik Finseth, General Inspector of the Maritime Defense, says that as a result of the modernisation of the Coast Guard, we are getting a better and more effective monitoring of the marine areas. I note that the head of the Landsdelskommando Nord also says that he rejects statements in the media that budget cuts will lead to a reduction in the monitoring of the sea areas, especially of Russian fishing in the Barents Sea. These are two professionals responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1357	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to ask briefly about what has emerged in the media, is only media-generated, and about what has emerged, among other things. in the Fisheries Bulletin, in a comprehensive report on 4 January of this year, is entirely unfounded. When I, as a representative of big business, ask about these things, it's because I think such statements are serious, and I think we have a common task in clarifying whether they're media-made, or whether they're professionals' statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1364	I fully agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen. Clearly, when creating the impression that things are worse than they do, it is important for people who are concerned with safety along the coast and by fishing controls to get proper answers. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the questioner to the fact that both the Inspector General of the Maritime Defense, Kontreadmiral Jan Eirik Finseth, and the Head of the Landspartskommando Nord went out in the media with a separate article on 5 January, the day after this was published in the Fischeriblad, where they refuted the claims. I want to be of course helpful in distributing that article, while I have referred from parts of it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1373	My question is in the same street as that from the previous one. I perceived the answer as using the maximum capacity within the budget framework. I'm sure that's right. I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «The «Senja» Coast Guard ship is decommissioned from service 1 February of this year for budgetary reasons, according to the Coast Guard Chief [[NRK Troms and Finnmark 12 December 2004]] On this basis, will the Council of State allocate sufficient resources to the Coast Guard to avoid the withdrawal of KV “Senja”?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1384	I would first like to begin by saying that in my previous reply I made it clear that the Coast Guard has had a significant increase in resources in recent years, including the very last year, actually every year in the four-year period for which this Council of State has provided budgets. At the same time, I would like to say that the defence has as its clear objective the exclusive use of all four major helicopter-carrying coastguard vessels. However, there are several factors that have led the Coast Guard itself to recommend that it is necessary and appropriate to remove KV “Senja” from service from 1 February of this year. Firstly, today’s limited helicopter availability means that the number of patrol days has to be adapted to the existing capacity, which is six Lynx machines. As I pointed out in my previous reply, the Marine Defense Inspector General adds in his production plan that production is continuing at about the same level as last year. This is done to maintain a satisfactory level of control and to maintain the necessary competence pending new NH 90 helicopters. Secondly, economic considerations are important. The more each vessel sails, the less expenditure per year. patrol day. It is therefore cost-effective to use three vessels over four. The number of patrol days that can be produced within the adopted budgetary framework does not increase if these are distributed among several vessels. On the other hand, costs increase significantly, and that is what the Chief Coast Guard has stressed. The Chief Coast Guard reports that a helicopter carrying vessel without a helicopter on board costs about twice as much per. days of patrol, such as: KV “Tromsø” which does not have helicopter. Therefore, in relation to the Coast Guard’s fishing task, it would be rational to berth a helicopter carrying vessel and instead use released means to produce patrol days with other vessels. Thus, in relation to resource management and fisheries inspections, the entire coastal fleet of the sea should be considered in the context. The size has addressed the upgrading of helicopter-bearing vessels, both in the context of the examination of the last long-term proposal for the defence and the last harvest budget. In addition to the acquisition and installation of new air control radar, this includes adaptations to the new helicopter NH 90 and new radar also to the KV ‘Svalbard’. The update programme implies that for periods each vessel will be available for technical updates both this year and next year. The details of the timetable for this are set by the Defence Logistics Organisation. However, as stated in the previous reply, the Chief Coast Guard adds to a sailing programme where the number of patrol days this year is maintained at about the same level as the previous two years. Conversion requires priorities. In this case, the Chief Coast Guard, in consultation with the Chief Inspector-General of the Maritime Defence and Defence Officer, has found it both appropriate and proper to take the ‘Senja’ KV out of service in order to maintain a satisfactory level of control at an acceptable cost. During the period up to 2007, the Coast Guard will experience a quality improvement through the replacement of older vessel equipment and not least the upgrading of the helicopter-bearing vessels. This will help to extend the service life and enable vessels to operate the new NH 90 helicopter. As I pointed out in the previous answer, I believe that the Coast Guard through the update program and the material changes will be better, and that it will be better per. is currently able to carry out its activities in a good and sound manner within the resources at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1410	I thank you for your answer. It was probably a confirmation of what I said in the beginning, that within the framework you try to make full use of the capacity. But you have more capacity, it's clear. It was, among other things, Points out when the Commission concluded in its report on action to be taken against discards of fish. The Commission pointed out that the Coast Guard has an unused capacity of 335 patrol days, and recommended that the Coast Guard be provided with sufficient resources to make full use of the capacity. In the context of the budget, SV proposed to increase the Coast Guard framework by 100 million. kr. That is what we believe is necessary to take the responsibility of Norway as a coastal nation to safeguard the huge and important fishing resources we have in the Barents Sea. The cost of not doing so is so much, much greater than the cost of providing Coast Guard sufficient resources so that capacity can be fully exploited. I don't think we'll agree here. But for our part, we will come back to the matter because we believe that it is absolutely necessary to make full use of the capacity, and we do not do so when one of the ships is at berth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1419	I am very pleased that it has been possible to have a majority in the Storting in the last four years to increase the budget of the Coast Guard. That's what makes it possible for us to actually increase the quality of the control we carry out in our marine areas. It is correct that SV proposed to increase the budget of the Coast Guard isolated by 100 million. kr for 2005. But at the same time, SV proposed reducing the defence budget by NOK 3 billion. It is clear that when one sees these two sums in context, it would in fact be impossible within the whole of the defence policy of the SV and their budgets to do anything on the coastguard side as well. I say this because the Coast Guard is a priority. It's been prioritised by a large number of people. It has been prioritised by the majority who have secured a majority of the defence budgets. We have a responsible management for the Coast Guard who has now made clear both in the media and directly by letter to the Department that the Coast Guard's capacity is proportionate to the tasks, and it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1424	A short follow-up: When you increase the coastguard frame by 100 million. Of course, you can also increase the capacity, and it would not have been necessary to add one ship to the berth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1429	I think most things have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1434	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-19.ana.ud1887e1445	There is no record.
