ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e30	The majority is invited to adopt what we will call the criminal code – the penal code. For the first time in over a hundred years, the Stortinget has a great opportunity to take a thorough review, but also a political priority, of what should be important in terms of combating crime. As for the first, the technical review, I would like to commend the Government for the proposal, both in terms of how it is organised, and in terms of how the technical legal work is actually structured. I think we get a simpler penal code, and we get a criminal law that is also easier to use, both for actors and for those who had to be hit by it, whether you're a victim or a defendant. What, in the view of the Labour Party, nevertheless constitutes the lack of legal work and the lack of discussion that has taken place is that both the legal work, the content of the law proposed, and the debate that has been raised about it are marked by a lack of actual vision – in fact, a vision in relation to the fact that we are now facing three types of crisis in relation to criminal law. First of all, we detect too little crime. Much of the profitability, much of the economic crime, much of the integrity-impairing crime — such as drug addiction. raped - remain undiscovered in today's society. It's therefore quite uninteresting in the length of time just to talk about stricter penalties, when we know that, for example. over 90 pst. of the girls who are being raped today, no one ever experiences judgment at all. When it comes to the adoption of a new criminal law, we are therefore not excluded from the discussion: what is it that we should be able to discover and solve more crime, and what kind of crime is what we actually want to involve in the criminal justice system? That's the first and big challenge. The second is that we have an imbalance in the criminal justice chain that we've had to deal with in at least the last four years. The government has not been able to afford it. We've had a queue, a relatively large queue, compared to the courts. But we don't least have a big and persistent queue for those who're going into Norwegian prisons. This has been a politically crazy situation, in the sense that there have been actors in this house who have actually wanted to give priority to the reconciliation queue – perhaps at the expense of other parts of the criminal justice chain, but just to get the necessary balance to achieve. It is a challenge that should also give some signals as to how we behave when we are about to adopt a new penal code. What groups of people, what kind of crime is what we want to prioritize at a time when resources are actually scarce? What do we want to give priority to? How much punishment are we going to take out? And what are we going to use the resources for, with the scarcity of resources that we're facing? The last question the Labour Party is concerned about, at the latest at our national meeting this weekend, is: When the first reaction comes, and the place is there, whether it's prison, social punishment or what it might be, how well does the reaction work? In the view of the Workers' Party, we face major challenges in terms of the impact of the response measured. We can see that, for example. in terms of the number of drug users currently in prisons in Norway. 60-70 pst. of those in prison have significant drug problems. We're looking at the repetition rate, in the sense that over half is coming back. In the case of winning crimes and those with substance problems, repeat crime is probably 60-70 pst. When the reaction first comes, it's of such a nature that it actually doesn't work. It is precisely in these three areas, the question of discovering more crime, the question of correcting the imbalance and the question of getting action that actually helps, that the Workers' Party has had a great expectation of a new criminal law and a great expectation that the Government will take action on this matter right now. We feel that instead there has been a technical revision of the penal code with many good changes and corrections, but not a real and necessary reform to meet the challenges we are actually facing. I want to quote Eivind Findereng for 86 years, which in Dagbladet on Sunday stands out with both the picture and the name. He "defenses his assailant," it says. He was subjected to severe assault, threatened with hail, and he said the following about the perpetrator: ‘He should be put to work. Something he can thrive on. Then he can become a real guy. It will also benefit society.’ 86 years old he insists on throwing such a torch into a criminal policy debate that has largely concerned himself with a race about who is proposing the most severe prison reactions. The Labour Party does not say that the Finnrangen’s perpetrator should not be punished with imprisonment – until that is probably too gross an act. But the fact that a victim in such a situation can just think in the direction that he is doing, get him to become popularly ‘a real man’, that he should be put into work, should be a germ for all of us who are going to discuss the fight against crime and new criminal law, so that we also have to put forth effort to think differently to help both society and the victims who are subjected to crime, into a better time with less crime. We have great challenges. We know, as I said instead, that at least 60 pst. of those in Norwegian prisons have significant drug problems. 70 pst. were unemployed when they were imprisoned. Over 40 pst. has the upper secondary school as the highest completed education. 35 pst. of the prison clientele were homeless when they were inserted. It is estimated that nearly 40 pst. lives below a defined poverty limit. Many people have an increase that is clearly marked by serious problems, and many have been in contact with child protection before they reached the age of 16. More than half are probably struggling with chronic mental problems. That is why the Workers' Party, when it comes to setting up a new penal code, really takes quite a distance from the ideas that, among other things, are. The party of progress turns into figures for, where we're going to start to rub and multiply and make punishment and reaction to operations and not individual reactions. We see it as completely irrelevant to the challenges we are facing today, that for example. a 17-year-old who, for the third time, wanders into the cellar of his neighbour, shall, if we are to follow the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 12 on punishment, get six years of imprisonment. It's inappropriate! And it's not just an inappropriate response to a 17-year-old, but it's also a waste of society's resources. And it is to a large extent not in accordance with people's sense of justice, at least not if you ask the Progress Party's own laymen in the District Courts around. In fact, those who meet both those who commit crime and those who are victims of crime often have a much more nuanced view of the type of reaction, such as that. Eivind Findereng is an expression in the Sunday newspaper. This is why the Labour Party believes that, in setting up a new penal code, we should take a number of main steps, including: by serving punishment in a different way from what we actually do today. With regard to the question of children and young people, I am pleased that the Committee is very much on the way to those ideas that, among other things, are: The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have stated that we should not be allowed to follow the objectives fully. But in the case of children and young people, it must be clear in this millennium that prison sentences are largely inappropriate. It actually contributes to more crime. There we are categorical. We're trying to tighten up on the possibility of arrest and imprisonment. We say clearly from the point of view of the criminal framework. We say clearly in the question of the detention of people under 18, we say clearly that this is an area in which we believe it is much more appropriate not only for the offenders, but also for any victims, to use alternative responses. We don't want to think about the template and the multiplication tables. We also don't believe, as the Progress Party does, that winning crime in the homes should be solved and combated with more knives, balts and firearms, as they actually advocate in the setting. The second area where we want a reform, and where we wait, is about drugs. It is obvious that a debate on crime and punishment invites us primarily to think about what kind of reaction we are going to have to deal with offenders who have a significant drug problem. But it should also invite us to have in mind that in this field we are all responsible for prevention. For me and the Labour Party, it has always been a paradox that the most intense crime fighters, especially in the Progress Party, may be the first to tear down preventive work in the drug field. But now the time for action is ripe for a different response to those who have drug problems and are now being put into Norwegian prisons. We are waiting for the Government in relation to a judge-led programme, in relation to a different response to drug addicts, and time is more than ripe! This is what we should have had in connection with a new penal code. The last field in which we want to have a clearer speech than what we feel we're getting from the Government, and from the government parties in the Storting, is on the issue of the penalty level. The Labour Party proposed to increase the minimum penalty for both intentional killing and gross rape. The fact that you want to raise it by one or two years is not a deep mistrust of Norwegian courts, we've hurt to see that, but it's a clear signal. We would have thought that the Christian People's Party, which has criticized the courts quite vigorously not to listen to the usual political signals, would actually now be involved in giving, by giving us support in this field. We believe that much of the legal work done in the past has been implemented in Norwegian courts. That is why the level of penalties for rape has almost doubled. We think we have to move on. A strong signal here is the minimum penalty proposal from the Labour Party, where I regret that we are only receiving support from the Progress Party. That is why this penal code that is now to be adopted is an invitation to think smarter, not only more stringent in any context, but to be able to outsource punishment where we actually feel it is most important. From the Labour Party, we have said that the time has come to slow down the use of prison sentences for people with drug problems, for those who are the youngest of us, and to tighten up in relation to those who commit serious privacy violations, such as those who have drug problems. killed and raped. It's about having two thoughts in your head at once, and it's absolutely necessary if we're going to be able to reduce Norwegian crime. 86-year-old Eivind Findreng said it really very smart in the newspaper on Sunday: "I think we should forgive each other and give people a chance. But for hard-boiled criminals who have been in prison for many years, there is no other way out." Souls, when they are so severely hit by a criminal act that they have become, are still able to see that there are two thoughts in their heads at once and react in different ways to different actions and criminals. It's important to bring it with you. I refer to the proposals where the Workers' Party is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e74	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e79	The representative of Storberget had a fine introduction with a focus on the historical aspects of the matter we are now dealing with. Unfortunately, the representative became involved in a budget debate. It is a pity that he uses the possibilities in this important matter to talk about budget. It seems obvious to the right that the Workers' Party is opening up to community sanctions in response to serious violent crimes and moral crimes. I think it bears witness to a total lack of understanding as to what damage the attackers are doing to the victims. The problem with the Workers' Party is that they have difficulty deciding whether they want to be tough or soft in terms of criminal policy. At another point in the suspension, the Workers' Party is going in to raise the level of minimum penalties for serious rape and murder. This is probably an example of an inconsistent criminal policy on the part of the Workers' Party. That is why I have to ask the representative of Storberget: is it such that the Labour Party's zeal for minimum penalties is a sign that they do not believe the courts take the legislator's signal seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e88	We just want to send a signal to the courts that we believe that the level of penalties for rape is too low. We do that with our proposal, and we expect it to be taken as seriously as it was when, a few years ago, minimum penalties were passed and criminalised, among other things. Negligible rape. Then the representative says that it is difficult to decide whether you want to be tough or mild. It should not be that you have to be either tough or mild. I would like to say, as a Minister of Justice has said several times, that one should be tough on the tough – and probably mild on the mild! It's not necessary to decide, I've learned. When it comes to the issue of moral crimes and social penalties, I would say: Norway is responding with conditional punishment to younger offenders, 15 to 16-year-olds, who commit moral crimes — that is, no response. The Supreme Court passed a judgment, among other things, on 15 December last year, against a 26-year-old who had committed a moral crime. He got conditional. Does the Right really think that it's better that he didn't get any response than that in that case he might be able to get community punishment combined with treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e97	It is always interesting to listen to the representative Storberget when he pulls himself and the Labour Party's judicial policy to the great heights. When a certain man speaks, we shall others listen sympathetically, but with a few reservations I assume. It has at least I learned to do. Since the representative was concerned that one had to be visionary and could have a broad pattern of action, it would have been interesting to hear where it is in the proposal from the Workers' Party. I do not see anything particularly new constructive on the part of the Workers' Party. It's okay that they take up some of the things that the Penitentiary Commission came with, but I don't see anything special that's sucked by the Labour Party's own breast. But I expect that the representative Storberget will be able to clarify this in a straightforward and curative way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e104	I'll say it twice, so that the representative from the Progress Party gets it along. I know that when it comes to fighting crime, you have the ability to think only one instrument: more severe punishments. I spent a lot of my post on just saying that now we could take the big grip on children and young people, get them out of Norwegian prisons and react differently. There are several proposals relating to children and young people and the limitations on the possibilities of using both police coercive measures, prison-like measures and conservation, in relation to children and young people. And then the question is also now to make a grip on the drug. I think it would be groundbreaking in Norwegian criminal law if you could offer a different offer to all the thousands of prisoners who actually have drug problems. It will be a major reform. The third is, of course, that we are now making a real assessment of what we want to punish more stringently, and what we want to relax. I think that's an honest thing. I also see this as simple and constructive proposals, which show that we actually have a vision of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e113	The representative of Storberget started his post with a red and liberal mention of the work we have been doing on the Stortinget, but then he more or less traces of it in total, and ends up with some sort of budget line-up where he addresses a number of shortcomings in the political leadership of today's Norway. I want to return to this with penalties and minimum penalties. I still feel that the representative Storberget does not trust that the courts follow up clear leadership from Stortinget, and he has therefore proposed to lift the minimum penalty. He also says that the time has come to think smarter, and then how should an increase in the minimum sentence of up to 10 years increase the use of the overall penalty framework for rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e120	I read both in newspapers and in the budget setting that the Christian People's Party has been very skeptical to the courts. The Labour Party has tried to express the opposite, that we have actually trusted the courts, and that we believe that the courts have been responsive. I'm saying this for the second time. In the case of rape, we believe that the courts have listened and, among other things, almost doubled the level of penalties in recent years. So we think that that's not enough. We believe that further signals are needed in relation to the courts. The clearest signal we think we can give is to raise the minimum penalty for serious rapes from two to three years. It is clear that it will have an impact on the level of penalties all the time now between two and three years. I believe that it is really a political signal that is clear, which has been dealt with in its entirety and put into a context when a whole new penal code is adopted, that is exactly it. And that's what I think the courts are asking when one says that one doesn't listen to budget comments and likes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e127	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e130	Today's debate is historic. For the first time since the Penal Code was passed in 1902, we have a comprehensive review of a new penal code on the table. The law has, of course, been amended a hundred times since 1902, but this is the first occasion for a comprehensive review of the principles underlying the measurement of penalties in this country. In Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003-2004 the Government has proposed a new general part of the penal code. The special proposal, which deals with the specific criminal offences and penalties for them, will come later. Now it may seem that someone has taken this matter a little bit ahead of time, but we are going to have a full opportunity to go through each and every paragraph and the penalty framework attached to it. The matter is very comprehensive and contains several elements of principle. An important objective of the new law is to make it simpler and more transparent for users. With regard to the Right interventions in this debate, we divide them by three. Because there are so many topics here, we choose to use three different posts to illuminate them, but we could have had many more debaters with to shed light on all the important principles that are being addressed in this matter. Taking a decision on what to criminalise and setting guidelines on how strictly to respond is a central political task. This proposal provides for a broad review of various fundamental issues which will also have an impact on the design of the specific part of criminal law. Social conditions have changed considerably in 100 years. The question of what is harmful and which should be dealt with by penalties in accordance with the so-called harm-reduction principle is, to a large extent, a matter of value. The Committee has adhered to the considerations put forward by the Penal Court and the Ministry, namely that penalties should be applied where other penalties are not or are not sufficient. The new penal code will ensure that criminal law provides society and individual effective protection, in particular against serious crime, such as serious attacks on life, sexual integrity and the rule of law, as well as repeated and organised crime. The government is in favour of 30 years of punishment for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Two important factors argue for this: firstly, these offences are extra punishable because they attack the very foundations of a civilised and humane society. Secondly, such crimes fall within the scope of the International Criminal Court, which Norway has been an active driver to achieve. If such crimes could not be punished so strictly in Norway, and such a case came up here, there is a danger that the Norwegian judicial system would be considered inadequate, so that the International Criminal Court would have to take over the prosecution and request the offender to be extradited. Such a result would be unlucky, because each country has a primary responsibility to pursue such actions itself. Proposals for 30 years of punishment for such crimes also received broad support during the hearing, and I am pleased that the committee has joined this. The majority, all except SV, also believe that the most serious terrorist acts should have a penalty framework of up to 30 years, and ask the Government to come back to this. Another important principle that is established is that 21 years of imprisonment for murder should be a real prison sentence. That means that we're tightening up the rules for parole, and that it's going to be a real 21-year-old settlement. Another topic that has been debated and that has been up today is the minimum penalties. It's just that, over the 103 years of criminal law, there's been a constant commitment to outlawing new minimum penalties, so now we're up to 39. The government proposes to reduce this to six different minimum penalties, and there are rapes, gross sexual assaults against children, murders, murders, serious drug crimes and serious attacks on the servants of the judiciary. It's going to be exciting to see how many minimum penalties the Stortinge has adopted in the year 2108 when the new law has worked for as long as today's law. I hope it's not going to be as many as today's 39 minimum penalties. The Labour Party and the Advance Party form a somewhat unexpected constellation when they go in to raise the minimum penalty in murder cases and rape cases. The parties to the government believe that this is an expression of a distrust that the courts take into account the will of the legislator and will therefore not support the proposal at this time. But we will make it clear that it is necessary to follow developments closely, and we will give a clear signal to the courts that developments in the level of penalties are being followed closely. If it turns out that the level of penalties remains unchanged, we ask the Ministry to promote proposals for the introduction of minimum penalties in the context of a new special section, because there is no doubt that there is a broad majority in this case who believe that the level of penalties in, for example: cases of rape are too low. It is not the penal framework that we are attacking, but the low level of punishment that is measured in rape cases. Here the courts must apply the whole scale and not be as low as today. Today, we are making a historic decision. The Criminal Code of 1902 is replaced by the Criminal Code of 2005, a law adapted to our time, our principles and our legal status.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e160	I would like to take this opportunity to give the Right and Government parties some credit for the slaughtering of the minimum penalties that have now been carried out. It will also fully support the Workers' Party, and we have discussed that before. But the question is, when you keep a few minimum penalties, and we know that it has been said from all parties in this house that the level of punishment in terms of violence, rape and killing is too low, what really is the reason why the Right cannot support that proposal – when you first have to have the minimum punishment? It cannot be that two years' minimum sentence, as it is today for rape, is a sign of trust in the courts, while three years' minimum sentence is a sign of distrust, as the Right's representative now said. So my question is really: isn't there a good chance now for the Right to mark its value-conservative position and tighten the penalties in these two important areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e165	The representative of Storberget never ceases to amaze you. From this period of being a member of a lower sentence, more community punishment, less prison, more humane treatment, etc., he has now switched to a new record, namely increased minimum penalties. I've said that in my post, and I repeat it, we're going to have a special part of the penal code, which is to be treated. It is possible that Storberget did not have time to wait for it – pending the election – but when that is said, we in the government parties will behave to now send a clear signal. The Supreme Court, among other things, has asked for it in meeting with us and said that if we have clear signals to the courts, it should be promoted through the legislative work relating to the individual case. And so this is the single thing – it's a big thing, it's the penal code. We're coming back to the special part. If the courts have not followed up then, Storberget can be sure that the Right will propose increased minimum penalties in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e170	It was interesting to hear the chairperson of the Committee and the High Representative of Greece explain the views of the Right in this matter. In the past, the right has at least been known to be reasonably tough and clear, or to say as the Minister of Justice: hard to the hard and mild to the mild and soft to the soft. But now I think they have partly failed here. What's interesting is that the Justice Committee has long pointed this out with repeat crime and the role of the victim, and in view of that, I'm surprised that the Right does not want every criminal act to be punished individually. That's what I think is fundamentally interesting in this. I could imagine hearing from the representative of Greece about what is the reason why the Right does not want every criminal act to be punished individually, but that those who commit crime on a large scale should actually have some sort of discount.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e175	It is interesting to listen to the representative Ellingsen, who has contributed very positively to this law coming into port. I would also like to give that honor to the other parties, because it is a great support for the government's principles and attitudes that emerge here. The representative of Ellingen will then use the small, or large, multiplication table to determine punishment, but we have a more holistic and thoughtful view of the fight against crime, where also bringing people back to society, where breaking the spiral by getting people back into normal business and not criminal activity, is an important element, and therefore we do not want a multiplier that automatically determines the level of punishment. We want – and here I am very much in agreement with Ellingen – stricter penalties for re-entry criminals. We have also contributed to this during this period through other legislative processes in this majority. So Ellingen can be safe: right is tough on those tough ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e180	I have a question for the Right, because as a resident of Norway, I am very concerned that whoever gets out of prison is being followed up – it is, after all, possible that he ends up being my new neighbor, as I do not live in one of the most fable strokes in Oslo. It is estimated to prevent parole for those sentenced to 21 years in prison and thus the possibility of a gradual return to freedom under different conditions and with follow-up requirements. I am concerned with the following: how shall the Right ensure the follow-up of this group, so that we do not release ticking bombs right out into the street? How is post-protection to be ensured? How will the Right ensure that prisons do not become much tougher in the future when less good behaviour is given? I find it strange that the majority has not addressed these issues when one now agrees with such dramatic changes by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e185	There are important issues that the representative Thorkildsen raises. It was now mentioned by both Holstad and Hofstad instead that this is not a general budget debate on all aspects of the fight against crime and rehabilitation – this is the criminal law, in general. The representative of Thorkildsen will be sure that the government and government parties are actively working to improve post-protection, to improve the return to society, and we will come back to it in other matters. But it is not that the general part of the criminal law should solve all the challenges we face; the general part of the criminal law should be based on principles on how punishment is to be imposed here in the country. We have done that, and we largely agree on that in the committee. I'm glad. Then the representative of Thorkildsen can be sure that we will also address the issues she is dealing with. We've already done that, and we'll continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e192	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e195	This has been, and is, a very interesting debate, and it has been an interesting day. It is, as others have been in the past, a historic event in relation to the fact that we are going to adopt a new penal code. The one we've had to now, as I said, is over a hundred years old, and it's probably time we reviewed it, even though it's been tampering with some parts there. In other words, it's our first, real criminal law. Then it's probably also that the penal code is one of the cornerstones of our democracy. It draws up a number of clear lines of distinction between the criminal responses to different crimes committed and the political processes that take place in the United Kingdom, some of them about values and attitudes. In this sense, this is undoubtedly one of the most important things we have, and the law is one of the most important in terms of fundamental values in our society. Perhaps one of the best things about this is that the committee has reached a high level of consensus. Of course, it's shades. There are nuances where the Progress Party stands alone, there are nuances where SV stands alone, and there are other parties that give its peculiar vision. Of course you have to, because this is a political process. But the strength of the discussion is that the committee agrees on very, very much. At my discretion, it provides a very good foundation for the job that has been done. It says something about the process the committee has stood for, and the value of the law that is now being presented. Then, of course, you can also ask yourself: what is, politically, the goal of the penal code? At my discretion, it is clearly a political manifesto in relation to how the individual parties want the criminal regime to be. Since no one here has a clear majority, there must be some compromises to achieve majority voting. It's also a clear law-making tool. I guess it's important that you have a large width of it in this way. There have already been some line changes that have been about hanging out one or the other from different parts as one side. I don't see the committee as one-sided. I perceive that there is a very large degree of diversity in criminal responses within the law. Since the various criminal acts have such a diversity in themselves, reaction forms must be equally wide. At the same time, it is beyond doubt that criminal law is a tool for correcting behaviour and combating crime. In it, of course, it's also a signal to those who consider committing crime, what kind of risk they're exposed to. The question is, is the result of what we're doing today, deterrent? Will one get a reaction out among the criminals? Yes, perhaps with someone, with others not at all – I am reasonably sure of that. But nevertheless, this is not to a small extent for the job that Stortinget has done. In that way, I'm happy with what we're doing. Another thing we're doing here is going up a line between what we consider morally reprehensible and in that way unacceptable and up against the punitive. It is also an important and fundamental debate in a good and open democracy like ours. There are many things you don't like, but you shouldn't be criminal because of life views, antipathies or other conditions that color each one of them. For the Progress Party, it's a moment that I'm glad we've brought here, and it's the victim's role in relation to what's going on in terms of punishment and punishment. We believe that too little attention has been paid to how victims of crime have been treated, both through criminal investigations and by other regulations around being victims. There we have to do a better job. For the Progress Party, it is important that we focus on this to a large extent. Another thing I'm glad that the committee has been involved is the relationship between people who are mentally ill and committed crime. This is an area in which the Committee and individuals in the Committee have been focusing for a long time, including: is addressed in the Questionnaire as a question to the Minister of Justice more than once. I still don't think we've come far enough. The reason why this is important is that sick people should not be in prison. That's not where they belong. Here, at my discretion, the Council of State has a specific responsibility with the rest of the members of the government to find good solutions that care for individuals who commit these acts, society's need for security, and not least the relatives, whom I think sometimes it is very difficult. Another important point is that we now make clear the role of the Grand Duchy as legislator, and not least the relationship between legislator and court. There is no doubt that the majority, at least in the Judicial Committee, has pointed out that sometimes it is felt that the courts do not take in much of what the legislator wants and gives notice of. The majority of the Committee has made its views clear and is expected to follow it up. So maybe you can turn this around and say, what about the court's view of the legislator? It's supposed to be independence, but how great is independence? Should the courts be able to do whatever they want, regardless of signals from the legislator, or should the legislator expect it to be followed up loyally? For our part, we clearly expect the courts to deal with the criminal framework that the legislator draws up, regardless of whether they agree or disagree with it. So a little bit about punishment. In what we call punishment, we have a wide range of different measures. Of course, the aim should be to correct a behaviour and restore a condition to which a victim is exposed, as far as possible. At first, I realized that there is a wide range of opportunities and opportunities within what is called punishment – that is what it should be, and that must be – from the most extreme, such as putting people into prison, to having other types of punishment like community punishment, open acquittal, different program actions, such as. the pro-mille programme, and what the Committee has now said is that the Government wants to look further at, the possibility of creating a programme for young speed offenders in relation to major infringements of speed. For it may be that there are other measures that are as good as prison. The lack of response is what is the strength of our penal code. In terms of punishment, it is that in some specific areas, the government proposes to set the penalty framework to 30 years. The Progress Party wants to lift it from 21 to 30 years for the most serious criminal acts. The reason for this is that we believe that the punishment and punishment framework are too low today and that it should be raised to 30 years. Minimum penalties are also a theme that has been discussed here, and they continue in a number of areas. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to propose a minimum penalty for violence against public officials. In a climate that is becoming tougher and tougher, among others. outside this house, we have to show that we give the people on the first line, i.e. the police, the necessary security. Then, among other things, we must: have a law to protect them in relation to the task they are to perform. We might have wanted and expected more people to join in, but we register that we are there alone. We also want progressive and cumulative penalties, because we think it's a little strange to give to those who commit professional crime, special schemes and discounts that no one else gets. It's a system that we don't want. Of course, it has to be uplimited to the maximum sentence of 30 years. With regard to parole, we are sceptical about some of the regulations that lie there today, and we want to tighten it up by linking it up to the penal framework and the gravity of the crime that has been committed. Then I have to be allowed to point out that on an incursion there has been a minor error in the setting under item 27.2.2, in the comment from us. It says that we will vote against the proposal for Section 96 on the limitation of sentence sentences. It has to state Section 93, to be embarrassingly correct, as I have understood. With that I take up the suggestions from us that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e227	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The error referred to by the representative will be taken into account. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e234	It is very positive that there is such a large cross-political majority in this house for alternative criminal reactions. It has been an important matter for the work of this Judicial Committee that it has been possible to agree on it. I hear what the representative of the Progress Party now says about social punishment and other reactions. These are responses that actually work and that help reduce crime! My question is: what is the reason why the Progress Party in this round actually wants to limit the use of social sanctions, as opposed to the other majority? To the extent that one can answer within one minute, my second question is: is it lucky, with such a progressive and cumulative penalty rule as the Progress Party now suggests, that a 17-year-old who commits burglaries in the neighbor's basement three times is to be sentenced to six years' imprisonment? Is it, in the opinion of the Progress Party, an appropriate and proper use of the resources of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e244	The Progress Party supports the use of community sanctions in given contexts, while at the same time being quite clear on where we don't want to have it. To the representative of Storberget's last question, whether he is the one who is breaking into the neighborhood for the third time: I don't really think he should do that! That's kind of what's going on here. I see no reason that when you do it once, a second time, and a third time, you have to be treated in a mild way. Then, at my discretion, you have shown an attitude that I think you should do something about, not do the opposite. One must always focus on the criminals. But now I and the representative of Storberget have discussed the attitude, who is the best friend of the criminals, and who is not, so I will leave it. With regard to the criticism of community punishment, it is clear that we have reacted to matters where the armed forces have been committed and where the community has been punished. There have also been sexual abuses where social penalties have been imposed. We don't think that's consistent with what's legal and in line with people's perception of justice. That is why we want to tighten up the use of community sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e253	The Progress Party wants to establish youth prisons. Right do not want own prisons for the youngest offenders. Moving children and young people far away from family and the community in order to zone in their own juvenile prisons will also include: reducing the possibility of rehabilitation, starting a new start to life. Isn't the Progress Party in Rehabilitation? How does the Progress Party assess the values that are just about to be returned to its home, to the family and to the community, and that are important factors in a rehabilitation scheme? There are a few places that would be relevant on a national basis for what the Progress Party proposes, its own juvenile prisons. Our country is a long way off, and that's the way that most people would be far from home in comparison to the piece of rehabilitation. In conclusion, I must say that it is the Phantom who says ‘hard against the hard and soft against the soft’ – but I think the Minister of Justice is well aware of that. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e264	In that case, I may have to say that in this Chamber the Minister of Justice is treated in the same way as the Phantom [[muttering in the hall]] Back to the question: For the Progress Party, we have no absolute no or yes requirements for things. If it's the case that we end up in a situation where juvenile prisons will be decent, it'll have to be an opening for it. It is a paradox for me that the representative from the Right is so concerned about this. We have also said that you should not have young first-time criminals as sons with professional criminals. We've seen headlines in the papers this spring that pro-mille-dominated young people son together with people convicted of genocide. I don't think there's anything much better in that way. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, I believe that the Right does not go any further than us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e273	In several areas, the Progress Party recalls the American Republican Party, and one of the areas I think the seas expressed in the reply to the representative of Storberget. In relation to private-run prisons, they also have a very American attitude. But it is another field that testifies to a quite American attitude about how to deal with criminal policy: «My freedom stops where yours begins» is a good starting point for criminalisation, writes the Progress Party. As an example of what the party believes to be law, Tony Blair is quoted: – Do not be in any doubt: You are entitled to defend yourself. It is only in the most extreme circumstances that someone will be sued for attacking or killing a thief in their own home. This is simply a frightening reading. I have to ask the representative Ellingsen the following: When was the right to life subordinated to the freedom from invasion of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e284	I thank you for the challenge of the representative from SV. It merges into the sequence of what usually comes from SV. SV has a one-sided focus on understanding the criminals, and that's the only gratifying thing here. So, of course, you have to criticize us for doing things that SV doesn't appreciate. But that's the way it is, it's the policy of this. For us, it's about doing some things that others don't dare do. We've done that before, and we're going to keep doing that. Then those who want it will continue to focus on the woes of the criminals and well, and then we'll get others to think about how the victims are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e291	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e294	First, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the fact that he has managed to resolve this extensive matter through a relatively pressured committee. So to the content. SV adheres to the main principles of the use of penalties outlined in the proposition. We believe, like the rest of the committee, that there is reason to show restraint with this tool. At the same time, we see that the use of prison sentences is widespread in our society. Prisons are more crowded than for a very long time, and despite thorough evidence that prisons are often more harmful than beneficial. In fact, there is often a community of interests between those who commit crime and society, and not as Ellingsen's representative used to make it, that there are direct contradictions of interest all the time. That's why it might be as much as 70 pst. repeaters in this system. SV believes it is particularly important to avoid prison sentences when young offenders and first-time criminals are convicted, while we are critical that rape, domestic violence and child abuse have in many cases been met with too mild responses. We are therefore pleased that we have joined the Committee in assessing our own penal order for violence in close relations and that we have been given the opportunity to consider making the use of violence where children are witnesses. SV acknowledges the need to protect society from some people. However, many of those currently in closed prisons should be offered alternative responses. As a society, we would also be worthy of this. Examples of prisoners who should have had much more alternative offers are drug addicts, mentally ill and people with debilitating conditions. The latter group we want the court to have a discretionary remedy, but then on condition that we clarify the responsibility for them, so that we do not end up not reacting at all. SV is also concerned that we need to use open atoning for a lot more. This is much less harmful than closed prisons, in addition, it is much cheaper — and there are very few escapes and avoidances. We therefore believe that it should be a general rule that if you are not more dangerous than that you can be put in queues, you should be able to be put directly into open atoning. SV supports if you want to remove most minimum penalties. At the same time, we are in doubt, and assuming that there is no contagion in the rest of the penal scale, support the extension to 30 years of prison for three very special types of crimes: crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide. This is justified by international harmonisation and legal unity, so as not to be able to speculate on differences between countries. For SV, it is essential to ensure victims of serious crime. We have worked for a long time for comprehensive care for victims and relatives, and have fought for rape receptions, crisis centres, incest centers and for the victims to be heard. We do not believe that the only answer victims can accept for crime is ever more severe punishments. But we think it is all the more important that their suffering is not overlooked – that the perpetrator is understood and excused, while they themselves are not helped to cope with life. SV is for party rights. Of course, the length of the punishment may also be important, but sometimes someone may need to meet the perpetrator, confront him/her and get answers to questions, things they wonder about. In fact, sometimes the legal case itself seems against its purpose – the fronts are sharpened, and there are few concessions. The toughest thing about a victim can sometimes be that the perpetrator refuses to admit guilt. So this is not as simple as the Progress Party wants it to be. Neither has it been given that prison is always the most stringent instrument we have, but it is consistently produced in that way. That's what we think is sin, because it covers the fact that what really requires something from a human being is when there's a demand to do something active to change. For SV, it is also a primary objective to prevent new victims. Then the system should be changed, so that we get a break in the repeater pattern that has taken place in the Norwegian criminal court. In some cases, we think it might be right to use community sanctions in the event of serious crimes, such as drug abuse. crimes of violence or morality, but then in cases involving young offenders. We believe that in such cases it is necessary to consider whether the likelihood of change is greater with such a form of reaction than with prison sentences and that some form of treatment is included as part of the sentence. This will, for example: could be relevant if the offender is in a positive process that will be re-established by the use of unconditional imprisonment. If the goal is to avoid new victims, we're going to have to take some unpopular positions. SV will warn against a trend towards releasing more densely up to full-time settlement. This will mean less follow-up of the individual, and it will deprive us of the benefits of gradually giving people freedom back under conditions. On the SV side, we think this could lead to more dangerous people, tougher prison conditions, more repeaters in the system and even more victims. However, we have a great deal of understanding that many, especially victims and relatives, react to the fact that the full length of the punishment is not to be automatically curtailed, but we believe it is important for the security of society that the return to freedom is gradually and controlled, with a trial period with close follow-up at the end. The released person often needs much assistance after a long institutional stay that may have deprived him/her of both network and social competence. It is in the interests of society that prisoners are not directly or indirectly released from a closed prison. However, we believe that the courts must actively consider the use of what is now a ban on contact in criminal law, and here I would like to praise the Council of State for taking this initiative. In this way, victims and survivors may refrain from meeting the perpetrator after termination or leave. It is also necessary to improve the quality of the assessments relating to both leave and leave to probation, and the follow-up to release needs to be strengthened considerably. Unfortunately, post-war protection is a black chapter in Norwegian criminal policy. SV believes it is completely insane that prisoners who are released in full time from custody are not entitled to some kind of follow-up and post-protection. We're pleased to have had an impact so that this is now to be reviewed by the ministry. One of the most critical aspects of today’s prison system is that so few people are offered treatment and help for their drug dependence while making their punishments. At least 60 pst. prisoners have extensive drug problems, but only between 5 and 10 pst. of which they are offered assistance during the period of atonement. §12-sonance in an institution must become an option most people consider in relation to. SV also wants to expand Stiffinder’s offer and assess the possibility of establishing ‘mini-stifiners’ around the country, where prisoners with short sentences can also start drug treatment while they are in prison. Stiffinder Junior needs to be strengthened, especially in terms of resources and multidisciplinary competence. A little about children and young people in the end. We believe that there are too many children who today are not caught by the public, and who eventually end up in prison because no one took responsibility. It is not enough to build up alternatives to prisons and to follow up on the Storting's own goal of using prison to a lesser extent to children and young people. This is why the Children's Ombudsman has taken initiatives that we really shouldn't be proud of. The Children's Ombudsman is very critical that we have done nothing more to build up alternatives to prisons. SV and the Labour Party take the consequences of Storting’s own target formulations from the time the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was signed, and we therefore propose restrictions in the law on the use of prison against children under 18. In addition, we are in favour of increased use of community and conflict advice, youth contracts and the investigation of alternative institutions that can act as guardian surrogates or §12 institutions for young people. We believe that the law must be clarified in view of who is responsible when children commit criminal acts. Children must be given more rights in terms of treatment and assistance, and overall efforts must be made to address children with problems. Preventing privatisation and outsourcing is good because it prevents continuity, long-termity and holisticity. SV will change several of the professional training courses, so that developmental psychology, knowledge of violence and assault, witness psychology, etc. become central to the education and training of those who are to work with children. SV believes that it is a goal in the long term to break with the criminal detainee as we know it today, and instead provide a larger range of instruments for children and young people under 18 years of age, so that the reactions are more adapted to the international obligations we actually have. Today, the distinction between a 14-year-old and a 15-year-old is too sharp. Many children who commit criminal acts experience that there are no reactions. This applies in particular if they are under 15 years of age. The paradox is that many eventually end up in prison, because this is the only thing we can do to 'courage' them. SV believes that this is unsustainable. We had hoped that the government parties, and especially the Christian People's Party, who tend to mark themselves as a very family-friendly and child-friendly party, had taken these challenges more inwardly and taken into account the warnings that, among other things. The Children's Ombudsman has gone out in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e344	You could say a lot about the contributions of the representative Thorkildsen, but the commitment to fighting for what she stands for, no one can take away from her. That's a good thing. What I could still imagine asking the representative, Thorkildsen, is the reason not to be involved in an increase in the minimum penalty in the case of gross rape. Here the representative says, among other things, Thorkildsen. the fear that an increase in the minimum penalty to something which is initially a more acceptable level may have unexpected consequences such as the acquittal of several. Does that mean that the representative of Thorkildsen believes that the court, if it finds clear evidence against a person on the basis of the penalty, will acquit him? Is that the issue of the representative of Thorkildsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e351	I wish the Progress Party had spent the same amount of energy on the execution of those who are being raped, as they use to try to raise the level of punishment. From the SV's point of view, however, it is in the case of rape that we are able to have two thoughts in our head at once. We want both the custody of those who have been raped, and are working very actively for it, and we want to raise the level of punishment, because it is felt as terribly unfair that something so degrading, such a terrible crime, can be punished as mildly as it has sometimes been. It has also been an expression of a view of women who are totally unsustainable in our society. The reason why we do not agree with the proposal of the Progress Party and the Labour Party is that we fear that it may have consequences that we are not served and that at least the victim of the rape is not served. This may include, inter alia: End up being convicted of grossly negligent rape rather than rape, because it is seen in the specific case that it would be grossly unfair to have a level of punishment where the minimum penalty is imposed. There is quite a broad consensus in the Storting that there is a real opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e361	SV is moving towards a 30-year penalty framework for serious acts of terrorism. This means that an event similar to that in New York on 11 September 2001 would have resulted in a formal maximum sentence of 21 years in prison, with a real payback of 14 years. You could ask yourself, is this fair? Is it in relation to the cruel act that has been committed? Does the SV want Norway to be a paradise for terrorists?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e366	I doubt that the representative Holstad is expecting an answer to that particular question. Obviously, we don't think Norway should be a paradise for terrorists, and the most important thing we can do is probably go after the cash flows and try to get something done to prevent tax havens, etc. The reason why we haven't wanted a 30-year penalty framework for acts of terrorism is simply the difficulty of defining what acts of terrorism are, and getting a break from them, also human rights. Amnesty was out warning us very strongly when we adopted the new provisions on terror, and was just concerned that we adopted a politicized provision that could be misused internationally. We have to see this in an international perspective. So it's not about it at all, but it's just a consequence that we used to go against defining terror, because it was hard to define. But we believe that if we get into a situation where you get serious acts of terrorism directed at Norway, and the result will be that very many human lives are lost, you can be judged for crimes against humanity and so on for 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e375	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e378	The centre party is not represented in the Judicial Committee and has therefore not had the opportunity to go into depth with regard to the committee's consideration of the position we have before us today. But we find that it is a comprehensive legal work that has now been completed, and that we have received a law that, after all, gives a more comprehensive picture of the legal situation. It has also provided a clean-up and has contributed to a comprehensive review of criminal law provisions in Norway, and we think that is good. It is also good that there has been such a broad consensus, with the exception of the Advance Party. I would almost say it so that in such extensive legal work it would be lacking whether there were not a lot of different views, and that there were divided opinions. A debate on new criminal law should be a debate on criminal liability. There shall be a debate on the various criminal reactions, on the format of the penalty and also on the length of the penalty. That is natural, and today's debate has largely been about that. However, I also think, like some other speakers, that there is reason to point out that crimes in this country are still strongly linked to social conditions and that there is a back ground for crime in Norway that can never be ignored. It suggests that the prevention of crime will continue to be important, but it is also about what measures, other than prison sentences, may be applicable and about the proportions of punishment. In the extension of the debate on new criminal law and the adoption of a new law relating to the punishment and reaction of society, there are in particular two areas where it is important to continue the debate. One relates to crime and drug abuse. I agree that there is still a substantial job to be done here. Crime and psychiatry are also an area in which, in the extension of current treatment, there should be a stronger debate on the law related to this and the design of the punishment, and on whether punishment as a response is sensible and appropriate. I think it might also be possible to comment here that when the legal system in Norway is characterised by a lack of resources, there is no escape from the fact that it means a certain priority in the criminal case chain, and that this is reflected in the practical life, but perhaps not in the more fundamental aspects that we are discussing in this room. The central party is pleased that we are given a criminal law that more differentiates the form of reaction from that of young offenders. We want to help further differentiate it from the majority position and therefore support the proposals No. 2 and 4, from the SV and the Workers' Party, in relation to unconditional punishment and the use of community sanctions. On the other hand, we have no basis for our programme to go as far as the Workers' Party and SV do when it comes to depriving themselves of the possibility of detention of persons under 18 years of age, nor on the question of forced transfer to the conflict council. The Group of the European People's Party also supports proposal No. 1, from the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, because we believe that having such a provision would be legally beneficial. We also choose to support two of the verbal proposals, proposal No. 8) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e397	This is a historical suspense of the debate in Odelstinget today. The applicable penal code was adopted in 1902 and entered into force in 1905. It has thus been the central law in the field of criminal law throughout the Union-free 100-year period we celebrate this year. My basic objective of the bill has been to maintain and develop a criminal justice system that is both suitable for protecting the population and society from crime, and provides the affected and the population with experience and confidence of their protection and care, while respecting the legal certainty and humane response of the perpetrators. It has been a key objective of the Government that the proposed new criminal law should ensure that it can be strictly addressed to the perpetrator of serious or major crime, while at the same time opening up alternative responses and several different enforcement channels to those who commit less serious crimes. This is in popular Norwegian to be hard on the hard and soft on the soft. The protection of life, sexual integrity and the rule of law is strengthened in the proposal for the general part of criminal law. This will include, inter alia: in view of the fact that I have chosen to maintain minimum penalties for the murder, rape and gross sexual assault on children, and to propose a new minimum penalty for the most serious cases of the counter-treatment of the judiciary, such as: use of firearms against the police. I have noticed that the Labour Party and the Advance Party want to lift the minimum penalties for rape and murder. I've been signaling for a long time that the level of punishment in rape and murder cases needs to be raised. When the Storting now in the treatment of new criminal law on a broad and principled basis also expresses this, I am confident that the signals will be followed up. It is in recognition that there are acts more punishable than even double and triple drops that the Government has proposed 30 years of punishment for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. The addition of the Judicial Committee to ‘the most serious acts of terrorism’ is foreshadowing a proposal the Government intended to promote, together with the proposition on the specific part of criminal law. With regard to this proposal, I have to say the following: Of course, there are no people who spread flour and release it for anthrax at the post office in Hamar, we aim for. We are aiming – knocking on the table – at a Norwegian version of Madrid. I think the committee has drawn a logical line at this point, and the ministry will probably be able to promote a criminal delimitation that makes us get back to this point properly and properly. For other serious crimes, the government wants to maintain the longest sentence of 21 years, but opens up a full prison sentence for 21 years. Furthermore, this government has stepped up the punishment for repeat criminal and organised crime. The main target group of the Social Penalty is young criminals that society wants to save from a criminal career. Social penalties shall not be used in cases of gross violence or sexual assault. I am pleased that the Stortinge subscribes to the Government’s proposal to exceptionally open the way for the imposition of community sanctions in the event of serious drug offences where there is a rehabilitation situation. In this context, it should be mentioned that the use of conflict councils is increasing, and the Government is making heavy efforts to establish a way out of a criminal life. The penal code of 1902 existed for a period when Norway was preparing to become a free and independent nation. The challenge now is to address the demands of Norway’s role as an actor and credible partner in the international judiciary on the design of criminal law. In crime areas such as trafficking in human beings, racism, torture, terrorism, corruption and money laundering, international demands and standards have already played a significant role in the design of Norwegian criminal law. The trend will hardly slow down. Now that we are on the threshold of the second century as a modern and independent nation, we must take it inward that the time is past when criminal law was a purely national matter! And so: it is claimed that there are no visions of this proposal. Well, at a time when some people think that we should follow American sheriffs' methods and use multiplication tables, even exponential equations – although it is not suggested in Norway – and some people think we have to be so soft, because looking up the liberal dilemma is so bad and difficult that we try to avoid it, it is certainly a vision to present a penal code that keeps the severe responses to the most serious situations, and that preserves humanity in criminal law and enforcement in most situations, uses ‘restorative justice’ and rates of community punishment and conflict advice. I guess that's a vision! That is a choice of a political line! And for those who follow in the Norwegian social debate, there are other lines that you can choose in principle. Then it is very nice that there is also a budget debate about a criminal law debate. That's very inspiring! It must not, however, be seen as if this government does not have action plans aimed at children and young people that are just to be continued, that we do not have action plans against violence in close relations, that we do not have action plans against trafficking, that we do not have action plans in connection with drugs, and that we do not actively do what we should do in terms of improving the situation of people who are in need, among other things. by setting up a justice-led drug programme. Drawing such an image will be a rough inventory. Let me end with Gudmund Hernes' statement. He said it this way: when you stand close to each other in politics, you become sharpest against each other in Poland!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e430	When I hear the Minister of Justice closing his speech, I understand that we have taken the blink. My question and my challenge were just about what we do with children and young people, and what we do with them with drug problems in Norwegian prisons. Obviously, the Storting here is starting to become impatient. After all, we have been talking about this drug programme for a very long time. My clear challenge and my question to the Minister on this occasion is: Can he now explain to the Storting how far one has come to work and when it comes to Stortinget? We believe that this is an important part of a new criminal law, and not primarily a budgetary issue. On the issue of how to deal with children and young people, it has been raised both in relation to child and young people and in relation to the response of children and young people and the kind of work to be done, both in retrospect and in advance. Is the Minister of Justice saying that we have sufficient legislation there, so that child protection is capable of, among other things, be able to use coercion against children who commit crime, or is there also a need for a new job?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e437	To stick to the pictorial language: it should be simply lacking that one does not blink when using hail against a person as obvious as me in every respect, and also towards a person who has such a high level of activity in so many areas. It's fine, it's fine! But that does not mean that if you hit the blink, you necessarily hit the goal! The representative of Storberget is trying to produce what is almost fun and easy to solve difficult problems in preventing childhood and juvenile delinquency. It's a hard job. It's a tough job that can start very early. Everyone needs to know that we have started this work, for example. by working well together. Doing politics that way doesn't create the big headlines, but you know the world how necessary it is to work like that! Similarly, we need to have proper consultations on how to get courts and others to cooperate to create better forms of cooperation that improve the situation in life. It's a quantum leap – I think the representative agrees with me – when the Norwegian police at Chief Grangedal say: It's not our most important task to dig in your pockets and hunt down worn-out drug addicts. We're going to go after those who are behind it all. But congratulations with good flashes! Haile must meet someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e442	I want to hear the views of the Council of State on independence and the relationship between the court and the legislator. A short time ago, the undersigned and the Council of State took part in a debate on the subject. was how to get courts to follow the legislator’s decision. It expressed, inter alia: There is a clear concern about matters that we wanted to be brought before the Supreme Court to change today's practice. Among other things, he said: that he is unable to pass through in relation to the Supreme Court's Committee on Love. If it is that this is worrying from the Riksadvokat's side, will my question be: does the Council share the concern of the Riksadvokat? In that case, what must we do to get into a better dialogue and ensure that the courts take with them the signals and decisions that are actually taken by the legislator?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e451	The question is timely. We're going to do what's constitutionally correct. In the context of the general part of the criminal law, we have to make clear and clear premises for important criminal law principles that express what you think. Then it's the legislator that gives expression to this. It's a way of speaking that I guess the Supreme Court has thought is incredibly much stronger than comments in a budgetary context. One is the legislator by the general part of the penal code. Then a catalogue is to be created: the special part of the penal code. Then you have the opportunity to adjust to all possible areas. I dare to say that the Storting – there is a shifting majority here, but the government has taken advantage of the most important points – gives very clear signals that the protection of life and the protection of sexual integrity should be strengthened. This must mean, for example, in clear text. that it is believed that the punishment for intentional killing is too low. So I'm not going to go into other aspects of it, but I feel that the legislator has done what you expect to do, at this committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e456	If one were to follow the logic of Doorum and Hernes, the Workers ’ Party and SV would be bitter enemies. On the contrary, as mild as we are against each other, it does not mean anything but that we are fully in agreement on most of this matter. Like Storberget, I'm going to raise this question about children and young people, because we're very concerned about that very question. The United Nations Torture Committee will soon come back to Norway to assess the situation. The Children's Ombudsman has said that he is going to deal with this particular matter with the torture committee. Last year, 48 minors were in ordinary custody in Norway, with the damage it causes to these children. Then, of course, we recognize that in many ways it will be necessary to protect society from children as well. But then we have to build alternatives to prisons. And then I wonder what it is now that the department sits and humps on which they can answer if we get criticism from the United Nations Torture Committee in this particular area – which I expect – and which makes it possible to reject all the proposals that the Workers' Party and SV have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e466	It's possible to answer that question. One of the three clear priorities of the current year’s police budget was prevention among children and young people. And the fact that the police participate in this together with good forces is very important. One of the important things is that you react so early in life that it never becomes a criminal career. Well, then we're away with such complex issues as what kind of nutrition do you do with, how do we prevent ADHD, we're out of cooperation with child protection. And we don't hump at all, we're doing a cross-ministerial task of renewing the action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency, following the principle that justice policy must look for child and family policies to ensure that we get practical action. That's not enough for me to make a short comment, but that's of course the whole scope that we're concerned with. And here the representative Thorkildsen and I share the values, there's no doubt about it. This is one of the points where we're going to be soft to the soft and wise in all sorts of ways. When it comes to the difference between the parties, I'm not going to comment on it, it might be interesting to do it later, for example. because I noticed that SV's party secretary thought that criminal policy was not the easiest thing for SV to debate. There are also elements in this committee setting that express it, but it is beyond children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e473	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e476	This has been a good debate, and it is especially gratifying for me to see that the Government has had an impact on its main principle. In recent years, there have been developments in the criminal justice responses that are to meet the new challenges we face and provide for better rehabilitation of convicted offenders. The Social Penalty was introduced in 2001. In addition, it is now possible to zone in treatment institutions, and more treatment provision for prisoners has been established, such as in prisons. sensory programme. The experience of community sanctions is good, and the Government has therefore proposed to extend the scope of the social penalty. For it is important that the courts have sufficient powers to measure an appropriate penalty in the individual case. Today, the limit for measuring social penalties is set at six years of criminal penalties. Instead, the government’s proposal to allow the concrete punishment to be a guiding factor provides an increased opportunity for individualised response. It is particularly important that this change in law will now open up community sanctions for drug offences if the perpetrator is in a rehabilitation situation. For the right, it is important to balance different considerations when considering the forms of criminal response. The consideration of the victims of crime, their relatives and society in general suggests that the scope of social sanctions should not be taken too far. That is why I must repeat that I think it is alarming that the Labour Party, and so far also the Socialist Left, will open up social sanctions in response to serious violent crimes and moral crimes. The right believes that in such cases clear boundaries must be set, and I am afraid that such a rule will weaken the confidence of the law and the judiciary. It is also alarming that the Workers' Party later in the vote is at the same time in favour of minimum penalties in serious rape cases. But it is interesting to see how, in particular, the Labour Party conducts its policy in the field of crime. We were earlier in the debate about being tough and being soft. The Storberg said instead that he is something in between, but it is clear that there are different opinions in different fractions in the Workers' Party. That's why you're a little tough in some places, and then you're a little soft in some places, and then it gets really back and forth, very jumps and jumps, little whole and little thoughtful in criminal policy, unfortunately. The new penal code will ensure that criminal law provides society and individuals with effective protection, in particular against serious, serious crime such as serious attacks on life and on the rule of law and repeated organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e491	The fight against child and youth crime is a high priority for the Government. On the line change after the state council's posts, it may seem that this has passed some houses. It is a priority field, in particular because society must protect itself from criminal acts, but not least to prevent the development of a long criminal career – to the detriment of the youth themselves, the closest and the environment. If we are to be able to fight this crime effectively, we will undoubtedly have to use methods other than those we use against driven criminals. Children and young people shall not be treated as tanned criminals; they have completely different needs from those of a 30-year-old. And it'll be easier to turn children and young people away from a criminal career if you meet them in a good and correct way. It is important that society has other forms of reaction to criminal youth than the worst-case one, namely prison sentences. Right is convinced that if we have prison as a main line towards juveniles who have committed crimes, we have not solved the problem. It is a fact that in many cases the imposition of prison sentences on young offenders can mean the beginning of a heavier criminal race, by identifying with other criminals, establishing networks and learning methods. For this reason, it is important that we have instruments other than prison to use before young people get a long leaflet — tools that can bring them back to the right. Children and young people who are in a risk zone for the development of illegal behaviour, risk being thrown into their local environment between police, child protection, drug care, health services and the school system, as are current laws and practices. It is important to ensure a clear responsibilities between the various bodies meeting the offences of minors. Right wants an obligatory basis for cooperation between law enforcement, auxiliaries, parents and the young person himself. All offenders shall experience a response to their offences that contribute to the accountability of the young person himself, but also an offer that allows for a more positive development. Here, too, it is about tailoring and individual rehabilitation. The Social Penalty has been given a central place in the Norwegian judicial system, and will include, among other things: is a good alternative to prison for this particular group. Norway has incorporated the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It states that imprisonment of children and young people under 18 years of age should be used only as a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time. The figures show that it is becoming increasingly less common to lock up young people aged 15 to 18 within prisons. The number has also decreased in the last four years, from 99 in 2000 to 56 at the end of 2004. This shows that the police, prosecution authorities and courts are more reluctant to put children in prison, and developments are moving in the right direction. On the other hand, unfortunately, in some cases children between the ages of 15 and 18 are committing repeated serious crime or individual acts of such a severity that society needs protection. We therefore consider it appropriate to consider the establishment of several closed schemes for children under the age of 18 who commit crime. An overall committee agrees that it should be possible for the Court to give unconditional judgments subject to the condition of residence of young offenders. There is a need to establish a good aid system to enable young people to settle, to help them reverse criminal behaviour and to give them hope for the future ahead of them, and to contribute to a positive development for those who are at an early age.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e508	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e511	It was the representative of Hofstad who made me take the floor now, mainly because this debate about being tough or soft and the question of whether we are in the middle or where we are, in many ways becomes completely meaningless all the time most parties in this room have said that there are several types of crime we want to react very strongly to, while there is another type of crime we are willing to look far softer at. This was well described now from the pulpit of the representative Schou, who, in my opinion, made a glittering speech on how to meet children and young people. That is why this discussion about whether one is soft or hard, or whether one is in the middle, as the representative of Hofstad has been in the course of the whole debate, is quite uninteresting. The challenge in relation to criminal law is that we need to be able to have more thoughts in our head at once and see that these are people and that we need to put different types of instruments into action. It has been the subject of the Workers' Party, which fortunately several parties have also raised. We don't want to multiply into prison. It would be a disaster for Norwegian criminal law. One of the reasons Norway has low crime rates in relation to other countries is that we have a long tradition of doing the opposite. The line of progress would probably lead to a significant increase in crime rates in Norway, if we were to start treating people that way, including the way they want to prevent. I am also pleased that the right now is both soft and hard about the other, and that from this pulpit it gives its support in relation to the position and accepts that in some cases it is necessary to use social sanctions to deal with serious drug crimes. Very good! So we're left with what's been a germ for debate, the question of morality. In Norway, a 15- to 16-year-old will traditionally have a conditional response — i.e. no response, only a condition of not committing new crimes — for having done something or other to some extent against, for example: a minor. And then our question, which the Workers' Party has taken under careful consideration: would it hurt if you reacted a little more and said that we could also have the opportunity to provide community sanctions where we think it appropriate, especially connected to providing a type of treatment in combination? Can such a flexible response pattern be harmful to minors? No, no, no. It's not worse. We see it as being extremely thoughtful that you just have that opening in the courts. And as I have said before today, the Labour Party has confidence in the courts that you can use both the scope and the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e522	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e535	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e542	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e826	Paragraphs 3–6 and 12–3 present a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 1989 69 if insurance contracts are amended as follows:Articles 3 to 6, first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:In the course of insurance, the policyholder may cancel a current insurance if the insurance requirement falls away or there are other specific reasons, or in the consumer relationship for the transfer of the insurance to another company.§ 12 to 3, second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:In the course of insurance, the policyholder may cancel a current accident or health insurance if the insurance needs fall away or there are other specific reasons, or in the consumer relationship for the transfer of the insurance to another company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e855	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e865	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1211	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1221	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1341	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1351	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1359	20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 8, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 9-20, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for forced transfer to the Conflict Council in cases where children under the age of 18 have committed a criminal act. Derogations shall be made in respect of morality.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1671	There is an alternative proposal, No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 16 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following:The person who has intended to enforce an offence which may result in a prison period of 3 months or more and who commits what is intended to lead directly to the execution shall be punished for trial, unless otherwise specified.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1804	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the new § 26a. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Section 26a of the Criminal Code shall be replaced by the following:§26a. Restrictive interpretation Even if there is no legal basis for impunity, specific circumstances may result in a penalty order not being applied to an act covered by the wording.’ The Central Party has signalled their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1968	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 33 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:§ 33. Limited use of prison sentences against young offendersWho was under 18 years of age at the time of action can only be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment when specifically required. The prison sentence may not exceed 8 years.’;» This proposal is supported by the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e1996	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 34 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following:In the case of a prison sentence, the court may decide that the performance is wholly or partly suspended in a probationary period. Postponed completion of parts of the sentence [[partly conditional, partly unconditional]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e2113	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the new last paragraph of Section 40. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 40 of the new last paragraph of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:The person who was under 18 years of age at the time of action cannot be sentenced to detention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e2256	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is to Section 48, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 48 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following: This proposal is supported by the Centre Party. Then it's proposal No. 11, from the Promskrittspartiet, to the whole of § 48 and the whole of § 49. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 48 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:§ 48. Conditions for condemning socialpunishmentSociety sentences may be sentenced instead of prison sentences if otherwise they would not have been punished more severely than one year in prison, the offence does not have a penalty framework of more than 3 years, the purpose of the sentence and the victim does not speak against a reaction to freedom, and never for the offences referred to in Chapters 27 and 28 of the Act, and the offender consents and has resided in Norway. Paragraph 49 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:§ 49. Hours, subsidiary prison sentence and enforcement timeIn the case of social sanctions, the court shall determine) an hour, which shall be from 110 hours, and where 8 hours correspond to 1 day prison,b) a subsidiary prison sentence, which shall correspond to the prison sentence that would have been imposed without social punishment, andc) an execution period, which shall normally correspond to the subsidiary prison sentence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e2523	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 61 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:§ 61. Penalty non-compliance Even if criminal offences are considered proven, when specific reasons warrant, the court may refuse to impose penalties. Paragraph 60, second paragraph, shall apply mutatis mutandis.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e2802	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘(b) the first paragraph of Section 79 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following:(b) where a previously convicted person has re- committed a deliberate criminal offence of the same nature or where the sentence is imprisonment for more than 6 years, for which he has previously been sentenced here in the Kingdom or abroad, the penalty may not be lower than half of the ordinary penalty frame of the offender unless the penalty is decided otherwise by himself. Where the person is convicted of intentional acts of the same nature or where the penalty framework has been in prison for more than 6 years, more than once before, the prison sentence may be increased by up to twice and shall not be lower than the maximum penalty imposed by the penalty. The prison sentence referred to in the preceding sentence may not be increased beyond 30 years. The first subparagraph of this point shall not apply if more than 10 years have elapsed since the enforcement of the previous judgment.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e2984	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 86 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:§ 86. The limitation periodThe limitation period for the limitation of criminal liability is 10 years when the highest statutory penalty is fined or jailed for up to 6 years,b) 30 years when the highest statutory penalty is fined or jailed for more than 6 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e3090	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e3169	The President will draw attention to the fact that proposals for this part will be made in his own motion later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e3451	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party, to § 127, first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act 22 May No 10 1902 The first paragraph of § 127 shall be replaced by the following: He who seeks by violence to form a public servant to perform or to refrain from any act of service or to prevent him under such an act, or who contributes thereto, shall be punished with imprisonment for at least 1 year and up to 6 years, but up to 15 years, when he commits the crime in association with any other person."
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e3831	The President assumes that we can vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to § 174 new first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: «Act No 22 May 1981 No 25 on the proceedings in criminal matters, Section 174 shall be replaced by the following:Persons under the age of 16 may not be apprehended.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e4121	Then the president thinks we've been through the whole law. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e4133	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower-2.ana.ud1871e4153	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
