ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e26	The representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Trine Skei Grande, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa and Ola T. Loans, which have been licensed, have again taken their seat. The called alternate of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the care leave of the representative, Olav Akssen, from 14 March onwards and until further notice. from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative, Karita Bekkemel Orheim, from 14 March until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Mora and Romesdal counties, Ottar Kaldhol, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Karita Bekkemel Orheim, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for the Hordaland County of Pål Berberfjord and for the More and Romsdal counties of Bjørg Riksfjord, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e83	Pål Barrefjord and Bjørg Riksfjord are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e91	Before we start dealing with the issues on the agenda, the President will allow himself to refer to the provisional meeting plan, which included, if necessary, the evening meeting. Those who have thrown a glance at the agenda will probably have come to the conclusion that there is a possibility to overlook. They're right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e105	The President is quite right that we are not going to deal with this matter far beyond the morning meeting. That's right. Document No 3:2 for the 2004-2005 Riksauditionen, the Stortingen shall be able to give an image and a basis for exercising control over the State as its owner in a number of companies and undertakings. According to the Riksaudition, the objective of audit control is to take a position on whether the State Council has exercised its task of managing the interests of the State. Over the last few years, the bulk of population has ensured that large parts of general government are freed and separated as enterprises and companies. These undertakings and companies maintain important social and economic interests for the Community. In 2003, the control of the National Audit Office covered a total of 37 wholly owned companies, 37 jointly owned companies, 5 regional health companies, 5 state enterprises, 6 enterprises organised by separate law and 26 student partnerships. Due to its scale, this document from the National Audit Office is extremely important, and it is of increasing importance for the control possibilities of the Grand Duchy. I want to say that the Riksrevision has given us a good basis for control. The National Audit Office has several comments on the administration of regional health enterprises by the Ministry of Health. The Committee has naturally concentrated on these, and I point out that we also have comments in other areas. Before I explain this, I would like to address a topic that has sometimes aroused much and justified debate, namely the state's policy in the area of pay and pension conditions for senior executives in public limited-liability companies and in companies where the state is a significant shareholder, including health companies. The Committee has addressed the Prime Minister's office on this subject and received an answer, including: the development of guidance on the conditions of employment of managers in state-owned undertakings and companies. They were established by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2004. I perceive that this is a tightening up, especially in the case of health businesses. But the state also has a responsibility not to give managers unfairly good employment conditions. The obligations of state ownership also include ethical guidelines to take precedence in these areas. Therefore, the Progress Party and the SV are amazed that the guidelines apply only to whole state enterprises and are not applicable to all companies in which the State is a shareholder and participates in the governance. The provisions of the Share Act requiring shareholders to be treated in the same way by the Board of Directors and the Business Meeting cannot prevent the State from seeking to win with the governance to be provided by the State. I refer you to the proposals that SV and the Progress Party will be promoting, and to the setting. I believe that the Workers' Party agrees that the State has a special responsibility as the joint owner to use the role of setting standards for areas such as management wages and ethical guidelines. But they won't instruct the Council of State, and I assume that the Workers' Party is preparing for it. But so it's actually a majority for the state to go beyond what the Government stands for in these areas, and I ask the Council of State to comment on how he deals with it. So to the health business. When I look at the Riksrevision's findings, which are to be the basis for the public to become aware of the operation of the companies, and that the Council of State will have the basis to correct the course, the Stortinget can today be happy that the Riksrevision got the job when the hospitals were converted into businesses. The Court of Auditors has commented on a number of issues, and this has been discussed in the past. This applies, inter alia, to: code practices, breaches of public procurement law, including purchases of consultancy services, and mixing of roles. This is, as I said, the relationship that has been pointed out several times in the past, last year in the handling of Document No. 3:2 for 2003-2004. The majority of the Committee therefore finds it unfortunate that this has not been corrected in the course of its investigations by the Riksrevision. At the same time, however, the Committee notes that we have been informed that a number of governance measures have been implemented by the Council of State during 2004. I expect the Council of State to follow up on this, and that the situation is corrected at the next crossroads. It is important that hospital companies follow the public acquisition legislation. Several companies have been criticised for not doing so. The Committee points out that if public activities consider that the procurement rules are too complicated, too ineffective and – I would add – too bureaucratic, or the amount limit is too low, then we as decision-makers must be informed about this, so that it is possible to change the legislation if it is done by a majority of politicians. The question of code abuse is also a theme in this report, as it was last year. Intervention-driven financing is known to be designed to reimburse regional enterprises for government expenditure per year. treated patients. Proper medical coding of patient stays is a prerequisite for the regional health establishments to receive appropriate reimbursement from the country. National audit studies indicate that the error classification of the DRG is still too large. It is unfortunate that a miscoding is carried out for the financial management of healthcare companies and the trust in funding, but also for patient safety reasons. Correct coding is particularly important since the input-driven funding represents a total of 60 pst. of the total funding. We have noticed that the National Audit Office will carry out an administrative audit in this area. We're happy with that. An overall committee has also noted that the Ministry of Health has launched a national strategy to improve code quality. One element of this is, among other things: a more active use of the so-called Billing Selection. The Committee expects the Ministry to monitor the work so that the critical code practice ceases and the Storting to be informed of the activities of the Billing Committee. In the setting SV raised the question of whether it is necessary and appropriate to establish a competent control body that controls the follow-up of hospitals with code practices, because we are serious about such a high level of error coding. This type of control is actually the same as the public health service is currently subject to. The National Audit Office has commented on the follow-up of reporting by the Ministry of Health in the context of the performance development of regional health enterprises. The majority of the Committee considers that the large financial deficits of healthcare companies may indicate that financial control is inadequate and, I would add, may also indicate under-budgeting. This majority assumes that the Ministry of Health is following up the serious economic situation of health businesses. I would particularly challenge the Council of State to comment on the information provided in the Sunday newspaper program in NRK P2 yesterday. Based on that information, there's reason to be concerned about whether we're facing a deficit bomb in the hospitals too later, because of the billing rules the Council of State put up, and I also understand that the National Audit Office has warned against. So a comment from SV on the development of health businesses. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the developments we warned about in the implementation of the health reform are taking place. Both because of this and because of a high proportion of input-driven funding, a type of business-economy thinking has emerged in the specialist healthcare service. There is something that, among other things, The evening item in an article series has been busy. When a person travels the hospital, he also gets clear messages that now is the money to look at, not care and treatment. Increased competition, privatisation and the large profits of private hospitals because they treat the ‘least’ patients, a closed culture, miscodification and error priorities can thus result from this business-economy thinking. Therefore, it will be very important for the SV to provide a rapid evaluation of the health reform. We're going to be very happy if we're wrong about our concern. But at least it's incredibly important to get this evaluation, and that the moments I pointed out are also evaluated. I refer to the comments made by the Committee under other departments, and I address the proposals on which the Progress Party and the Socialist Left are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e137	The representative of Ågot Valle has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e142	In relation to the choice of company model, I once read that choosing a company model means choosing a reality. I wondered if the representative Valle could explain how, within a company model, as an AS is, she could imagine how the state would win within the company's organs without having market-related consequences and negative economic consequences for the company as such, as used in the comments of the SV and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e149	Now I don't think going ahead in ethics, in terms of pensions and management wages, will weaken the competitiveness of state companies or companies where the state has significant interests. On the contrary, I think it will strengthen the state even where it has economic interests, and I think it will also strengthen society that the state is taking the lead in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e154	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e157	As the Advocate General pointed out, the objective of the Court of Auditors’ audit is to examine whether the Council of State has carried out its task of managing the State’s interests in companies, etc. in accordance with the decision of the Storting. This is independent of whether it is for general meetings, business meetings or guidelines provided for by law, instructions, regulations or requirements for the award of appropriations. This is a very central point, because these companies carry out activities that are crucial to the infrastructure of society and how the assumptions and decisions of the Storting that affect people most, especially in the welfare field, are translated into practical policies in the different companies. The Frøiland Committee was concerned about this issue, and it underlined the importance that the exemption of public activities should not weaken the control possibilities of the Stortingen and the Riksrevision. There shall be no choice of organisational form to determine the ability of the Storting to control. Today, as I said, important service production is governed by government purchases of services, paid by grants, concessions or other regulation in relation to companies. It is therefore necessary to ensure a real opportunity to assess how whole state enterprises perform their social obligations. During the examination of the decision of the Frøiland Committee, the Storting endorsed the proposal to extend the Riksaudition’s right to carry out the administrative audit to entire state companies. Why is this so important? Why should the Biggest now interfere in how these companies operate? I think this is most noticeable in relation to health businesses, because an organisational form and a company form have been chosen to enable health businesses to operate financially soundly while at the same time taking care of what is the primary task of health businesses, namely to treat people who have become ill, run preventive activities and, together with the community health service, to ensure that people's health can continue to improve in this country. These are fundamental and important societal issues. If you choose an organisation that detracts from Stortinget's ability to control whether Stortinget's assumptions have been followed up, the requirement will be that we have to have a different type of organisation, which ensures popular governance. I ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to this, because if one does not ensure that one has systems where the Storting has the ability to test its control, the requirement for another form of enterprise will come with quite considerable strength. I don't want to be forced through corporate forms to ensure a popular governance that makes it more difficult to run these companies sensibly. But on the other hand, the Workers' Party cannot agree that if we see that this chosen form of enterprise leads to systematic set-up of Storting's intentions, we must find other instruments. Therefore, this national audit report is so important for Storting’s ability to verify whether the management of these companies has been in line with the intentions of Stortinget. We cannot get into such a situation in this society, based on the principles of the People's Council, that important activities to safeguard the welfare society are exempted from the influence, involvement and control of the Government. This is a principle that I think we must all seek to maintain, while at the same time ensuring that the businesses that are to provide services for the population are so well and efficiently organised that we get the most back for the money. It's a balance sheet, but it's very important to be aware of the different issues. One also sees it in the theme where the Committee has shared, where the opposition has not even managed to gather, in terms of the issue of directors' salaries and pensions. I think I have to say that a majority of the committee's members are dissatisfied with the developments we have seen in the government's management salaries and in the state's pension agreements. The Labour Party has not wanted to go as far as the Progress Party and the Socialist Left have wanted to do, in directing the Government to specific actions. We believe that this is in fact a complex issue, while it is quite obvious that the state, through its ownership activities, whether it is wholly-owned or jointly-owned companies, must have the opportunity to pursue a general policy on pay and pensions, but also on a number of ethical issues in which the state has a general view and overall responsibility. We will not vote in favour of the proposals that have been tabled, as indicated in the vote. But we say in a comment in the setting that we ‘refers to the Government as a matter of course to explain to the Government the manner in which the Government intends to follow this up’. This means the whole issue of the state’s ownership, either as a healer or with the possibility to develop guidelines for board members on how to act in the rented companies, and how to avoid the one-way approach of the state, which has a high level of payment ability, becoming a payroll manager in different businesses and in another way a leading company in the case of high pension agreements. This should not be the government's policy, and we must try to get this under better control. I hope the Council of State does not agree that these two proposals were not adopted in the Storting, but realizes that with these two proposals, together with the comments of the Workers' Party, this constitutes a majority in this Chamber who want a wide-ranging discussion of these issues in the Stortinget, and that the Government, in particular the Council of State, which has a primary responsibility now for the various state companies, clarifies how this is intended to be followed up by a comprehensive policy. The rapporteur went quite well through the challenges we face in relation to the Court of Auditors’ observations, in particular with regard to health businesses. It is a pity to say, but it is actually the case that the issues listed by the National Audit Office with regard to health companies have gradually become common in the observations of the National Audit Office with regard to a number of establishments in the State and for departments, in fact also with regard to the Stortinget, where it is not possible to have the administration and the procedure to comply with the State's economic legislation and the State's public procurement legislation. These are points that I believe the Riksrevision, the Council of State and also the Storting must pay considerable attention at the time that comes, so that this is given under control and control. If compliance with the rules is difficult, there may also be a need to review the rules and see whether the rules are adapted to a desired reality and not to a real reality. But it's the government's responsibility to come to Stortinget with a possible proposal for decoration measures. In a time when there is a lot of focus on, for example: corruption, contact, I have to say that some of the findings of the Riksrevision have not exactly helped to strengthen the belief that there is no connection, although there is no reason to assume that something criminal has happened. But when auditors in special companies are at the same time given the task of consulting companies for relatively expensive money, there is reason to ask questions about the company's overall governance and how it is intended to follow the guidelines that the state itself has set up for later. So I ask the National Auditor to have a special focus on this in the future as well, and I also ask the Government, if it believes that these are so difficult rules that they are impossible to fulfil, to go through the legislation and possibly propose embellishment. Finally, the Committee has previously, but now in particular, asked for feedback on Entra Eiendom AS. Both the Stortinget and the National Auditorate have repeatedly asked for an explanation in a separate case as to whether Entra Eiendom's main strategy and task lie within the assumptions underlying the Stortinget case when the company was set up. The distribution of the building mass between Statsbyggen and Entra Eiendom will have to be central in such a context. That is why a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, have asked that such a case be promoted for the Stortinget, so that it can be dealt with in the spring session. It might sound like it's an impossible task for the government, but it can't be. This should be so clear that you can do it immediately. In addition, the Storting and the Riksrevision have repeatedly asked for this to be done. So I'm going to ask the state council that's here on behalf of the government, that this be taken seriously, and that it be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e199	Let me first join the representative Kosmo's request to the present State Council in the case of State Building and Entra Eiendom. That's something we in Stortinget expect the Government to follow up. Then, in the light of comments and comments, I will be allowed to express my amazement that the Workers' Party is, in effect, joining the views of the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party in the position, but will therefore vote against the natural conclusion of a proposal that instructs the Government on pension and management salaries. The more I have looked at the guidance guidelines that are in force, and which also the government parties defend, the more surprised I am that these are only about the whole-time state companies. In terms of salary and pension conditions in general: «The salary and pension conditions of the manager shall be competitive and determined on the basis of clear criteria in terms of competence, nature of activity and performance.» These are very good and good guidelines. There is a reservation that one should be competitive. Why should this apply only to the companies where you own 100 pst? by the shares, or organised by special laws? Why should it not be a reasonable position where the state meets at the general meeting and, where appropriate, discuss pension and salary relationships in the company together with other shareholders in the general meeting, and also contribute to the election of people to the business meeting, which should have that kind of attitude, and feel that even when it is a partner, it is a minority or majority win? If there were no reservations about having competitive wages and pension conditions, there would have been something quite different. The company would then be put in a difficult situation if the judgements could not be made. When one disagrees that this should be the line of the jointly-owned companies, including those listed on the stock exchange, it is almost in reality said that it is okay that the companies in which the state is a major shareholder are the leaders in the country in terms of senior remuneration. There can be no sensible attitude for the state. It'll be directly embarrassing when, for example, the Prime Minister, before the wage settlements, calls for moderation, while, where appropriate, a company in which the State is a majority shareholder and listed is taken into having the extremely highest management salaries and golden parachute agreements in the country. It has actually happened in the past that some leaders have had to stop because parachutes and the like have become known, among other things. as regards the former head of the group of Statoil. Of course, where the country is the owner, one should have a general policy of having competitive wages and pension agreements, but one should not necessarily be the leader, one in front of others. It's the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party actually say in this setting. When the Government and government parties have a different view, SV and the Advance Party think it makes sense to give an instruction, so that we later get feedback in the form of St.meld. No 4 on the possible follow-up of a decision. I therefore think it is sad that the Labour Party does not vote in favour of the proposal, so that we could get this further. Parachutes are not directly mentioned, but pension contracts can also be referred to as parachutes. In the case of parachutes, I would advise you to make sure clearly that where a board wants to cancel a top manager by saying that it is no longer going on, it is okay to get some sort of agreement between the top manager who is going to resign, and the board, based on the fact that retirement occurs immediately. The law applies, and you can say that you feel unsubstantiated here. You may be asked to stand in the position, take advantage of all the opportunities and perhaps be in the position one year after the board has taken a unanimous action to get him out of the position. Then it is natural that the board pays off to avoid the lawsuit, and that you get a resignation on the day. It is only in some businesses in the country that people are said to resign, but let them continue in the position for a while afterwards. First, you undermine the authority by giving them up, and then you let them continue in the position for a while, without the necessary authority to do the job. Of course, it is a human resources policy that, excuse me, does not look like the pig and would not be done in any private enterprise or enterprise of any size. But it does happen in some parts of the state that are governed by state councils in the current government. We're going to get back to that in another case. So where the board cancels a manager, I think the parachute is natural. But when a leader, a group manager or a top executive, himself resigns, and one nevertheless agrees that it should happen relatively quickly, it is natural that one should be paid the notice period. It's totally hopeless if you're going to get paid longer than the formal notice period, once you've quit yourself. This has also happened with the blessing of previous governments. I think that's clearly a udder. If you cancel yourself, you have an obligation to stand during the period of notice. If you are offered to go before for various reasons, this should not result in an extended pension agreement. Finally, the DRG system has also been mentioned in this debate. I would like to say that it is purely the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that the DRG codification is correct in relation to the costs of the various treatments in hospitals. In principle, there should be no indication that some operations or treatments are more profitable than others, because the DRG system itself at different rates and points should reflect the cost of each treatment. Sometimes the paper reads that private individuals have made a lot of money in some form of operation. I would like to say that it is up to the Council of State to ensure that agreements are negotiated, so that the entire DRG system is proportionate to the costs. Where there are different major complications, it should be possible to continue working to obtain payment where there is not an operation carried out but a continuous treatment. In the DRG system, you also have to be able to collect some kind of hourly payment or reimbursement for the time that goes by for the various health professionals, including in the case of psychiatry, and treatment of chroniclers, so that you cannot blame the DRG system for any possible failure priorities. Then the system needs to be corrected, so that it becomes equally profitable for a hospital no matter what they do. Other, more medically-professional criteria shall determine which treatments are being carried out. It's a responsibility of the Council of State. I hope the Council of State will confirm that he will work towards getting systems that do not make treating some patient groups more profitable, that one should simply refund based on the costs of the various treatments in the healthcare system, whether in public or private.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e219	The President will express some doubts as to whether the expression ‘not like the pig’ is in parliamentary language, but will assume that at least it is not a commendable expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e224	Once again, we have a solidly prepared document from the National Audit Office, a document that should at least lead to some adult training in this room. Otherwise, it is well that when these references that come from the Riksrevision come up again and again and have as serious a character as they have, there should really be stronger words in use. Then it's more than adult education, then it's something that's being warned to both the political and the bureaucratic environment that it should be taken more seriously than it's been done to date, in my opinion. It is, as the majority of the Committee points out, worryingly and unluckily that, in particular, the references made by the National Audit Office concerning the specialist health service, which I am going to take for granted, have not been corrected during the period covered by the National Audit Office's investigation. In several cases it is. The majority then say that ‘the complexity and overall size of health enterprises require competent governance’. Yes, it's clear, but it'll be a purely commercial way of expressing itself. What is even more important, in my view, is that this complexity and size are so important to patients and those of our citizens who need health care and good follow-up on care, care and rehabilitation, that this is very serious. The majority of the committee also says that the Riksrevision findings indicate that the Minister of Health has challenges to solve. Yes! In the opinion of the undersigned, it is well expressed in Parliament. I believe that the Minister of Health, the Department and we here at Stortinget have more than one challenge. We actually have a huge task ahead of us that it should have partly solved a long before. I share the view of the Socialist Left's comment when they point out that the corporate system and the high proportion of input-driven funding currently in the system lead to a large degree of business economic thinking and organisation for increased competition and privatisation in healthcare. We have a closed culture in the management system here, which has led to increased management salaries, increased pension agreements, a criticized code practice, as pointed out in the National Audit Office's notes, and the fact that private hospitals have a much better performance on some treatments than the equivalent treatment of the economy and earnings for the public hospitals. We also have an economic system that indicates that we get what I call bonding in our healthcare system. It goes beyond them with the most complicated diagnosis, it affects older people with a lot of diagnosis, and it leads to a quick management of some pathologies or some diagnosis with a correspondingly high degree of swing door spacers. Nor can it be a good economy, and there is in no way a good social economy and policy towards those in need of health care. I believe that these are things that need to be more closely involved in the political assessment of the health business system and that there are elements that need to be included in an evaluation of the health reform as soon as possible. Thus, various specific aspects are dealt with here, including: purchases of consultancy services. It is a practice not only for health services, to rationalize, streamline and terminate people who have both professional insight, knowledge and ownership of their responsibilities and employment. Instead, consulting services which do not have any of these qualities are purchased and which are also purchased on very special criteria in some cases. This is also a reason to say as an addition to what is left of the Riksrevision and of the Committee. When it comes to several of these specific issues, I'm not going to get into everyone. However, it is important that a sheep for procurement rules, contract rules, which are good, fair and keep goals in both legal and economic contexts. When you look at some of these things that are referred to here, I'm at least quite concerned about what's going on in the public domain, even within our healthcare system. In the case of IT agreements, there are also physical leases and operating contracts, and what a close can call interconnection should not exist. I mentioned so far that private clinics have a much better performance in medical treatment compared to public hospitals. I really hope something is done here. It is not difficult to obtain operating results and accounts that show that private institutions are much more economically viable, in order to use a completely wrong form of expression than public hospitals. Nor is it difficult to look at the effectiveness, when they can perform elective treatment, in relation to a public hospital, which is to be on standby and responsible 24 hours a day 365 days a year. These are things that should appear in a report on this system. Diagnosis-related groups and response-driven funding are also affected in this report. I'm not going to say so much about this right now, but it's pretty daunting that 6 pst. less in reimbursement in relation to the ISF scheme amount to approximately DKK 1 billion. If there is then a good part of the fault encoding and a good part of the wrong performance due to the fault coding, it will be large sums, and it is wrong in many contexts. Economically, it is wrong, but I am at least as concerned on behalf of the patient that in this country there is a record of misdiagnosis on individuals for health care companies to have a different income from what they are entitled to. It can also be alarmed as a health policy that some of these incorrect data form the basis for the health policy to be adopted in this Chamber. It is another, very serious aspect of the case, which is pointed out in the position, and which I hope the Minister of Health will take up and do more than what has been done now. So for this with information and messages from health businesses. I think it is very worrying that the annual reporting is as deficient as it is. When e.g. Health Nord has failed to draw up proposals which they should definitely make, and even if the other health regions have too poor levels of reporting to the ministry and to the general meeting of this large enterprise, the decision-making basis cannot be particularly good either for the ministry or for the size of the enterprise. I feel that this is a great weakness at Health-Norway today, and there is a relationship that I think is soon to compare with another large area we have discussed the pole up and down the last, namely the defense. I believe that there are so many failing procedures and too bad arrangements here that something should happen quickly. As a result, I would like to repeat this with a quick evaluation round of the health business system, which we should be receiving as soon as possible in Stortinget. I share with the other representative Kosmos the assessment of how long it is necessary to accept the failure of management, the failure of the administration of health care businesses, before looking at another way of doing so. I think it was a wise and positive signal from the Workers' Party's spokesman here today. The planning documents are important. I feel that the health business system and the political system are ‘on the verge’ of what it should be in such an important matter. We are talking about one of the most important welfare areas for the population, health and health care. Then, too, financial reporting comes in relation to annual reports and communications from health businesses to the ministry. It is not easy for health-care providers to report well and properly when poor signals are given by the contracting entity and the owner, to which it has been given at present, in respect of status arrangements, depreciation rules and depreciation practices. It is very important to have a proper reporting basis, that you have a real accounting and budgeting basis, and I believe that health care companies do not have, because the status setting is not in place properly. It was like some of the jewels in the Health Business Crown – to rewrite a little from the tax debate that we had a few years ago – that a business-economy model should be set for accounting purposes, in order to have sound and proper development and a proper financial management. This has not happened, and that was among other things. what was the basis for the news release this weekend. I didn't see the whole, but I have at least previously also pointed out, and I have among other things. in the 2005 state budget, that it is scandalous that neither the owner nor the government, at both the level of landfilling and the department, have put this in better place before. It gives an economic situation in hospitals that is unsustainable. It accumulates a deficit that is not visible today, and from the Center Party's side we have, among other things. Based on a total deficit of DKK 4 billion in 2003, as stated in the report of the National Audit Office as well, and then there must be credible figures, suggested that we should make a debt cancellation in hospitals. We were then informed by the vast majority here, including the Department's signals, that such debt cancellation would not help to improve the functioning of hospitals, and that is not true. I also believe that when we are accused of almost throwing money at hospitals, it is to correct some of these major weaknesses in terms of the economy and the operating base system for health businesses today. We have to do something about this, because the demand for balance now in 2005 and the situation that lies there partially obscured makes it a very difficult operational situation, and it is in my view difficult to maintain the capacity that we need to have in order to have a good health supply and good treatment capacity in this country. The National Audit Office then found out, through its control, that there are very many weaknesses, that the reporting is different and deficient, and that follow-up and control, perhaps from the department as well, are deficient, at least late. It makes me think that this report is very serious, and I hope that at least we will be able to get a proper review of these conditions, so that we might get some changes in the operating and management systems that, in total, provide a better health care service in this country, because that's what it really is about. So that's the other relationship that's also pointed out here. The use of consultancy services and the use of directors and board members is nothing new. We have had such a case before in relation to Health South. Now it comes to health in the middle of Norway and to health in the east. It has to go away, if you're going to have full trust in this system. I am not going to comment particularly on the latter, but I have to say that when the auditor for Health Bergen receives a 14-time remuneration that is an ordinary auditor's fee, there must be something serious wrong with some of the procedures. When we also know that that fee may be primarily related to counselling, at least it won't be better. It is well possible that the money has been done correctly by the consultant, but that the audit of your own advice in company audit is not acceptable. With regard to the two proposals from the minority, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, the Central Party will support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e269	I would like to begin by stating that I, as the owner of the regional health companies, take a very serious view of the issues raised by the Riksrevision in Document No. 3:2 and as has been stated in part of the submissions, there are also references made in documents to the Storing earlier. To make this quite clear, I have given a very clear message to the directors of regional health companies, which I will come to, that in the future I will not accept that there are repeated violations of law and regulations. My starting point is of course that Norwegian law and Norwegian legislation should also apply to health businesses. It may seem obvious, but it hasn't always been perceived that way. That is why this was one of the very first things I grabbed last year in the afternoon and autumn, when I took over as Minister of Health and Care. National Audit Office studies show that regional health firms have not had sufficient systems to detect errors or learn from their errors. Now that I have taken action within regional health companies, there are two things to consider: firstly, systems must be set up to prevent errors from occurring, and secondly, there must be systems to ensure that the errors are corrected, and that they are not repeated over and over again and from enterprises to businesses. On the other hand, we need to be realistic enough to recognise that in an organisation with 110 000 employees, errors will also occur in the future as long as they are just people. But here it's important to set up systems to prevent that from happening, and also to learn from the mistakes you're making. Several of the points made by the Riksrevision in 2003, as I said, are understandable, as was also pointed out in the previous year, and the clarification that some members of the Committee have made on this matter is understandable. It is true, however, that even though the Ministry in 2003 took measures to correct errors already mentioned in 2002, there is a certain – whether I have to be allowed to say so, President – inertia in such a large system, so that in 2003 the measures did not fully take effect in the year in which they were implemented. This work has been further intensified in 2004. The Ministry has had a strong focus on the follow-up of legal requirements and other regulatory requirements in general and public procurement legislation by regional health enterprises in particular. In the following, I would like to refer to some of the measures that have been implemented. As regards the procurement rules, several meetings have been held with the managing directors of regional health establishments. There are meetings where I have also been. During the period 25 August to 4 August. Last October, meetings were held between the Ministry and each of the regional health establishments and underlying health establishments. The theme of the meetings was an overall review of the strategy and measures of regional health enterprises to ensure compliance with the legal framework and the absence of the National Audit Office’s records in these areas in the future. In particular, it focused on what is involved in procurement, that it is done in accordance with the applicable public procurement legislation. There is no excuse, as I see it, and as someone has pointed out, that it is unclear. First of all, as I see it, it has been the will to live by it. In letters dated 16 September 2004 to the regional health establishments, the Ministry gave guidelines on good business management in relation to the follow-up to legal requirements and other regulatory requirements. The letter made it clear that the Ministry considers the practice of 2003 to be clearly unsatisfactory and that therefore there will be closer follow-up by the Ministry in this area. The day after, that is, 17 September, there was a meeting with the managing directors of all the regional health companies, and the content of the letter was further clarified. On 5 October last year, the work of the Management Board for 2005 was briefed by the Management Board and the Executive Director, where good business management has been put on the agenda. In particular, I took up the independent control function of the boards vis-à-vis the managers of the companies. From 2005 onwards, I have established a new practice in the governance of regional health businesses. An overall management plan for 2005 was communicated in January this year through the ordering document and the business meeting. At the business meetings held in January 2005, I have in accordance with the Plan and the notification system for regional health enterprises, as it appears in St.prp. No 1 for this year, required in the following areas for the 2005 business management of health establishments: Firstly, internal control procedures are required. The regional health authorities shall ensure that an internal control system for the establishment is in place. The internal control shall be continuous and the management board shall at least once per. have years to review the status of the whole group of undertakings with regard to the follow-up to internal control and the measures taken to follow-up non-conformities. This is how we find it in Norwegian business, and there is no reason why we should not have similar control mechanisms in our health companies. There are also requirements for the establishment of internal audit, following the pattern of internal audit in both the industrial group and financial institutions. The regional health business boards shall have in place internal audits of the regional health business and of the business group by the end of the second tertiary this year. Internal audit shall be established as a continuous system in all regional health establishments under the direction of the Executive Director, but with the possibility of reporting directly to the Management Board. Three of the members of the Management Board’s appointed members shall constitute a control committee. The Ministry has requested reporting for the second tertiary in 2005 to include confirmation from the Management Board that internal audit has been established. I expect a marked improvement in the follow-up of the procurement regulations by regional health companies as well as other legal frameworks in 2004. By copying a letter from the National Audit Office to the regional health companies, I know that the Riksrevision is already well under way in 2004. The National Audit Office has also commented on the code quality of healthcare companies, which provides a basis for input-driven funding. The review of the national audit concerns 2003 stays. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has not been satisfied with the quality of coding in health businesses and has implemented a national strategy to improve code quality in the summer of 2003. Key elements of this strategy are more frequent cost audits, continued monitoring of registration changes, standardisation work in accordance with the clinical environment and more active use of the Billing Committee to ensure that payments to regional enterprises are as accurate and fair as possible. I have also explained in the 2005 draft state budget the work on improving code practices in health businesses. I want to point out two aspects of code practice. Firstly, the coding, as it is to be performed, is not an exact science. It'll always be kind of based on judgement. The second aspect I would like to highlight is that, in the light of the review by the National Audit Office, it cannot be concluded that the misregistration has resulted in excessive payments through the ISF system as a whole. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the impositions given at the Enterprise Meeting in January were received positively by the Boards of Regional Health Companies. I feel that there is a positive desire to make changes in this area. Preliminary feedback from individual regional health enterprises shows that the measures are already being implemented. Having said that, I also believe that compliance with government requirements is a prerequisite for health businesses to earn the trust of an important social actor, a trust that one depends on. I tend to say that we have 4 and 1/2 million owners in healthcare companies, and these owners should be able to trust that the resources provided by the community are managed in line with the existing resource and legal framework conditions. It is vital that health businesses now establish what can be called order in their own homes, so that attention can be focused on what is, after all, the main objective, namely to ensure and further develop good treatment provision for patients. I will also take advantage of the opportunity to comment on some of the comments and questions raised. The Chairman and the Advocate-General of the Committee requested a comment on the Sunday paper and the information on any non-compliance. I think I should wait. Of course, I could have commented on Sunday newspaper, but the matter that was mentioned will come to Stortinget in a relatively short time now. Of course, I'm not going to say what date it goes to the Council of States, but one should not ignore the fact that it can be Easter literature, for those who want it. As regards the evaluation of the reform, which was taken up, we have reported in St.prp. No 1 framework for it, appropriations for it – so it's on track. I think that is a very important part of what we are doing, even when we are going to discuss the whole of the health reform as it appears that we are getting a professional good evaluation in advance. Some words to what is not exactly my area, but those relating to the regulations of state enterprises, companies – whole-time, part-time – and which are a certain one of them in the committee, at least as regards whether to make proposals or one. I assume that the Workers' Party's comment and non-agreement to the proposal may have to do with the aspect that can be read in the comment, namely that there is a certain difference between having a whole-time company and having a shared company. This does not mean that you cannot exercise ownership in different ways even in companies where you only have partnership. The State may have expressed objectives in different areas which are taken to the squares of the companies concerned in the assemblies in which they belong. This is evident from some of these comments that are somewhat disproportionate to what is stated in the Share Act. Because it is true that those who sit on the board of a limited liability company are not on behalf of special shareholders but on behalf of the shareholders. It is not that the State has one or two or three representatives in those companies where we have minority or majority positions. It is held responsible as a member of the board of limited liability companies as a group of shareholders. But, of course, in the General Assembly, those who meet on behalf of the State have the opportunity to promote such positions, such views, as is evident from those comments. I take note of the fact that there is a majority in the Stortinget who want to review this, and I will of course ensure that the department and the state council that have the main responsibility here are made aware of this. Then I very much agree with the representative Kosmo said about how to run the regional health company, that not the governance model should be discredited, that poor governance and operation should be the reason for doing something completely different. I think it's important to say, despite the fine of black paint that the representative of Lutvold had, that managing an operation with $65 billion in budget has some challenges. There were several political views on the model that was chosen in its time. For my own personal part, I have to say that I can't see that there are so fundamental weaknesses in the control model we have, that that should in itself be the reason for you to choose a completely different model. I also think it is important to have said that there is a very different experience of being the Council of State and managing regional health companies in relation to managing a commercial company. For it is the express will of the Storting as expressed in decisions and observations, to be implemented by regional health companies, and it is the task of the Council of State to ensure that it does so. This means that there is a need to take some steering action in addition to that resulting from general corporate governance, when you see that this is a fault of its place. It is not the intention, as far as I can see when I read the settings from when the model was chosen in its time, that these five regional health companies should evolve to become confused equal to five county municipalities. That's not the idea. The very number of glosses — to put it that way — of barrels in their time was precisely linked to the possibility of national coordination of both the medical and not least of what is outside the core activities themselves. At least I'm going to do my utmost to ensure that the model chosen is not chosen on the grounds that you don't have the governance challenges. Therefore, it is quite clear from both the order document and, not least, the business meeting that further governance has been taken. It was also mentioned accountant fees, in Health Bergen, it was well. The first paragraph of Section 4-5 is very clear at the distance it should be when this is suitable to weaken confidence. At my discretion, you have clearly breached that limit when you have the 14-double in consultant fees in relation to what are auditor fees. That is why I have put an end to all activities of that kind in the 2005 business meeting. I also agree with the criticisms made about the stability of the regimes. It is not sufficient to have legal certainty. You have to keep a good distance from that line in order to avoid weakening the confidence of a company that operates on behalf of taxpayers. It's also taken care of. With regard to the DRG system and the right price, I very much agree with the representative Hagen in principle, that this is not a problem insofar as you have the right pricing for the jobs you do. However, what is one of the challenges in this system is that there is in some way no right price for each case. It's just a proper price for an average consideration. Looking at the medical situation for the individual patients, it really varies by several hundred percent in payment for the individual patients – cheap and expensive patients – for everything are average considerations. Nor do I hide the fact that historically we know that it has been a challenge, the fact that some people who have run their private clinic have also had part-time jobs in public hospitals and have been sitting in the middle of the coordination point in order to be able to channel patients to themselves or to others. In the end, the representative of Luttvold said that the Senterpartiet had proposed indebtedness, and that the department should also have said that it would not contribute to any improvement. That's not right, the department hasn't said that. What the department has said is that when you cancel a debt in a company, for example, $1 billion, you don't increase the operating space by $1 billion, but the annual financial and capital costs of that billion. It appears from the letter that was sent when there was a problem in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e344	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e347	I notice that the Minister of Health and Health may be trying in a slightly helpful way to comment on what I have pointed out – ‘fixing with black paint’. The paint and the colour of the paint, if any, are largely taken from the Riksrevision report. I do not want to cover up, I would rather try to find out. How black or how serious this is, I think maybe the future will show. As far as debt and balance are concerned, it is clear that cancelling debts in relation to the requirement of balance in health enterprises now has a different meaning than just what the Minister for Health had to do. The Health Minister said he expected a marked improvement in internal control, diagnostic coding, etc. That's good. But can we expect a clean-up and better, more real practice of the status and depreciation system from the Minister for Health, so that there is a more tidy and real operating basis for health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e356	To the end, I can say a unequivocal yes. The size will be presented a proposition in a short time. When it cannot now be transmitted, it is because the ink is not yet dry, but it is becoming so. So it's almost imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e361	The president thought it was over that ink was used in the government! Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e375	Then the Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-14.ana.ud1226e382	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mr Ågot Valle on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party.
