ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-01.ana.ud2270e2535	If no one has anything to object to, I will comply with the request.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-01.ana.ud2270e2545	I then ask the secretary in the last big shot, Signe Eye, to act temporarily as the secretary of the Storting. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 September 2005: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 30 September 2005 at 2.30 p.m. The Secretary of State, Leif Helge Kongshaug, is granted, on application by the Secretary of State of the Council of State, Lars Sponheim.State Secretary, Hans Olav Syversen is granted, on application by the Secretary of State of the Council of State, Laila Davay.State Secretary, Elisabeth Aspaker is granted, on application by the Secretary of State of the Office of the Minister of State, Ansgar Gabrielsen.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. Name calls will be made by the representatives. The President notes that the first representative of each electoral district will deliver the mandate of the National Election Board to the President as they are called up. It was then called up by the representatives. The following representatives were absent: 9. representative of the District of Hordaland, Ågot Valle, 12th representative of the county of Hordaland, Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, 13th representative of the county of Hordaland, Rune J. Skylaaen, 2nd representative of the county of More and Romsdal, Asmund Kristoffersen, 8th representative of the county of More and Romsdal, Leif Helge Kongshaug, 8th representative of the county of Nordland, Ivar Kristiansen, 13th representative of Oslo, Marianne Marthinsen, 12th representative of the county of Rogaland, Hallgeir H. Langeland, 1st representative of the county of Nord-Trøndelag, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, 3rd representative of the county of South-Trøndelag, Per Sandberg, 3rd representative of the county of Eastfold, Svein Roald Hansen, and 5th representative of the county of Eastfold, Martin Engese. The representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen, Ivar Kristiansen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Per Sandberg had fallen due. From the other seven permit applications were available [[see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-01.ana.ud2270e2575	The President will now propose that the last Rules of Procedure, as amended by the Stortinget on 27 May 2005, be put into effect. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Martin Engeset, Svein Roald Hansen, Rune J. Kjellaen and Ågot Valle on leave from 1 October to 14 October to take part in the 60th General Assembly of the United Nations from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug on sick leave from 1 October until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on maternity leave for the representative Marianne Marthinsen from 1 October to the end of the Stortinget Autumn Session from the Workers' Party Group on maternity leave for the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo from 1 October to 23 November from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark on leave from 5 October to 14 October to take part in a study tour with the International Visitor Programme to the United States. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the West-Agder County, Anne Berit Andersen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder County: Ingunn Foss For Hordaland County: Audun Bjørlo Light Hill, Dag Ole Tegen and Sigrid Brattabø Handegard For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Gunn Berit Gärde For Oslo: Truls Wickholm For Eastfold County: Thor Erik Forsberg and Ingerd Schou – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Dag Ole Tegen, Sigrid Brattabø Handegard, Gunn Berit Gjerde, Truls Wickholm, Thor Erik Forsberg and Ingerd Schou are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-01.ana.ud2270e2666	The mandate committee shall then be chosen. The proposed members of the Powers Committee have been appointed by the large-scale groups and the proposal has been distributed to the representatives in their seats in the Chamber. If no one has anything to object to, it is normal to vote for it. In the event of adversarial proposals being made, written voting shall be used. The issued proposal will then be used as a ballot. – No objections have been raised to this approach and the proposed approach will be followed. As members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries, the following were unanimously elected: Bendiks H. Arnesen [[A]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-01.ana.ud2270e2691	The President will request the newly elected members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries to meet immediately after the termination of this meeting. The meeting of the Committee will be held at the S-407 meeting.
