ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e97	Honourable co-representatives! It was with great sorrow that we in Stortinget received the message that John Ingolf Alvheim passed away on December 5. John Alvheim was elected to the Stortinget in 1989, 59 years old. For many, this is a phase of life when you step down your professional career and start looking at how to organize your life as a retired person. For John Alvheim, however, this became a beginning. Alvheim’s working life after the age of 60 was therefore so far from falling. On the contrary, there was a continuous escalation. He never spared himself, he sacrificed his own health, and here might be the answer to why he didn't have the opportunity to enjoy his well-deserved retirement life. The profession as a member of the national assembly of the country gave him the opportunity to work for his heart matters. His political reality was to promote his vision of health change and social protection — and to anchor the visions of political decisions so that they could be translated into practical policies. John Alvheim was one of the most prominent figures in Norwegian politics in the last ten years. His efforts for the sick and weak through his nearly 16 years in the Social Committee of the Storting, first as a member, then as a Vice-Chairman and in the last eight years as a leader, have put lasting traces in the Storting and in the Norwegian community. His strong commitment and expedient efforts will be remembered. Many are the ones in our vast country who thank John Alvheim for getting a better life, after he spent time and energy promoting their cause. His burning commitment combined with a strong belief gave him strength that made him endure where others would have given up. John Alvheim was a politician who meant a difference – in the sense that much would have remained undone if it weren't for John Alvheim. Thus he is a model and a source of inspiration for all of us, even after his passing away. John Alvheim was deeply religious, and his natural political choices were Christian People's Party. But different circumstances led him to leave the Christian People's Party and some time later joined the Advancement Party in 1984, a party he very much participated in forming and making into the party it is today. The Party's health and social policy is largely the merit of John Alvheim. Like so many of those who have followed in Norwegian society, John Alvheim also came from small corps. He was born in 1930 – the year after the big stockbroker in New York, which resonated in many countries, including Norway. The growth of the hard 30s in poor conditions shaped John Alvheim and gave him strength, compassion, understanding and commitment for those who were worse off than himself. John Alvheim's knowledge and experience often made him use strong words in his statements, in posts and debates. He was shaken, he was shocked when he described situations from the reality that he experienced as highly unreasonable, not on his own behalf, but on behalf of others. When on the TV he seemed angry, he was really despairing on behalf of society because there were unacceptable shortcomings and difficult situations for people in health care and care for the elderly. During the election campaign earlier this year he was clearly weakened, but it did not stop him from making an effort others could envy him. John Alvheim was unstoppable, literally until the last. Storting representative John Alvheim enjoyed respect and made friends in all political parties. Many are the ones who feel poor at his departure and who will miss the warm fellow man and the hardworking politician with the big heart. We remember him with deep respect and in gratitude for his work in the Storting and shine peace over John Ingolf Alvheim's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e130	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e133	On behalf of the big business representatives Torbjørn Hansen, Petter Løvik, Bent Höie and myself, proposals are being made for the introduction of a simplified public procurement notice below the tendering limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e143	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e157	This is a unanimous attitude of the Presidency. Based on an enquiry by the Ministry of Justice and the Government, an Billing Replacement Committee II is proposed to deal with the increased amount of cases, as a result of previous decisions by the Storting on new compensation schemes that could be of a temporary nature. At the same time, the Presidency will state that it will review the system of reimbursement of expenses, because it may be appropriate to assess whether a sample is correct and has a composition established by the Stortinget, as a rule with some major representatives, while the Secretariat is part of the Ministry and the requirement of the Chairman is jurisdiction. The three state powers are, in effect, linked in this arrangement. There might be some concerns about that. During this period, the Presidency will go through this mechanism, of course in contact with the Government, to see if changes should be made to a permanent arrangement of this nature, without the cooperation between the various state powers currently taking place. It's a unanimous attitude from the Presidency, but we warn that we will look at the organisation of this arrangement during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e182	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e198	I would like to say a few words about the proposition, which proposes some changes to the 2005 budget in the area of the Ministry of Transport. There is a redispatch to finance 2.2 million. kr to a contribution from Norway to the operation of a European Railway Agency. Furthermore, there is a project, E18 Momarken–Sekkelsten, where the Ministry does well for a governance and cost framework established after external quality assurance. Furthermore, an arrangement is made for a certain amount of risk between the State and the ferry companies when it relates to oil prices. A compensation for the electricity charge for electrified scheduled transport has been proposed to be made transferable in view of a final settlement for 2006. And then there's an additional 30 million. NOK at the cost of conversion at the Railway Station, and finally there is the creation of a faulty path. In the setting, a matching match ends with these proposed changes. Otherwise, the Progress Party has its own proposal for an additional commitment to the budget for this year, as compensation for exceptional road maintenance expenditure on national and county roads. That proposal is all about the Progress Party, so I am no longer going into the changes proposed in the proposal, or the proposal from the Progress Party. I expect the last one will do the Progress Game itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e209	The Progress Party has no comments on the adjustment except for the cap allocations. 1320 State Road Service. Here we want to bring a new item 32 as compensation for exceptional road maintenance costs on state and county roads. This entry we're proposing to increase by 60 million. kr. As everyone here knows, in the autumn there has been a great deal of storm in the West, which has led to major destruction on the roads. These are destructions that neither the Road Administration nor the states had any prerequisites to predict. These destructions have therefore naturally not been taken into account in the road budgets of the affected counties for the current year. We know that the appropriations for operation, maintenance and investment in the road sector are far too small in relation to the huge needs that are around the country. The Party therefore considers that the exceptional damage that has occurred in the West should be compensated for by the estimated damage to the West. 60 million. kr in the affected counties shall be covered by additional funding of 60 million. kr to repair and breed protection after the storm of the autumn. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that the extraordinary expenditure is sorted out in 2005, not to push this forward in such a way that it risks going beyond the plans in each state for 2006 and later in the planning period – this because the 2006 budget has had to be used to cover the acute situation that arose in 2005. I would also like to refer to the treatment of the state budget by the Stortinge in 2006, where several members of the Stortinge were very concerned about the need to take immediate action to reduce the racial risk in Norway. I would therefore challenge the majority to support the proposals of the Progress Party on the Cape. [[new]] 1320 Item 32 on the additional allocation of 60 million. kr to compensate for the unforeseen expenditure in 2005. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Progress Party for amendments to the 2005 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e222	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e240	Nordmøre needs this project. The region itself has taken a heavy load. The State must facilitate such projects, not hinder or delay them. I've noticed the creativity and willingness that exists in this region when it comes to solving difficult transportation projects. The Imarsund connection can be an example of this. The Atlantic Tunnel I think is another good example of local community and region addressing their own challenges. Then the big community should help, not slow down. Nordmøre takes this seriously. They don't come to the state asking for money, but they take the entire bill themselves. This is done by making users pay tolls instead of paying a ferry ticket. At the same time, the local business community, the municipalities and the state provide equity capital, premiums and guarantees. Even the last extra guarantees were put in place at short notice – this is because the whole of More and Romsdal would like the northernmost part of the county to realize this so important project. Then it is only fair and reasonable that the state participates in solutions to realise the project. As a midwife, I want to express today that I feel a little like a North Butter, and from my whole heart, I like the North Mortars that they finally get the long-term decision in this room. I have understood that it is entirely decisive for this project to extend the toll period to 20 years. That must be a good thing. I have been briefed on the plans and calculations, and as long as the project is within a defensive economic framework and has an acceptable risk, the length of the toll period must be subordinate. The alternative is a ferry forever. This is a project that will link some of the largest municipalities in Northern Ireland, municipalities where it has its stagnation and unemployment during periods, but where it is now growing and willing to invest. The tunnel will tie the people of Averøy to the city of Kristiansund, and he will tie the city of Kristiansund tighter together with his surroundings southward. On the axis from the Tjeldbergodden, via Kristiansund to the Aukra and the Worm Lange plant, there is now an activity that you should look for long before you find it. Especially in the context of oil and gas business, there is now a value creation and a growth in the number of workplaces that can only be characterized by one word – formidable. This tunnel will strengthen the region and make it an even more common construction and labour market. To use the Worm Lange facility as an example: the processing and landing facility is located on the Aukra, but the field is to be controlled by Norske Shell from Kristiansund, where the same company already has the Draugenfield operational organisation. With the new connection, you can now run from Kristiansund to Aukra in about an hour. This makes it possible to huddle and work across municipalities in the region on the Outer North Sea and in the Outer Spacesdal. I have visited the relevant municipalities myself. I've met business in the region. I have listened to the people and to those who today depend on using the ferry. I know how long they've been waiting for what's going to happen here today. I also know how happy it is that the Storting today is making the necessary decision so that the project for which this community has been working for years will finally become a reality. It must be allowed to comment on the way this matter was handled by the previous government. The Labour Party has long believed that this connection had to be realised. However, in the previous period we had to ask for action on several occasions and ask if something happened. Then we experienced the strange thing that the previous government had a few days before the election held a press conference in Northern Ireland. There the then ruling parties performed to present it as if the Workers' Party were a threat to this project, and as if a government shift would prevent or delay it. It's now the opposite that's happened. Now we keep what we promise. I will praise all who have been with and made this possible, and there are many. I am proud of the work my own party has done in this matter, both locally and here in the house, and I am proud of the Government, which has now delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e268	I think the case rapporteur had a good presentation of the matter, and I think we agree on the content of the need for the Atlantic Tunnel. Of course, the Progress Party fully supports this. I still think there are a few points that you should point out when it comes to the facts in the matter. We've pointed this out with the basis for growth and the so-called one-time increase effect, and they say that the one-time growth is about 70 pst. I see that there are three professional environments that agree and believe in approx. 70 pst., but there are so-called doubts from multiple instances whether this is good enough to fully fund. We have no problems with the matter. We think it is very good that we now have proper and proper roads built in Norway, and support them well. But we believe this is a state task, and the law has also stated that it is a state task to finance the roads in Norway. When the government takes in approx. 50 billion kroner in taxes and taxes on cars and car-related taxes, we also believe that it is a government task to provide this funding, and therefore do not want to support the toll financing proposal. We want to take up again the minority proposal during the examination of the case, that this should be fully financed by the state. Of course, we hope to get full support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e277	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e280	This is a great day for Northern Moravia, especially for the people of Aver Island, who are now getting a continental connection to their city, Kristiansund. In the south, as is known, Aver Island is stuck with the success project Atlantic Road, which was also a local initiative – a toll project that has been disbursed, the bombs have been removed many years ago, and the share capital has been repaid in a decent way. It was close to 10 million. kr. It's something that characterizes both the Atlantic Road and the Atlantic Tunnel. Here's local initiative, here's local share company, and here's local capital. That's how we've been able to expand many important bottlenecks in this country in recent years, where the option is often vacation trips with eternal payment and eternal disadvantage for business and population. When local forces rise to the degrees, the projects, as in this case, would be lacking if we in this room were not to say yes – and I would add – thank you. Thank you for taking the strain financially when we do not have the power to solve these types of projects with ordinary means as quickly as an up-to-date business has the right to be competitive. Competitiveness is about mobility. It is just as little satisfactory to stand in a ferry queue or to be nightly isolated as to stand in line on an entry path to a city. The proceedings of the store in this case have been expeditiously expeditious. We have not even seen the need for neither consultation nor inspection. Think if we could do the same in all projects where private interests and business interests take risks and have costs, so we're going to expand this country. I'm not going to mention the name, but at least there is one project that we also have to deal with in the committee, which had tolerated non-discrimination with exactly the same reason. But don't let the dark hour, as it's called. The Atlantic Tunnel is soon a fact, because the people and the business community of the North Sea are making this possible. So in the future, let's give private people who choose to put their capital into projects that are strictly our responsibility, the propensity that they have to get their money back with a reasonable adjustment to the price rise. It does not happen in this case, and I regret that. That is why the Committee has made particular note of this, and I assume that the standard agreement which the Storting has been discussing will be followed hereafter. In conclusion, many people say that this is a Christmas present for Averøya and Kristiansund, but I want to say that it might as well be a Christmas present for us from the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e295	Today, we are taking an important step towards cooperation in the Kristiansund region. The fact that the Stortinget can finally approve the toll financing of the Atlantic Tunnel means that a tunnel that will provide better communication between Averøya and Kristiansund will be able to start building already next year and will help to strengthen the nutrient base and the bus bill for a large part of North Moravia. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this. The Atlantic Tunnel between Averøy and Kristiansund means a lot for the strengthening of Northern Moravia as a region. The target of the tunnel is, among other things, to facilitate the profitable and good development of business in the Kristiansund area. A 24-hour and ferry-free connection increases the competitiveness and opportunities of industry in Aver Island for development. The Christian People's Party hopes and believes that a tunnel will help stop moving and increase the chances of moving to the island. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, today, on the last meeting of the Stortingen in 2005, we have this decision made. It has been important for the project that it was approved in Stortinget as quickly as possible. The interest rate guarantee for the loans to finance the tunnel is due until 22 December and, if the project was not processed and approved before that time, it could have been more expensive. Good and predictable transport solutions are necessary for busses and businesses. The road network is a vital resource for regional and local development. And with this road project, we'll have better communication between Averøy and Kristiansund, which helps to strengthen the nutrient base and busses for a large part of North Moravia. Construction starts already in 2006 and the tunnel is expected to be completed in 2008. We're looking forward to that. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has worked on this project for a long time at local, regional and national level. I want to give honor to the Government so that they could present the case so that a person could treat it before Christmas. The co-operation agency would have presented this matter, but it was not correct until they had to leave. That's why I'm glad, when there was a government shift, that one got to treat this quickly, and that there's a bunch of stuff supporting this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e308	The Atlantic Tunnel holiday relief project will establish a permanent link between the outer North-Mear and the outer Romsdal and go between the municipalities of Averøy, Kristiansund and Frei. The work on realising this project has gone on for a long time, several decades. Local and regional politicians and the business community in the region have worked both hard and seriously to establish a strong road link between these municipalities in Northern Ireland. Toll applications were sent in July 2002, and I am very pleased that today, three and a half years later, Stortinget can give a clear signal for the launch of the Atlantic Tunnel. The continental relationship will have a very positive impact on the outer North Sea marshland, not least on the region’s potential to develop into a growing Bu and labour market region and to strengthen Kristiansund as a regional centre. With the ferry away and the tunnel in place, the district will be well connected, and both private and public supply will be expanded, which will be positive for both business and people most in the region. When it is related to the financing needs of about 815 million. SEK, tolls will amount to approximately 600 million. kr, and it is worth noting that the three municipalities of Averøy, Kristiansund and Frei provide an additional EUR 127 million. kr. It shows that this is a project that the community almost entirely pays for itself. As I said, I am pleased that we are today saying yes to the Atlantic Tunnel, but during the election campaign there were, to put it mildly, many strange plays in this case. In August, deaf tenants in the Committee on Transport declared that only the Stortinge was to be treated. This led to large media uploads in the local press. In September, the then ruling party left with the leader of Sponheim and the then state council of Skogsholm headed up to what I would call champagne party at Nordmøre, with new promises: The proposition was ready for treatment! There was a funny view, because just after the collapse option, the third and final message came from the Cooperation Management: The proposition was not ready to be processed in the Storting. I'm not going to dwell on the past, because the most important thing now is to look forward to the realisation of this project, which will give so much positive repercussions for the region. This is a project that the Centre Party has been actively working for both local, regional and national. I will give tribute to Minister Navarsete for the work that has been done to enable the matter to be dealt with on the last day of the autumn session. Similarly, I would like to commend the Committee on Rapid Reactions so that we can make a positive decision today. Finally, I would like to congratulate the municipalities of Frei, Kristiansund and Averøy in particular, and the region in general, on the decision we are making today. It's been a good job, and it's been a good job. I'm overconfident that the mainland relationship will have a positive impact on commuters, businesses and people most, and that all those who have invested so much in the project will experience that this will be a profitable investment, not least from a socio-economic point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e323	The Atlantic Tunnel is a transport project that was driven and initiated by the then Left rapporteur in the municipality of Averøy, Leif Helge Kongshaug. The project was laboriously worked out by local forces at Nordmøre. The project went first on rails, but experienced a sudden stoppage because of some other unfortunate projects. But thanks to vigorous efforts, not least from local forces in the North-Møre region, we can today be involved in adopting this unique transport project. The Atlantic Tunnel is a continuation and a realisation of the objective of building a fixed connection for the Aver Island in a southerly direction and passing northwards to Kristiansund. The project must be seen in the context of the Atlantic route, which has been a major success for the region. The Atlantic Tunnel will provide a fixed road link between the municipality of Averøy and Kristiansund and Frei municipalities on the North Sea in the construction of a subsea tunnel under the Bramnesfjord and connecting routes on Averøya and Kristiansund. The tunnel will improve communication between Averøya and Kristiansund and thus also strengthen Kristiansund as a regional centre. City and country are interdependent. It shall be good to live in scattered and urban areas. Both cities and towns have their own special challenges, which require good political solutions to transport. In the opinion of the Left, the Atlantic Tunnel is such a good solution. Large parts of the value creation takes place in the districts. With the Atlantic Tunnel, we are building up infrastructure that allows us to extract the value creation potential of rural resources and that makes it possible to develop new jobs. In the view of the Left, a modern district policy will facilitate the development of business, while at the same time providing public services to create diversity and attractive communities. This is what the Atlantic Tunnel will do. Access to risk capital and land disposal are also important premises for rural development. The municipalities of Averøy, Kristiansund and Frei have agreed to contribute a total of 127 million. kr. Banks and businesses in the area have so far agreed to advance a total of 6.4 million. kr. This is a strong local effort, where local authorities pay virtually all of the investment through local grants from municipalities, businesses and tolls. This is extraordinary! With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a cross-political agreement on the financing of the project. This testifies to a good cooperation between politicians and businesses locally that has led. So sadly, the Progress Party does not join the majority decision today, but continues its course away from the real-world political landscape. Finally, the Bondevik II Government considered the matter of the Atlantic Tunnel in detail. The matter had been advanced by the government of Bondevik in the fall if it had continued. The left, however, is pleased that the Stoltenberg Government is following up our transport policy priorities and promotes a positive proposal for the development and financing of R & D. 64 Braksnes–Kristiansund, the Atlantic Tunnel, in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e344	I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal on the partial toll-financed development of RV. 64 Bramnes–Kristiansund, the Atlantic Tunnel. The development of the Atlantic Tunnel will provide a fixed road link between the municipality of Averøy and Kristiansund and Frei municipalities by building a subsea tunnel under the Bramnesfjord and connecting roads on the Averøya and Kristiansund. The Atlantic Tunnel will improve communications between Averøya and Kristiansund and will help to strengthen the nutrient base and busses for a large part of North Moravia. The development of the road link will make it easier for the inhabitants of Aver Island to benefit from various services in Kristiansund, including air services at Kristiansund Airport. It is a great advance for a community that has so far been isolated from the outside world when the ferry stops going in the evening. The tolling period is a total of about 21 years, with 2 and 1/2 years in advance in the ferry line and 18 years in back. The recovery period has been reduced as a result of the tolling company having concluded an option agreement. In principle, the main rule for expropriation is 15 years. For the holiday termination project, the option is to actually pay tolls in the form of ferry tickets as long as the connection is maintained. There has been a strong local desire to replace the «permanent» payment on the ferry with a time-limited toll payment. The government believes that an extended toll period can be accepted for the Atlantic Tunnel. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee on Transport and Communications has been agreed in the Government's assessment. The costs of the Atlantic Tunnel have been estimated at 635 million. kr. Including capital costs for advance payments is the total financing need of approximately 815 million. kr. The funding is based on tolls, local bonuses, alternative use of ferry premiums, advance payments through local equity and ordinary government funds. Today's ferry service between Bramnes and Kristiansund is shut down. The proposed financing facility for the Atlantic Tunnel provides a solution with small ordinary State resources. It makes it possible to realize the project more quickly than would otherwise be possible within today's ordinary government national charts. I would like to commend local initiators and local people for their willingness to set up and ensure that whole Northern Moravia now has better communications, which will clearly mean much for the development of both business and busses, as I call it. The Committee does not comment that the payment of share capital is regarded as an ordinary advance in this matter, but addresses the issue on a general basis. The Ministry of Transport will review the practice of toll financing guidelines and return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis, including the issue of advance payments and share capital, in line with the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e362	As the Council of State was just about to attend, the Ministry of this matter adds to an interpretation of the share capital of toll companies, calls it gunning and compares it with, for example, municipal shooting. Only in More and Romesdal do we have other toll companies with relatively high share capital, for example the Eiksund connection with 2.8 million. kr, Ålesundstunnelen of 5,7 million. kr and the paid-up Atlantic route, which had a share capital of nearly 10 million. kr. This has been crucial to solving these important projects. When the Council of State now comes back with a case, she will ensure that one in future projects where private companies place equity capital in the company to get a public task solved, gets the money back with 80 pst. of the consumer price index, as previously determined by the Storting through its treatment of the standard contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e368	Halleraker referred to something instead that he called Stortinget's standard agreement. This one's unknown to me. What exists is the State Road Authority's 102 manual, which is a guide and refers to the toll project. Point 3.3.5. states that toll companies should be ideal enterprises. They shall not have the purpose of providing financial dividends. Toll company is a limited liability company. In order to create a limited liability company, a minimum amount of NOK 100000 must be recovered as a share capital. He can be repaid to the shareholders with a sum equal to paid-up share capital, adjusted by 8 pst. the changes in the SSB’s consumer price index. Increasing the share capital beyond what is necessary to operate the toll company is not in line with the current legislation of the Stortinget. That is why, in line with the comments of the Committee, I would like to put forward a matter that allows the Storting to discuss this in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e375	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e380	I would like to take this opportunity to express my great thanks to the government of Stoltenberg, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport themselves, who got the Atlantic Tunnel out of the dead water and then quit today and got the case promoted in time, among other things. to ensure the good financing for which the tolling company had proposed and had concluded agreements. I would also like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications very much, which was dealt with this matter very quickly and very well within a very short period of time. This road and tunnel project is very important to so many. Today, we have viable districts in Norway that are constantly dependent on competing with areas, both domestic and foreign, that have much simpler and cheaper transport solutions. The Atlantic Tunnel is of great importance for regional development, especially in the northern part of the Moors and Romesdal. It has a major impact on urban development in Kristiansund and developments in Averøya and Frei. It improves and facilitates transport and export opportunities for fish and other goods. It has a major impact on the development of a strong oil and gas region. The Aukra environment with the Worm Lange and the land site and the strong baseline environment in Kristiansund are linked in a way that gives stronger regional, county and country counts. The Atlantic Tunnel will also contribute to enhanced positive tourist development. As we have heard today, we're at Nordmøre, mainly ourselves, financing, that is. the community through tolls and historically large subsidies from the municipalities of Kristiansund, Frei and Averøy – with those 127 million. kr. Then I will give all credit to the initiators and promoters of the project, both on Averøya and in Kristiansund. Without a vigorous and unstoppable effort, the Storting could not today have made a decision to initiate the construction of the Atlantic Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e393	There is every reason to congratulate Mr Nordmøre on what is being crowned today by a co-conspirator's decision on the Atlantic Tunnel. It is the local effort that has been entirely decisive here, so they can thank themselves for coming so far today. But it has also been good work from the Communications Committee and from several government councils. When I take the word, it's not to repeat all the good things that many people have rightly said, but it was a reply that the Council of State just came along, that got me to start fooling a little bit. It is the practice one has had in many places to create creative funding, to create cheaper funding and to activate local communities and local companies in road construction. Then we have had it one could call a standard agreement, or a manual, it doesn't matter that much, but we have had a code that has made it possible for local toll companies to contribute in a very constructive way in this construction. Now I perceive that the council suggested that one would not open up to this in the future. The council wanted to file a case, and I perceive it as being aimed at tightening it up. Then I thought it reasonable to ask the question: Does the Council think it would be right to try to prevent large local initiatives, for example. in things like the ones we've seen now, where eternal tolls are replaced by tolls a few years, and where one tries to get as reasonable a funding as possible? Since the Council of State raised some doubts, I would like her to elaborate on this, so that we do not get a stop to the good work done by the local stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e400	There is absolute reason to join the congratulations that go to Northern Ireland today. But it's a monkey that doesn't get named, and it's also an insider's office. It is the guarantee liability that is placed on the county council in More and Romesdal. It's a county that had to happen in ours on one thing when it's about traffic, just walking and cycling. We know that Moore and Romsdal are on approx. SEK 15 billion in investment needs for tunnels. So there's no doubt that if one uses the creativity and imagination of building tunnels, it goes beyond what we call another type of transportation. And should this guarantee liability once in the future be triggered, the further weakening of More and Romsdal states' ability to operate in a broad way. Creativity has been mentioned. We need to be aware that the previous major project near a city in More and Romesdal, the Ålesund tunnels, led to such creativity that it is forbidden to take a boat from Valderøy to Ålesund. Why? Yes, because of course everyone's going down the tunnel. What kind of tunnel are we talking about? Well, we're talking about a tunnel that today has a debt of $1.5 billion, which increases every day that goes. It is never possible to pay down those tunnels. I'm not going to name those who went bankrupt by banks and financial institutions, which means there's a huge debt drain there. But we're also going to bring us on such a happy day for the North Sea that it's not just. It may be that warranty liability is triggered, and it may be that this affects other important transport tasks in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e409	In the case of a toll company, I instead said that the share capital would go to operate the toll company according to the State Road Administration's manual, which is based on decisions made in this room. The big deal about tolls went early in the 1990s. There have been many adjustments in the Storting since then. That's why they're gathering in the State Road Authority's manual. I would like to repeat that in paragraph 3.3.5, as I said before, the use of the share capital is indicated. One has shown creativity, and I've been told that it's in More and Romsdal this creativity has flourished. I very much appreciate creativity and don't want to go home, but it is clear that the Storting must be aware that the legislation that Storting itself has adopted is being followed up. To the extent that it is not done, or if one bypasses it, it will lead to different treatment for different types of projects. Where one has formed a toll company and advances funds by increasing the share capital, one type of refund is granted. Where there are other types of projects such as municipalities or other advances – but not through a toll project – one will not be reimbursed that capital in the same way. And if one by increasing the share capital actually means advances through it, at least it has to be cleaned up, and the Storting has to say that it is what one wants to do. Then it's a good thing. Therefore, this becomes one of several elements in a matter that I would like to present to the Stortinget, where Stortinget will discuss the arrangements of a toll project to clarify some things. I don't think at least our regional road offices and others who handle this in the first instance, would be happy that we get a clean-up on this, that we get a case where we gather the threads again and become some in this room about the criteria to apply and that of course will give equal treatment to all types of projects throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e418	I interpret the Council of State positively. I choose to do that, because I think she knows that she is concerned that locals will have the opportunity to both influence and participate in and promote projects. With regard to this particular topic, which may have to be considered a topic of particular interest – perhaps not so many people remember the story in it either – I would like to state that I am familiar at least that Stortinget has never dealt with the State Road Administration's manual. But Stortinget has dealt with the premises for the standard agreement, and I thought the manual was written on that basis. But this we get plenty of opportunity to come back to. I see no reason to extend the debate today on this point. I think that if we think a little bit about and are a little reasonable about how to maintain the good local initiative and participation of private people around the whole country, we need to find a system that ensures this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e427	Only to be quite clear about this: Of course, the Stortinget has not dealt with the Statens vägvesen's manual. But it is made on the basis of different decisions in Stortinget, first in the so-called big case that was early in the 1990s. Later, there have been many settings from the Storting, in the budget and in individual cases, which have, of course, helped to change the premises, and which have made it necessary for the State Road Administration to collect them in a manual to get an overview. That's what's going on, and that's the manual I'm referring to, which is then built on the Stortinget's decisions. And that's where there's now some ambiguity about this point, and that's the ambiguities I want to clear up and give the Storting a chance to discuss later, in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e432	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1056]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e448	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1056]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e464	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1056]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e480	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1057]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e496	The background to this case is that we, as you know, in Norway have very high fuel charges. In addition, this year it's a moment, a factor, that we have a rising crude oil price, which has also given the consumer an extra high price. When it comes to the rising crude oil price, there are two ratios. The only thing is that consumers have to pay a higher price when they are buying petrol and diesel, and the second is that because of the rising crude oil price, the state has got a much larger surplus than the base. So in the current year, an excess of over 80 billion dollars is going to be higher than one expected, because of the oil price development. We believe that it should have been possible at least to reduce the fuel charge, so that the fuel price, both on petrol and on diesel, would be roughly equivalent to that when the state budget for 2005 was agreed. Of course, we wanted him to be even lower than that. But at least it should have been that a price was getting down to that level. We find that the other parties are not willing to assess this, are not willing to make decisions about it. Of course, that's what we think is gross – it's always wanted to get into the minority – but it may not be so surprising that this was the result. Finally, I would like to record the proposal of the Progress Party in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e507	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1059]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e525	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1059]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e542	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1059]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e560	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1060]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e576	On Stortingen's last meeting day before the Christmas holidays, we're going to deal with the effusion. There are many ways in which the ‘hour of settlement’ has arrived. The government's revenue and expenditure estimates are now to be adapted to what we think is going to be the result, and so we don't have to wait in suspense until the government's accounts come in the new year. After all, the size has the privilege of first examining the budget for the coming year in December of the previous year, then revising the budget in June, and then finishing the year by adjusting the budget to the actual revenue and expenditure estimates. I point out that the oil-corrected deficit is now estimated at NOK 70.6 billion, which represents a reduction in the deficit of DKK 3.7 billion since the budget was adopted in the autumn of 2005. In previous years, the deviation has been even greater. For the income of the country, estimates have been even less accurate. The net cash flow from the petroleum activity is now estimated at NOK 283 billion, which is DKK 78,5 billion higher than in the 2005 balanced budget. This means that you per. Today it is estimated that nearly DKK 80 billion more will be paid in revenues from the petroleum industry than was assumed when the national budget was adopted last December. The net cash flow is even nearly NOK 23 billion more than what the Stortinge budgeted for in June this year. As the Progress Party sees it, this shows in an excellent way that budgeting on the crown and believing that you're hit exactly, can't be done. This, therefore, also substantiates our claim that it is actually possible to allow a slightly more extensive use of the state’s income than it considers to be appropriate at all times, and that alternative placements of funds, for example in assets rather than fund placements abroad, can be allowed. When the Progress Party has said that we can make some reasonable investments without jeopardizing the dollar and interest rates, it usually has a number of counter-arguments from the other parties. But when we are dealing with the effusion today, the uncertain estimates of government income and expenditure show that it is actually possible to allow a different disposal from what was believed the year before. We can see that when the budget is phased out, it is obviously not as important to deal with the same rigour as in the original budget. The undersigned therefore notes that the rule of action does not prevent the actual use of oil money to a greater extent than is proposed in the ordinary State budget. The comment in today's setting from the previous government parties is also strange. We can see from the setting the following comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘These members are surprised that the Progress Party has still not taken over the fact that the use of oil money affects the interest rate and the exchange rate.’ [[...]] This note becomes extra strange all the time when the three batches in the current suspension are actually involved in major changes to the budget in several areas, as regards both the estimate of what the State will actually receive from oil revenue for 2005 and new expenditure to be allocated. In fact, it is not just the current government estimate of income and expenditure that is the facsimile of what can be allowed to be used. The recent ageing shows with all clarity the points of the Progress Party over several years. Let me then comment on some of the issues in the proposition from the Government. The estimate of total tax revenue from mainland Norway in the current budget has increased by approx. NOK 35.3 billion. The revenue from the tobacco tax is proposed to be down-adjusted by 9.1 pst. In this context, I would like to note that the Government does not have good figures for the sale of tobacco through border trade, tax free or smuggling. The government should therefore be more interested in the relationship between the loss of taxable turnover and the amount of the charges. The proceeds of the one-off charge for motor vehicles are proposed to be adjusted by a whole of 13,4 p.m., without leaving a comment from the Government. Let me refer to cap. 732 Item 81 Grants for large construction projects. I notice that the Government proposes to grant NOK 2.9 billion over the current year's budget instead of following the Storting decision to grant these funds over a period of three years. The Progress Party is somewhat surprised by this proposal, all the time when the size of the budget for 2006 has just been dealt with. Appropriations of this size should be managed in the form of appropriations for next year's government budget. After the debates that have been in recent years, where one suggests that one can spend no more than an exact amount of money determined by the government at all times, in order to avoid inflation and interest rise, this appropriation by the Government is put into a somewhat strange light. But when that is said, this appropriation is of course supported by the Progress Party. This again shows our point that we can actually make sensible investments domestically without jeopardising the economic development of the country. In the context of today's case, the Progress Party proposes that the State should cancel NOK 1 billion of the hospital's debts. We believe it is unfortunate that the government does not erase any of the hospital debt. We fear that the consequence is that this will in the next round go beyond patient treatment, as the requirement for balance by the end of 2006 is established. In order to improve the financial situation of hospitals, we propose the cancellation of parts of the hospital debt. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e611	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e614	I have just a few brief comments relating partly to the proposal put out by the Progress Party today, but also to the statements by the representative Ulf Leirstein, which I believe clearly show that the Progress Party has not understood why it is important to show moderation in the use of oil money from what we now call the State pension fund. The problem is not that, as the representative Leirstein says, you can't budget on the crown. The problem is that the Progress Party will always want to grant something more. It's when you're always going to give something more for a lot of purposes, that you're going to help increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy. When the Right is concerned with showing a detention unit in the use of the money from the Pension Fund, it is linked to two relationships. It is related to the fact that we are concerned that those who come after us should have the best possible starting point and be better able to finance our pensions. It is also linked to the importance of pursuing policies that do not increase the pressure on interest rates. It's social to show withholding money from the Pension Fund, not only because low interest rates are important for families with large loans, but also for those who come after us. It is not that only the former and current government parties are concerned with showing restraint, but everyone who follows the Norwegian economy, whether it is the OECD or others, is asking – not necessarily asking for, but recommending – that there be a restraint in the use of the money from the Pension Fund, with exactly the same justification as I have now given. So the Progress Party is quite isolated from its theories of increased use of money. With regard to the proposal that the Progress Party has delivered today, to grant money so that social welfare beneficiaries can receive a thousand more copies during Christmas, it is not difficult to sympathise with that proposal. I think that everyone who follows and is part of the big Christmas trade has great sympathy that people who live on a worse economic basis than most of us do, and who are poor, and especially those with children, could have needed to have something more liberal this time before Christmas. But it is a little special that the Progress Party is promoting this proposal in the new era, and that this is not a proposal that the Progress Party has made in the past. When the Right chooses to go against this, there are two reasons for it. Firstly, we believe that it is right that the municipalities should be responsible for social assistance, and we know that very many municipalities take into account that everyone is in a slightly special situation just before Christmas. Many municipalities show slightly more liberality in December than they do in December. We believe that the municipalities are closer to making that assessment than the state is. Secondly, the Government itself has announced that a review of welfare arrangements should be carried out. On the right, we would recommend that this review also look at this proposal. It could be that there should be some stronger leads in relation to the payment of social assistance, especially in connection with Christmas. So, with the reason and the wish that this should be assessed by the Government in the review you're going to have, I would recommend that the Right Magnifying Group go against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e632	I have realized that on the last working day of Stortingen you will try not to debate too much. But it'll be quite tempting when we end up in this debate again – we've done it sometimes in the autumn. So now the Progress Party is being accused by the representative Sanner that we want more for all kinds of purposes. It's not that many weeks since we had the debate on the state budget, and then we were accused of being completely inhuman and completely hopeless, because of all the places we kiss. So there's going to be something hidden in that argument. It is strange to refer to the State pension fund, as it should now be called correctly, without any reference to it, but now you have the opportunity to vote on it later today. With the proposal of the Progress Party for next year, the State pension fund would be transferred NOK 300 billion, while with the scheme adopted, it would transfer NOK 316 billion. Does the representative believe that what makes the difference between today's situation and today's interest rate and a doomsday situation is 16 billion dollars in difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e643	I don't believe in doomsday, at least not right before Christmas, and I don't think that a proposal to spend 16 to 20 billion kroner more next year, as the Progress Party suggests, will mean some doomsday in the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, it won't. But it is now all the same that everyone who follows the Norwegian economy is of the opinion that increasing the use of oil money – if you choose to call it the State pension fund, as we do, or the oil fund, as the Progress Party does – will lead to increased pressure and increased interest rates. There is no doubt that this is an unsocial policy. Increased interest rates hit families with children, and it hits people with large loans. It's also the case that the population's security is underfunded. There is a need for more money in the Pension Fund, not less, as the Progress Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e650	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e653	First, a small line to the representative, Sanner. There will be very little Christmas presangs of sympathy. Right-wing probably have great sympathy with those who receive social assistance, but it helps very little, at least this Christmas. This morning I had a phone call with the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation to talk a little about the bank’s loans in 2005. It turns out that per cent. In October 2004, banks had DKK 1 289 billion in loans, while in October 2005 there was DKK 1 467 billion. So it's going to be an increase of approx. DKK 180 billion. These $180 billion is 100 billion more than estimated, and it was essentially an increase for households, at $13. This has resulted in 1.1 pst. real price growth. The interest rate has been stable low, the exchange rate has been stable, and business has gone well. In other words, a dramatic increase in lending has not been recorded as having a negative impact on the Norwegian domestic economy, and in any case has not put the Norwegian economy at risk. What else does that testify about? It testifies that finance is not exactly science, and that producing all uses beyond the government's estimates as irresponsible is at best arrogant, and possibly unknowingly. All of this is in stark contrast to the many warnings that the other parties came with when the Progress Party wanted to invest a few billion dollars in infrastructure and necessary material for schools, police, hospitals and defense. I also have to repeat what Mr Leirstein said, because this is also in stark contrast to the comment in the position of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are trying to teach the Progress Party in economic policy. In fact, more and more economists and financial environments are supporting the economic thinking of the Progress Party. It's probably sad for the right, but it should take the right inward. It is therefore to hope that the other non-socialist parties will gradually release the coercion imposed on them by the Ministry of Finance when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e666	I would like to take the floor to comment on the proposal put forward today by the Progress Party. It is a well-known case that the government parties are adherents to increasing the social assistance rates, as set out in the Government Declaration. We might find it a little special that this is one thing that was not addressed when the committee dealt with this, but that it gets over the table and really offers little opportunities for the different parties to properly evaluate these proposals. In any case, we are attached to the fact that people will have more to walk with in connection with Christmas, and this is also a practice in several of the country's municipalities. Both in Oslo and Bergen, and in other municipalities that I know, there is a practice in which social assistance rates and payments are increased precisely in connection with Christmas. I hope that this in the future, both when dealing with the poverty message, and when dealing with the NAV reform – as we see the Progress Party proposing to anticipate a little here today – can mean a further commitment from the Progress Party in that particular area. So neither in Bergen nor in Oslo has the Progress Party been a driver for increasing social assistance rates as other developments, but they are making a proposal on the table here about a very special Christmas payment. We want a comprehensive review of the work done to the poor, in the context of the poverty message that we will be making in the next year, and a comprehensive review of how this is to be organised, when we are going to deal with the new welfare state. At the same time, we encourage municipalities all over the country to be helpful at these Christmas times and to make the individual assessment to the individual recipient and applicant for social assistance to ensure that the poor in this country too will be able to celebrate Christmas and afford presangers and to afford Christmas dinner, in a decent and decent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e677	I will also be allowed by the Christian People's Party to comment on the proposals. We will not support them, even if the intentions of the proposals are good. But as mentioned by the representative Holmås, the government has announced a review of the welfare arrangements. I myself outside this house have been in debate with the Minister of Finance on that very topic. Then we'll see if what was said, as well as being followed up in action afterwards. I'd say I'm a little surprised, because where the Progress Party is able to do something about the bets, they haven't done anything with them. So in this city, where the Progress Party is with the Social Agency, it was the Christian People's Party and the Left who in the budget negotiations made sure that there was an increase in social assistance. This was not part of the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Then it is nice for the Progress Party here in the house to note that other parties in the case contribute to the satisfaction of those who wish to benefit from the proposals available here, but not initially with the help of the Advance Party itself. So it's also the way that more people have been talking about, that flexibility is demonstrated by the social offices before Christmas. There are also practices in very many of the urban areas that are in this city. We hope that they do that, that you don't look at this statically. The Social Services Act is not static, nor should it be. When it comes to Sanner's perception of Judgment Day, I'd rather come back to it on another occasion, as we approach another celebration, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e689	It is heard from some of the speeches here that the Progress Party has trotted on some sore toes. In a few days it is Christmas, and most travel home from Stortinget to celebrate a hopefully quiet and peaceful Christmas. Of course, it can be that not all of us achieve it. To the extent that it should happen, it is not because we lack food in the fridge or money for Christmas presents. We're so lucky, along with most people in this country, that we're fed, so we don't have any trouble in Christmas. Unfortunately, it's not like this for everyone. Some people go into Christmas without food in the refrigerator and cannot afford to buy packages for their closest guests. Worse, of course, for those who have little children, and who can't afford to give them Christmas gifts like their friends get. I'm talking about the 135,000 people in Norway who receive social assistance in the world's richest country. In the Christmas month it is such that all employees get a little extra to go with by Christmas through that they get half the tax in December. This means that they get their net purchasing power increased by approx. 25 pst. It is just that they should be able to use a little extra for Christmas, both in order to buy Christmas presents for their closest guests, in order to be able to decorate the house a little by Christmas and to enjoy good Christmas food. Social assistance recipients do not pay taxes on what they receive in social assistance. They only get the most needed living. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that in order to avoid this group and its family a little bit of what we think is given, this group will increase the payment for Christmas by 25 pst., or at the top of 1000 kroner, which it will amount to. It's not the whole world, but it can help make up what's going on to make this group enjoy a peaceful Christmas, like the rest of us. The Labour Party and, in particular, SV have held the tab high for poverty reduction. In the election campaign, there was no way they would do what if they got the power. They've got power, but so far they haven't lifted a single finger to do anything to keep their word. So words can now be turned into action with the proposals of the Progress Party for a decision. So in terms of being a social welfare beneficiary, the State Institute for Consumer Research, SIFO, calculated that the norm for living a decent life must be $6500 a month. So the social welfare code is $4,140. Karin Andersen said in Stavanger Aftenblad that «people can try to make it for 4140 kroner a month». So now SV has the opportunity to vote in favour of a proposal that can make the part that needs the most, the ones that are the lowest on the ranking ladder, get a lift. The choice is quite simple. It is said to put either NOK 316 billion or NOK 315,830 billion into the Pension Fund for the Norwegian population to have a good old age. But there's some people who are out here today who need that help right now. Then it is not useful to say, as Mr Sanner does, that they have sympathy for the proposal. It is that there is not one refrigerator in this country that is being filled with food by sympathy. There won't be one package under the Christmas tree of sympathy. That requires money. That money can give the majority in this hall if they want it. Obviously, the will for action is not present, but the will to make opinions and words is quite strong in this Chamber. I am also reasonably impressed after being a little over eight years in this room and heard the Right Talk about the pressure in the economy. I think it's not going to be much pressure in the economy if we give those who are at the bottom of the ladder a little bit extra for Christmas and food in the fridge. It is amazing to hear that the rule is still being asserted, after sitting in a right-dominated government that has broken the rule of action to those degrees, without interest being increased. It is also stated in Stavanger Aftenblad that Karin Andersen says that the fight against poverty is her major political project. And she's the head of the social committee. I wonder what's going on with her little projects, if the big projects break out this way, you don't lift a finger and do some things. In our proposal No. 4 calls for social assistance to be made a state responsibility, as SV also wants, in the context of the treatment of New Labour and Welfare Administration, NAV. It is also stated in Stavanger Aftenblad that the head of the Social Committee of Stortinget, Karin Andersen of SV, will raise and legislate the social aid rates and make the aid state-owned. I wonder if that's what's going to happen now in the future. In any case, this proposal is also here, and SV has full opportunity to vote on it if that is what they want. Or are there any more words here that are meant for party speeches? But in order not to be a brake on the adoption of what is really important, namely to increase social assistance rates in Christmas, there is no link between proposals No. Two, three, four. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 2, 3 and 4, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e717	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e720	I refer you to the review of redeployments in the 2005 budget in the individual positions of the various Scientific Committees in Stortinget and the debate that has taken place in Stortinget on this subject, and to the position of the Financial Committee to be discussed here today. During the last day of the harvest session, there is reason to note that we have had a slightly different budgetary procedure in the autumn than we had in previous years. In terms of content, we have adopted a budget where we have chosen to prioritise well-being rather than taxation. But we have also seen a different process, by having a clear majority in the Storting, which has made the treatment coherent on the basis of the Government's proposal and the decision taken by the Stortinge on the 2006 budget. During the last year and during the year, we have had a number of discussions on the 2005 budget. I have not registered that the Progress Party has at any time committed itself to an increase in social assistance rates for the December month of 2005. We have had a broad discussion of the 2006 budget. I have not registered that the Progress Party has at any time called for us to facilitate a specific increase in social assistance rates for December 2006. On the other hand, in recent years I have recorded that the Progress Party has made significant cuts in areas that create problems for those who have financial difficulties. Most typically, the unemployment benefit is cut, which implies a reduction in the income base for those who are unemployed for one year, of around NOK 25 000. But also in the budget we have just gone through for 2006, we see cut off from the Progress Party. The daily allowance was cut by over DKK 1 billion, Aetat cut by SEK 565 million. kr, labour market measures of 472 million. SEK, additional social benefits for persons over the age of 67 are cut by 157 million. kr, etc. Then it is that economic social assistance is a discretionary theme that is assessed by the individual municipality. Let me stress very strongly what several of the speakers have said, that it is important that the municipalities in their judgement exercise facilitate that those who have financial problems should be able to celebrate Christmas and other celebrations in a dignified way. Therefore, we assume that the municipalities will facilitate this through the exercise of their discretion, and I record this fact that the Minister of Labour and Integration has also expressed it in the media today. However, it is also important to facilitate the provision of economic space for municipalities to contribute to a better welfare situation for the population of the municipality. And what has shaped the budgetary procedure in the autumn is that the majority of the majority in the United Kingdom have gone in to increase the free revenues of municipalities to NOK 5.7 billion. It is not the case that the Progress Party has been the driving force for increasing the area of action of the municipalities, so that they should have an increased basis also to strengthen welfare policy towards those with the greatest economic problems. The Labour Party, like the other parties that form the basis of the new government, believes that the most important thing is to remove the causes of poverty. That means that we need a more focused policy to create work. The contribution of the Progress Party has not been to facilitate the strengthening of labour market measures. On the contrary, they have gone in to reduce them. The contribution of the Progress Party has not been to improve the economic situation of those who have unemployment benefits and who have to live on them. On the contrary, they have cut dramatically. In the other area, which is particularly important in relation to those who have financial problems with regard to housing, I have not registered that the Progress Party is the driver of e.g. strengthening the House Bank’s arrangements – on the contrary. The new government will present an action plan on poverty in 2006. We have already seen a strong strengthening of the measures during the short period that the Government had at its disposal to present its additional proposal. Further measures have been announced next year. It is not the case that the Progress Party has been the driver in these cases. On the contrary, the policy that the speakers of the Progress Party have addressed today would create increased economic problems and more poor ones. Firstly, because of an economic policy that would lead to an increase in the cost pressure in the economy and to an increase in the number of unemployed in the competitive part of the economy. This would create increased economic problems. And the answer of the Progress Party is that they've cut the unemployment paycheck. Secondly, it would lead to an increase in interest rates, and that would be good and good for those of the Advance Party's voters who have a lot of money in the bank and would have increased interest income. But if we worry about those who have economic problems and who have problems coping with their debt burden, the result of the Progress Party's policy is that they would have a significantly more difficult economy. I also register that after the last municipal election, the Progress Party has become a member of several municipalities. In municipalities where the Progress Party is in a dominant position and has the rapporteur, it is not that the Progress Party is the driver in order to improve the situation of those receiving financial social assistance. Take Nøtterøy as an example. There are low rates of economic social assistance. Proposals have been made several times in the local government to increase them, but it is not the case that the Progress Party has supported them. On the contrary, the Progress Party has ensured that the proposals have been put to a vote, and Nuttøy is not a poor municipality that has major financial problems and is listed on the Robek list. Nuttøy Municipality has profits and economic space to be able to increase rates of social assistance if you want. But the Progress Party has not wanted it, because they have not been willing to prioritize it. At the end of this debate, I think it is natural to note that, in recent years, the Progress Party has made massive cuts which have led to greater problems for those who have financial problems. The policy of the Progress Party will mean that the economic problems of those with economic difficulties will increase, that there will be more poverty and that there will be higher interest rates. In those municipalities where they have the opportunity to exercise their discretion in terms of economic social assistance, the Progress Party has not been a driver for increasing social assistance rates. On the contrary, we see several examples of the opposite – that their majority have made sure to keep them down. The Progress Party did not propose to increase the rates of social assistance during the examination of the budget and the follow-up for 2005, they did not propose it during the examination of the 2006 budget, they did not propose it during the last review of the 2005 budget we have just discussed, and they did not propose it in the Committee's suspension of the new age, which is the basis for today's consideration. Then it can always be good to think of better thoughts. And one should adjust quite significantly to get some of the things done in other areas corrected. I find that the new government has as one of its main ambitions to remove the causes of poverty and thus facilitate people's living a better life. This will also be followed up by the action plan that will be presented in the next year. With this I recommend the setting of the committee. We are concerned that the municipalities show reasonable discretion in the context of economic social assistance, so that those who have financial problems are given the financial opportunity to celebrate Christmas in a proper way. The municipalities must contribute to this. This is one of the reasons why the new government is helping to strengthen the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e768	Even representatives of the Progress Party hardly take the word ‘Fremskrittsparteit’ as many times in their mouths as they stand on this pulpit, as the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen now did. Had I not listened to the contents of what he said, I had almost become a bit touched. We could have had a long debate about what actually helps the unemployed. I record that some people have a very strong belief that only labour market measures are helping them, while the Progress Party wants an offensive industrial policy and focuses on reduced taxes, such as: provide a better framework for business so that more people can keep a job and more people can get into a job. Otherwise, the debate is a bit strange. According to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, it is now the case that those who are allegedly engaged in this matter will vote against increasing the rates, while those who are allegedly not engaged will vote in favour. Is it true that it is only because it is the Progress Party that is promoting this proposal that you do not want to vote in favour of what Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen has allegedly committed himself very much in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e777	I record that what I'm saying is touching the representative, Leirstein. The Party's industrial policy means that there will be a massive loss of jobs in the competitive sector due to the fact that the level of costs will increase to such an extent that the competitive business will be uncompetitive and that a significant number of jobs will therefore be affected by bankruptcy. Those who are then unemployed are affected by the contribution of the Progress Party to the adoption of a significant cut in unemployment benefits, which the new government is now seeking to rectify. So it's the municipalities that set the rates for social assistance. It's not the Stortinge who decides. The majority of the population in the United Kingdom has followed up the Government's proposal to strengthen the local government economy. It gives municipalities greater space to also assess measures in this area. We believe that it is important to help those who have financial problems to have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas in a proper and dignified way. I hope that the municipalities in which the Progress Party sits with the rapporteur will also contribute to this. They haven't done it that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e786	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e789	To the representative Heikki Holmås: This is therefore not a proposal for a general increase in social assistance rates. The Progress Party also recognises that it has quite different consequences than a one-off measure. This is a once-in-a-lifetime measure to help people who have it hurt at Christmas. That's what we're talking about – a one-time measure that will cost estimated 170 million. kr or five hours of revenue from the North Sea petroleum activity. That's what we're talking about. We'd like to come back to the Progress Party to discuss a general increase in social assistance rates, but we're talking about a concrete uplift to those who have the worst, to those who are the lowest on the rank ladder, those who SV talked so much about in the election campaign. And then they say here in the hall that it's unprofessional. Some people probably think it's populist. Then they say that it's impossible to get something done in the short term, and then you won't reach the target audience. Yes, you can find many excuses for not helping. One can sympathise with the proposal. You have to review it in the long term. But is it unprofessional to act quickly? Is it populistic to want the weakest people to have a worthy Christmas? Or is there anything else behind it, that you have your time phases, so you can't act quickly, because it doesn't fit in with the style of the department or the way of the Storting? Or is it not true of the party that is promoting the proposal? I have my own experience from the department. I know that it is possible to turn around very quickly. When you want, when it's political will, you can actually do something overnight. The political will is obviously not present here, but it will certainly be very much political will that day the red-green government is promoting something for the Storting. Then there'll be a lot of boasting from this pulpit, but it doesn't help much for those who suffer in this Christmas. So let's accept, then, that a lot of the money we're proposing doesn't go to ribs, Christmas presangs or Christmas trees. Maybe someone will drink them up, maybe someone will play them away -- what do we know? The point is that we're going to give them the dignity back, and that they can get to dispose of a little bit more, as we can all in December before Christmas. That's the goal of this. State Council Hanssen stated on TV last Sunday that there was not enough time to help this group before Christmas – it was Sunday – but the government was going to see what it could do for next Christmas. To say that Christmas comes at the same time every year, and it may not have been so very surprising that Christmas came now in 2005, nor for the Council of State Hanssen. It is no longer possible, as the government has done a number of times, to apologize for the lack of time in the government offices. It was known that this would come. It was known that this matter would come. You knew that the media would take this up, because they do it every Christmas. This is what SV knew. The Workers' Party knew that. And the Center Party knew that. It is not useful to be surprised on TV a few days before Christmas and say that we did not understand and did not know. 40 kroner after regular expenses have been paid, for food and Christmas presangs and Christmas trees, as it was produced, the truth is for many people. You can actually vote in favour of the proposal in this Chamber today and show that you want to do something for those who are the lowest on the ranking path – not only in words, but also in action. My appeal to the Government and government parties is to show generosity and action. Do not worry about who has promoted this proposal! We don't even have to mention it if you vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e814	It's said by several here that it's the municipalities that set the social assistance rates. The majority in Stortinget assume that municipalities do so in such a way as to provide a proper and worthwhile Christmas celebration for those who have financial problems. Then the Progress Party is concerned that social aid rates should be increased, and that the Storting should instruct it. Will the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the Group of the Progressive Alliance now guarantee that in all the municipalities where the Progress Party has the rapporteur, the social aid rates will be increased by 25 p.m. in December.? There is full opportunity to do so in each municipality if you want to, not least in municipalities with a financial surplus, such as: municipalities governed by the Progress Party. Nut Island is one example of that. Will he give such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e822	Firstly, the representative, Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, spoke about the general increase. The Progress Party has not taken a decision on the general social assistance increase. We're talking about these 25 psts. which shall be in December. We in Stortinget have the opportunity to grant an additional grant. The municipalities out there are budgeting with the money they have, and the money they're being allocated. We're not going to charge them any additional expenses. We have a booming petroleum fund, pension fund, or whatever it is, of NOK 1,200 billion that we can reduce to help those who are the weakest, so that they can also benefit from living in the world's best country to live in, and feel that they are part of it. There is nothing to push over to the municipalities. It's petty if you push it over to the municipalities. We can do it in this room, and I urge everyone again to vote in favour of this proposal. It's social, and it's good for those who are the weakest quieter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e829	So that's not what I was asking. I found that the municipalities in which the Progress Party is in control have the full opportunity to increase social assistance rates. The new majority in Stortinget has ensured the strengthening of the economy of the municipal sector, so that municipalities that already have profits initially, such as some of the municipalities where the Progress Party rules, have the opportunity to do so. And I ask: will the Progress Party guarantee that the municipalities where the Progress Party has rapporteurs will implement what the Progress Party is proposing today? I assume that this is a natural consequence of what lies as the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e834	Schjøtt-Pedersen invites to bureaucratic polemics. What we're talking about is granting it here and now – don't push it over to the municipalities. I cannot give any guarantee on behalf of all the local government boards of the Advance Party in relation to what they want to do with the extra money. They will go to care for the elderly, and there are a number of other measures that we also prioritise. I cannot give any guarantee about it. But that does not prevent us from taking responsibility here today. We are the national parliament of the country. We can do it here by voting in favour of the proposal. It can't be so hard to understand that these 170 million. rather than building up the Petroleum Fund, the pension fund, and buying shares in Coca-Cola and Chevrolet, as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e841	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e844	We are going to end this debate now, and it is very clear that the proposal of the Progress Party will not have a majority. One of the reasons why it's completely obvious. It's because it's just been treated that way the Progress Party often deals with its cases, that's by the input method. We can't deal with such a big and important thing as this. It's not like we're solving the poverty problems in Norway once, as Christian Tybring-Gjedde spoke about. If we are to solve the poverty problems in Norway, we must work seriously and in the long term. We have to raise the general social aid rates, which the government parties have laid down in their government statement, and which Kenneth Svendsen had in mind in his post in the meantime, but which Christian Tybring-Gjedde spoke of not being important at all. The general rates of social assistance have to rise, and that's one of the things that we have inside. We have arranged for an increase in the revenues of municipalities in the next year's budget, which the Progress Party has also concluded. But the Progress Party has said in its budget that one wanted to earmark money for care for the elderly, and one wanted to earmark money for school. They said nothing about earmarking money for the poor, so that people would have more money than Christmas. This is something that comes to the hall here today, not after inviting the government parties to attend and discuss this, but on the contrary by presenting this in the media over the table. I say, if we're going to be able to solve the poverty problems, we have to do it properly through serious and long-term work. And if these are new notes from the Progress Party, we invite them in the context of the poverty message, which we are going to deal with during the coming year, to discuss precisely social aid rates, make sure they get up on a decent level, and how we organize work against poverty. But we do not do so by the fact that the Progress Party is making a proposal before noon. 9 a.m. over the table at Stortinget's last meeting day before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e853	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e856	The representative Heikki Holmås thinks I must be embarrassed when he now stands on this pulpit. This is all he was against when he went into politics, namely to hide behind that it's difficult, it takes a long time, it's bureaucracy, it's obstacles, and it's unprofessional, while he when I met him in the election campaign, said exactly the same thing as me: agree, we have to get ahead of this, we have to do it quickly. This proposal comes from real problems presented in the media on Sunday. Call the proposal unprofessional, but that is the case. We ask SV again to join a one-off cost of SEK 170 million. NOK to help the weakest people, nothing else. That's what we're asking for. We're not talking about the general rates. There is another debate, which has greater consequences, which requires investigations, we agree on that. We're asking for these 170 million. kr to help those who need it the most. Does SV want to be in on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e863	We have shown, through the first budget we have submitted, that we are actually turning words into action. We have more than doubled the investment in poverty treatment. We have provided more money to the municipalities, which will mean that more people will get more money in social assistance during the coming year, precisely because we have given the economic space for which the Progress Party has not taken the initiative. They have opposed the cuts in several of the welfare benefits received by the same people. That's the way we want to work: concretely, turn words into action, long-term and holistically, not once. That's not the way we fight poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e868	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e871	First I will comment on what Heikki Holmås says. He says we have increased the appropriations for the municipalities. That's right, that's what the Progress Party has been in on. We have earmarked funds for what we thought was right to spend the money for, and that's exactly why we now in our proposal designate these funds to the municipalities. Over many, many years, the municipalities have been assigned a task without having followed the money, which the Progress Party has said over and over again that they had to get, otherwise the municipalities received less and less advice. That's exactly why we're doing this, so we're making a proposal for increased appropriations, money that the municipalities are going to pay out, but they're going to get the money at the same time we're giving them the assignment. The representative of Schjøtt-Pedersen has clearly neither read our alternative state budget nor our proposal in the Labour and Social Committee, with our comments. If, contrary to all assumption, he would have read this, he certainly did not understand a word of what is written there. He had a suggestion here that the economic policy of the Progress Party would destroy society as a whole, that the proposals of the Progress Party in the Labour and Social Committee would lead to a reduction in unemployment, that Aetat would receive less money, and that there would be fewer labour market measures, so he has clearly read the title of the chapters and proposals, but not the comments. We will pursue an active industrial policy, which will lead to people getting into work. For example, as we have proposed here over and over again, we could spend NOK 7.5 billion building roads in this country. But it is therefore more opportune for the Workers' Party to ensure that these people raise unemployment or are on labour market measures than to ensure that roads are built in this country, so that business can also have better framework conditions, can produce their goods around the districts, carry them into the markets and out into Europe and earn money, and in that way bring about a boom in the economy. So, more people at work. But then it's important to do the things that the representative obviously doesn't understand what's going on. On the other hand, we're doing something else important, and it's taking those who have the worst, seriously. We spend a lot more money than the government to get those who are currently dissatisfied, back to work, by facilitating jobs so that they can use their residual labour force for the benefit of society, and for the benefit of themselves, not least. Obviously, Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen has totally ignored this in our programme. We want to spend extra money on getting out of work in a proper way for those with different disabilities, and we want to make things right in the business world so that we get the rest of the work force out. That means that the weakest in this society are the ones we're betting on. The best way to fight against poverty is that people have work and can raise ordinary wages and buy Christmas gifts as we can others do. But then you better take this money and put it in pension funds, oil funds, or whatever words they put on it, without changing the content of this. So Schjøtt-Pedersen says that the leaders of the Progress Party are the ones who have money in the bank. Yes, it's probably true that a good part of the Advance Party's voters have money in the bank, in line with the others like that. are members of the LO. Large parts of our electorate are members of LO, and they don't have any more money in the bank than others in LO, so I didn't understand the correct purpose of that claim. But it also has to be stated, when so much energy is spent on attacking our labour market policies, that we have not proposed a reduction in the rates of daily allowances. That's not what Schjøtt-Pedersen says, that we hit those who are unemployed, that they get less money. The Labour Party is talking and talking, but it's not acting. SV talks and talks, but he doesn't act. I'm sorry. If that is how we have experienced many times, that it is because it is the Progress Party that is presenting the proposal, that you will not vote for it, I invite everyone in this Chamber, if they will, to put their name on the proposal and to be co-sponsors. And if the proposal is adopted, we can withdraw as co-sponsors, so that the Workers' Party and SV are allowed to propose it alone. Because what's important to us is that those who are at the bottom of the ranking, those who receive social assistance, but don't get along with it, are going to get an extra lift this Christmas, not that we're going to talk and talk and plan and plan. There's something called that as the grass grows, the cow dies, and so I don't want it to be. So I hope there's so much dignity in this room that we can vote for an overall arrangement, so that those who have the worst in this country can take part in some of the wealth we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e884	To try to help calm down the debate a little, I thought I would ask a factual and professionally thought-out question to the Progress Party at Kenneth Svendsen. What has the Progress Party intended to do for the vast majority of the poor for Christmas that they do not make with their proposal? Because what we know is that it's only approx. 18 pst. of those who fall under the OECD poverty definition, who are actually beneficiaries of social assistance. There are studies that also document why, namely that the poor themselves feel it is humiliating to go to the social office. Fear of loss of social reputation is great. Words of self-respect are also used in these surveys. In other words, the poor clearly say that they refuse to ask for the kind of help that the Progress Party is now willing to provide. So my question is, what will the Progress Party do for the vast majority of the poor for Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e890	There's certainly a lot of people falling outside, and we're going to be happy to see how we can help them. In this case, there's a specific group that we know has a hard time, and that's why we want to help them. That is what our proposal is all about. But we're going to be involved in seeing if other groups are doing it as the representative says. Schjøtt-Pedersen insisted that he would have a guarantee that the municipalities that the Progress Party controls will give increased rates. I cannot guarantee that any of the rapporteurs of the Progress Party will increase the rates, in line with the fact that Schjøtt-Pedersen cannot guarantee that some of his rapporteurs will do so. But that is precisely why it must be a state responsibility – that we can guarantee it from this Chamber – that we are promoting proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e897	You should hear a lot of strange things before your ears fall off, and I think I've heard that in the hall today. I've heard a lot of things today that I'm probably never going to forget. I have never experienced that anyone from the Progress Party has shown such commitment to people sitting at the bottom of the table, who have an empty refrigerator. I've never experienced it. Then it's quite amazing that the same party that shows this commitment, in all municipalities, is voting down all the proposals that are going to reduce poverty for individuals. It is amazing that this party sits with the chest right in the weather and talks that way to other parties that have tried to do something for people who have an empty refrigerator in the municipalities and in this room over the years. I hear Tybring-Gjedde say that this is a real problem that he discovered on Sunday because it was said in the media. This is not something that was discovered on Sunday. That there is poverty and empty refrigerator in this country, all parties in this room have known for many years. That is also why SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party in the municipal budgets that have been dealt with now, have proposed measures to fill the refrigerators. The party of progress has voted against. Then the parts that I framed have done something to try to correct the biases that exist. I must say that it sounds hollow that one comes with this now when one has not mentioned this matter at all in any budgetary proceedings. I should like to give an example: the Progress Party has the rapporteur in the municipality of Sandne. The social assistance rates in the municipality of Sandnes are NOK 4 200. In Sandnes it is that if I have a daughter who receives social assistance, and I want to give her 1000 kroner for Christmas, the Progress Party has been involved in deciding that the social office will then withdraw the 1000-note from the 4,200. Such things are that the Progress Party should engage and be involved in something, so that people out in the municipalities are able to get a better life. The representative Svendsen says they have a few rapporteurs. He has no control over his few rapporteurs. This is the policy of the gang in the municipalities of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e906	Christmas is a special celebration. That's what we're trying to say. We all have better money at Christmas than we do this year, and we therefore believe that even those who receive social assistance will get a little bit more to go with at Christmas. The proposal is not difficult as such. Previous votes and all possible excuses for not voting in favour of this proposal should not be withdrawn. There are no excuses that are good enough. Throughout history you can find many wrong results from votes and votes that the Progress Party has contributed to in local government around. I'm convinced of that. There are also many who have contributed to the Workers' Party. I'm just as convinced of that. The point is that we now have a concrete proposal to help those who are the lowest on the ranking path. But we're not all gonna make it. Our point is not to reach everyone. Our point is to reach those that we know need it. It was presented on Sunday, and the Council of State Hanssen was as surprised as I was. He did not know about it at all, and said that one could not help until next Christmas. But what will the Workers' Party do this Christmas for those who receive social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e916	The President can just say that this is just a beginning, because there are two more replicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e919	The government is going to come up with the poverty message, and we are going to go through legislation and arrangements, so that we can close all the gaps and the poverty traps in the schemes as they are. It's getting too easy -- I'm sorry, President, but I mean it -- to be concerned about this right now. Instead, we want to work long-term to make people feel better. I can say with a good conscience that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, have put forward proposals at the municipal board meetings on measures to combat poverty, which these parties have been in favour of and voted for in the budgetary proceedings around the municipalities this Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e926	I know the representative Eirin Kristin Sund as a very fair and just-minded politician and am surprised when she can use words from the pulpit in Stortinget as one has never felt that any of the members of the People's Party have this commitment. That's how it could work. I should like to see that documented. We have a lot of people in the Progress Party who in the municipalities are very busy helping and helping people in their community who are disadvantaged, just as we find representatives from very many other parties who also have a burning commitment and are busy with this. It is therefore strange when we promote this proposal, which Eirin Kristin Sund obviously is also in favour of her not voting in favour. Another group that the Progress Party would give a raise for just a few weeks back were the minimum pensioners. The Labour Party did not vote for this either. When will the Workers' Party begin to vote for what they have said they are in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e935	I have never experienced progress party representatives who have had such a commitment to social assistance rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e940	But the representative has not been in all the local authorities in this country either. Because that's not the case. I know well about the Progress Party, where there are very many people who have a great commitment to this matter. But let's say that's exactly what the representative says. Isn't it very reasonable to vote in favour of these proposals, so that those in need of social assistance also in the progressive party communities get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e947	For those who have an empty refrigerator, I think the best thing is that we get on the table a plan to combat poverty and that we manage to seal the poverty traps that exist. I think that will help them much better in the long term than if we were to vote in favour of this proposal here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e952	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e955	It was with a little wonder I heard the debate today. I want to grab hold of the representative Tybring-Gjedde said that Christmas is a special celebration. Yes, but I must honestly admit that I am not familiar with the description of the poverty situation that some people give, and especially of social assistance clients. When I say that, I am also free enough to say that I have been a member for 12 years and partly as the head of the social committee in my home municipality. I've been a social manager for four years, and I can tell you the following: we have municipal rates. By Christmas they are assessed in particular, and we use discretion in providing something extra to the people we know through our local knowledge are struggling. In addition, we use credentials to spectate. Then we use neighboring help through our knowledge and our local network. So we use non-governmental organisations to help. I think it's going to be a little special when, from this pulpit on a general basis, we're going to distribute funds to a group that might seem to be -- at least there's someone who thinks it is -- reasonably uniform. It's not that. Unlike the Progress Party, I absolutely do not believe that there will be any improvement in the situation if the state does. We have a good municipal tool. We have good municipal knowledge. We have opportunities, and we're actually doing a service where we're especially taking holidays inwards. And I'm saying, the great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great is not the best place to discuss social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e965	It is quite significant that the Progress Party has a high profile here in the hall in relation to the weak in society. In the Municipal Government Hall, from which I also know the Progress Party, they have a very different profile. I have not experienced that the Progress Party in the prioritisation of the use of scarce municipal funds is the one that is at the forefront of such a priority as we see here. When I asked for the word, it was to focus on the two faces of the Progress Party. The least visible, but most important, face is the systematic struggle of the Advance Party against collective solutions, which actually ensures the security and distribution of income for those who need it the most. They don't talk much about it. They don't send out press releases about it. I'll say they lose what is the least visible face. The visible face of the economic policy that the Progress Party is trying to bring forward is that they should focus more strongly on the small measures for people with poor advice. For me, it almost seems that they have a bad conscience for the big economic policy and therefore need to focus strongly on the small measures to correct some of the weaknesses of their own policies. Especially it is then important to be kind at Christmas. I have to say that it's not very reliable, but it's obviously important to get focus on it. I want to challenge the Advance Party. Which face is most indicative of the Economic Policy of the Progress Party? Is it the face that systematically goes in order to tear down the collective arrangements, which ensure a smooth economic policy across, that a tendering policy ensures that a person who has a full day's work is secured for work next year? Is it the most important thing, or is it the most important thing, to focus on the small measures that are intended to provide an experimental remedy for little? The center part and the red-green government hope that we will be characterised by two points. One point is the safety of work – the security of work for the many who are exposed to unfair competition and live in fear of losing their job, losing work and the fixed, necessary income, by, for example: have a new tendering policy which will ensure that the many who provide public services will have the security that people and equipment can also be used for the next year and that they will not be exposed to a competition policy which, in a few months' time, will not know much about what is ahead of them. The second point is that we're going to put public welfare at the centre, where there's consistency between tasks and funding. There should be consistency between what people expect municipalities to do for people and the financial capacity of municipalities to do it. The important welfare services of people in everyday life come from the municipalities, they do. In practice, we have to show that we give priority to security of income, so that everyone can live on a regular full-time job. There should be no need to have more jobs. There should not be such a wage trend here in the country that one must have more jobs in order to live a normal, normal life. The red-green government is going to show in practice that local government can do its job in a real way, and people have to feel that they have the security of society, no matter where they live, what position they have, and what else they have in society, and that's something we're proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e982	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e985	If it is that some parties have many faces, or at least two, we know that in the world of adventures there are many heads of trolls. The centre party showed one of these heads in the last budget, where you could give a 'Christmas package' to many of those who are already the most difficult, namely by increasing the food tax, which is certainly not the taboo of the Center Party in the election campaign. Speaking of multiple heads: I read from the setting: ‘These members therefore note that the rule of action does not prevent the actual use of oil money to a greater extent than is proposed in the ordinary State budget.’ It's a note from the Progress Party. It's the exact same note that was in the same setting one year ago. The only difference is that the Center Party was on that note. I would like to ask the representative Lundtigen: what has changed from last year to this year so that the centre party can no longer participate in this remark on the use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e997	It's quite true that the Center Party wants a low food tax, and we're going to keep working on it. But when the Progress Party here tries to present it as if they have a policy that is in practice such that it will reduce VAT revenue, it is not that comprehensive. When the Progress Party was in a position to negotiate a government budget, it was those who went in to increase the overall VAT by 1 pst, and thereby we got a tax investment of 4-5 billion kroner. I notice that the Progress Party does not address what is my main concern, namely the lack of consistency between what one does in general economic policy, in the big lines, which is to a great extent damaging to most people, and what a seemingly poor policy is trying to achieve. With regard to the use of oil money, it is the Central Party and the Government's line that they should be used more extensively for investments, not for tax reliefs that will increase private consumption in the short term. Oil money must be used for long-term investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1006	First, a comment to Eirin Sund, who says she hasn't met a single from the Progress Party who has a social commitment, and who burns for those who are the weakest. It's alarming in a day when we've heard a memorial in this room about John Alvheim, who may have fought more than anyone else for those who are the weakest. So to Lundtigen: We want one-time action, one-time action to help today, in this Christmas season – not next Christmas and Christmas then. We're talking about this Christmas. It does not have the consequences that a general increase in social assistance rates will have in terms of jobs, in terms of those with the lowest income in paid work, versus living on social assistance, etc. We want one-time measures. It doesn't have these consequences. We can vote for that by reducing this huge pension fund by 170 million. kr. Is it the case that the Central Party will not vote in favour of this because the Progress Party in the Municipal Government is alleged to be voting against other measures that help the weakest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1019	Yeah, that's right. The centre party will not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party. For what is the main point of the proposal? Yeah, it's just once. It is precisely what is typical of the Progress Party to focus on, once and for all, and raise it in the debate in such a way that it gives the impression that it is the general, general, well-meaning, good and secure economic policy of the Progress Party. That's what it's not. The Progress Party has not yet answered my question: What do they give priority to – the fight against the collective schemes that ensure the most people, or the one-time measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1026	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1029	First of all, I would like to say that today we are going to deal with the ageing of a budget that is historic in some areas. Maybe the most historic thing is that we have a budget that's taken seriously. That's what we're dealing with here today. Then we've got a proposal on the table, which I understand came just before noon. 9 today, raising one group of poor people. The Progress Party has strongly argued but does not appear to have a majority in favour of the proposal. My wish is that the Advance Party remembers the poor not only at Christmas, but also for the rest of the year. I want the burning hearts of the Advance Party in the municipalities to tell the advance party representatives that it is poor in the municipalities even when it is not Christmas. They're poor when it's summer vacation and when they have birthdays. I want the Progress Party to remember this, and that we can work together on the good measures that will come in next year's budget for the poor – even when it is not Christmas. Finally, I would like to remind you that there are quite many times 135,000 poor people outside the borders of Norway for whom something has really been done in this budget, but the Progress Party has done a great deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1038	Some people in this debate have tried to make it appear that the Progress Party wants more money for everyone. That, of course, is not correct. We have a thorough review of our budget and our priorities, and we have a net cut in total public expenditure of NOK 12 billion in next year's budget, which has recently been discussed. That means we have a completely different device on our money than the multiple has. We spend a lot of money on tax breaks, and of course it will have a completely different impact on the economy than on a user, etc. in the public sector. Lower charges would also make it easier for those at the bottom of the table. One would get more to route with for the money you already have. This is also being tested here as if our budget would create a cost pressure, a price rise and a higher interest rate. That's not correct. Because of the arrangements and due to the fact that tax breaks in isolation also contributed to lower price rises, an unscathed workplace would be at risk of our policies. On the contrary, our budget would provide security for work and ensure that a long-term job security – including in competitive sectors – would be far more than the result of the budget agreed, even in relation to the current year. When it comes to the changes that we propose in aging, they will have no effect whatsoever on the cost pressure. I think we're all a couple of people about that. I also have to remind you that in the last twelve months, the private households have increased their debt by NOK 140 billion. No pressure has been created in the Norwegian economy. Did not create the right path And it also didn't create any substantial right interest rate. Then our proposals, both in the regular budget and those that have been made here, are very small, completely insignificant. They won't create a problem for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1047	I come from a municipality called South Varanger. In that municipality, we had a lot of poor, poor people, who had no place to be in the winter when it was like 25-30 degrees cold and had to walk across the street. The Russian sailors in the city had no place to be. The strange thing was that after the Progress Party came into position, two years went by – first with a large collection action – the entire apparatus around a place for Russian seafarers was incorporated into the municipal budget. This was not the case when the Workers' Party was in power, or when SV was in power. But that was the case when the Progress Party came to power. I am quite indignant to hear in this room that the Advance Party should be the party that has no heart – this one day we have all remembered John I. Alvheim, perhaps the politician in Norway who has had the greatest social heart in the last ten years. I'm very indignant about this way of driving polemics. Our proposal is a very social proposal aimed at those who need it the most. Then we can start talking about the state of Oslo and Nøtterøy, but we could also draw out municipalities like Vardø, Gamvik – and a number of other municipalities. Starting with such a kind of polemics, isn't it to lift responsibility out of this hall and over to someone who is not at all able to defend himself? I would like to remind both the SV and the Workers' Party that our proposal is actually intended to help the weakest in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1056	I would like to say a few words at the end of this debate. Firstly, the system we have today for social assistance means that municipalities should take individual account of the payment of social assistance. For the vast majority of municipalities, taking individual consideration means realizing that it is also Christmas for those who have to deal with social assistance every month or every week. That's how we know it is. It is also the case that until now, the Storting has not intervened more strongly in the direction of social assistance to the poor, but I expect that it will be part of the debate on the poverty message and measures against poverty that the Storting is receiving when the Government has made proposals. There are good reasons to do that, and there are good reasons not to do that. The good reason for doing so is that some local politicians take very little account of those who have the least, when they are going to settle their municipal budgets. Although I am not going to cut all the local politicians of the Progress Party over one comb, I have a long list of examples that it is just the right side around the municipalities that have at least held hands over those who have the least to everyday life. I'm very happy if there's real commitment behind many of the posts about poverty that have been in this room, because we have, in one of the richest countries in the world, a very big and important job to do, namely to make sure that everyone can get involved in well-being. It's the hardest thing for those who don't have much to walk with before Christmas, when you see how everyone else is doing. That is why I hope that what the Progress Party has presented today as a one-time measure and a one-off case, is not. I hope that the commitment of the Progress Party today will not pass, but that they will stand by it in January, February, March, April – and all the way forward. For this society does not have too many who are engaged in the fight against poverty. We're too few. If we are to be able to give real priority to the fight against poverty in the future, we also need the commitment of the Progress Party. We're not going to discriminate against any batch background in relation to where that exposure comes from. So the best Christmas gift I could get, as the government could get and as the rest of the Storting could get, was that the Progress Party's commitment to the fight against poverty is not a one-off case, but that it lasts all the next year and all the years after – because it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1071	Those were fine words from our finance minister. The Council of State does not have the right to vote in this room, but it would have been very fun to know how the head of SV feels when the representatives of SV in this room today are going to vote down some of the things that were just the SV leader's taboo in the election campaign. The commitment of the Progress Party shall not go beyond this debate. That's why we've committed ourselves and put forward proposals. What I'm a little surprised about is that all those who had a lot of commitment before, now suddenly, when we finally come to voting on a proposal in this room today, are not so committed anymore – you recommend not to support the proposal. Is it now that the Minister of Finance does not see this as problematic? Does she not see how this is perceived in the minds of people who believe this to help poor people, as a clear campaign case and when it comes to clear action, then this kind of proposal is defeated by the Minister of Finance's blessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1082	I have 16 years of seagoing service in the main hall as an opposition politician. The times I've been good and got something done are when we've started a real campaign for a proposal in good time before it was to be dealt with in the main hall. The time SV came in the last night before a matter was to be dealt with in the hall, we knew that we had no chance of getting it done. The Progress Party has now presented a proposal that they made last night, in the fight against poverty. This is a good start, but it is not meant to be serious. If it was serious on the part of the Progress Party, what should they do? Then they should call all their rapporteurs, Vice-Presidents and all their local government representatives as soon as possible and say: We want those who have the least to travel with in Norway to receive extra social assistance for Christmas. Because then they would have done it. I see this as a proposal from the Progress Party which is not meant to be serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1091	The Council of State claims that the proposal is not serious. But the proposal is now there! Whether she thinks it's serious or not, it's there, and she can go up to this pulpit and invite her party group or government to vote for the proposal. It is not to combat poverty in Norway that we propose this, but to remedy a situation that we know is out there, even in the County Council of Halvorsen – not least there. I have been discussing this with the State Council of the Halvorsen in the election campaign. We stood outside the Storting and proclaimed our struggle to combat poverty. So this is the result. It doesn't help to promise those who need help today, help tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1098	As long as social assistance is a municipal responsibility, the Stortinget and all the parties can say this: now the Stortinget has adopted a strengthening of the municipal economy by DKK 5.7 billion for next year. This means that all those who are concerned that poor people should have something for Christmas can make sure that it does so through social assistance in the municipalities. The Progress Party can do the same. I really don't want to continue a polemics in relation to this, because this is a serious problem, which all of our society has a responsibility to fight. If the Progress Party now shows real commitment to those who have the least in Norway, I welcome it, because we're going to need it in the future, and it's going to be hard to prioritize those who have the least in the past. There is no majority in Norway — they are outside for some reason. It's very easy for the great majority to forget it when it comes to the day of judgment. That is why it is extremely welcome to me that the Progress Party is committed to this. The municipalities have a better economy. They can give priority to social assistance clients if they want to. And we must maintain a balance with the fight against poverty, which we must take care of as a matter of priority every day in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1105	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1060]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1120	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1158	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second State budget for 2005 is amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones1320 Roads of the Member States Compensation for exceptional road maintenance costs National and county roads, granted by the State Petroleum Fund 60 000 0005800 [[New]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800)]] IIThe size consents to the use of the keyword ‘transferable’ in the allocation under the heading. 1320 new entry 32.The amount is used for exceptional clean-up and maintenance operations on both national and county roads in connection with the weather in the West and parts of Central Norway in the autumn of 2005 and is distributed by the Ministry in consultation with the county of the affected counties.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1387	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The development of the road connection rv 64 Braksnes-Kristiansund is carried out as described in St.prp. [[Atlantic Tunnel]] [[2005-2006]] No 28 This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1420	I voted wrong before the president was going to tell us what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1427	The same is true of me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e1434	It's okay to decide what to do. – Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e2327	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II Stortinget’s Decision of 25 November 2004 on V. The fee for petrol shall be amended as follows:Article 1, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:From 20 December 2005, under Law 19 May 1933, paragraph 11 if excise duties are paid to the State Treasury on petrol. Fee is paid at the following amount per. litre:for sulphur-free petrol, the first paragraph of Section 1 is amended as follows:From 20 December 2005, under Law 19 May 1933, it is replaced by the following: 11 on excise duty is charged to the State Treasury on mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles. [[autodiesel fee]] Fee is paid at the following amount per. litre:for sulphur-free mineral oil [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e2426	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced here that they want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e2444	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 15 December 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that apprentices be exempted from public service pension rules.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e2465	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Christian Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 December 2005: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a draft Constitution for a State pension fund aimed at ensuring in the long term the accrued-to-date pension rights of members of the population, based on pension contributions from members and employers and fund returns.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e2486	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 2-4, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the vote, while the other proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-20.ana.ud2572e4313	Since this is the last meeting in 2005, the President will thank everyone for their work and for their cooperation. The President hopes that everyone will have a nice and peaceful Christmas, and that it will be time to relax. The President's way of doing it is to ski, but since the president's for freedom of choice, it's up to everyone how to relax at Christmas -- just relax a little bit and meet again fresh in the new year. [[laughs in the hall]] Merry Christmas and Happy New Year all!
