ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e68	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e79	First, I would like to thank the Committee for an exceptionally good cooperation in the production of the position we are discussing today. It is with pleasure that I present the Committee's position, because today we are going to deal with the budgetary area where it has perhaps become most evident a change from the previous one to the current one. It is the inhabitants of the municipalities who are clearly the budget winners of the year. That's clear, because the growth in free money from this year's budget to the budget we are now going to adopt for next year is a total of DKK 5.7 billion. The difference from the outgoing government to the current government is DKK 3.8 billion. There is a completely necessary increase after years of cuts in the municipal sector that have led to cuts in welfare. Prior to the previous election, the Right opted for a reduction in public expenditure. It was a real thing. What they did not say was that in practice it meant reducing the provision of care for the elderly, getting poorer quality in primary school, getting poorer quality in local health services. Therefore, the new course is absolutely necessary to change that development. Now we need to invest in common well-being rather than in tax incentives for those who already have the most. It is an ideological choice if one believes that greater differences in people lead to more creativity and activity, as some on the right claim, or – as we believe – that a safer system of common well-being gives more equality and a safer society. It's a very ideological choice. Less ideological are some of the rapporteurs of the Right around Norway. I noticed that Larvik’s rapporteur spoke to the East German Post Nettavisen on election day that this will be a good day anyway, because either we win the election or the municipality will get more money – something freely reproduced. Fortunately, the second option went in, and it has led to 27 million Larvik's inhabitants. kr more. As a result of the increase, we see that there are now proposals for more teachers in primary school, that there will be more sick homes, and that more hands will be employed for care. In some municipalities they experience that for the first time in many, many years students can finally get the camp schooling they should have had every year. It has become a somewhat easier job for the local government of the country after this budget. But it hasn't necessarily become a strong growth for everyone compared to this year. For some municipalities it has become less cut. For some people, there's been a new lift. But for all municipalities, it's a promise of better times. This is absolutely necessary because over the years it has developed a crisis of confidence between the local and the central political environment, where we have increasingly blamed each other for shortcomings we can point to in society. If all politicians at all levels of government claim that politicians at the other levels of government don't understand how people are doing in everyday life, we can ultimately risk making people believe in it. That's why it's absolutely necessary to regain trust. First of all, at the state level, at the level of collapse and government, we must take responsibility for it, by doing as it is done this time – fully financing state orders that are given to the municipalities. Therefore, we fully adjust the price of the nursery allowance, and – not least – when parents who have kids in the kindergarten are reduced from 1 January to NOK 2 250, it is the state that fully compensates for what costs the municipalities. It's real, and it gives trust over time. Furthermore, we need to put in place a plan to correct the imbalance that has been created over many years, with more binding consultations and a review of the income system of the municipalities, where we include. review the VAT refund scheme and company tax. Municipalities are an important welfare producer. That is why they are also important in the policy on equalisation. There's reason to remember what Trygve Bratteli once said, that in our progress towards an increasingly better welfare society it's important to remember to see that there won't be anyone left in the weak after us. That's why it's good with the welfare effort the government is now doing, so it's good that the kindergarten rates go down, it's good to raise the boute poison bar in the largest cities by NOK 10 000, and it's good that the Oslo inner east and Groruddalen are invested more strongly. Yeah, it's good to have a $500 million poverty package. kr more than that provided by the previous government is adopted in the various budgets. In order to refer to another known working party size, Haakon Lie, he said in connection with his marking 80 years of membership in the Workers' Party, that for us it will always be important to remember those sitting at the bottom of the table. I am pleased that we have experienced this during the fall, including: after strong efforts by the representative Karin Andersen and the councillor Åslaug Haga, that the offer of aid has now been made to the Municipality of Oslo to provide an offer to the homeless in Oslo. Significant resources have been made available if the authorities of Oslo would accept the extended hand to help the weakest. Then we're not just talking about those sitting at the bottom of the table, but about those who actually don't even have a table to sit at the bottom of. This government will increase its activity in relation to district and industrial policy and has already included the first allocation to it in this budget. It's going to be more visible later. In the autumn, we in France have seen the results of an integration policy that leads to some falling outside. We have seen that the need for an active immigration and integration policy clearly determines the quality of life in the future. In immigration policy, our policy must be strict, but it must be fair. We will ensure that those who are not to stay in Norway are sent out quickly. That is why we have recently adopted a waiting reception, as it surprised me that not only the Advance Party, but large parts of the former government fraction voted against. That is why we need to focus more on signals from the High Commissioner for Refugees, and that is why we need to assess the activities of the foreign student. In integration policy, we must have good quality receptions. We're going to do better Norwegian training. We need to introduce free core time into certain kindergartens, including: in Oslo. And we've reintroduced the integration grant for family reunification to the municipalities, which makes it easier to integrate those who live on a humanitarian basis and their family reunion. We need to have a review of the whole issue, so that immigration policy becomes strict, but fair, that integration policy becomes solidarity and helps people to get their own way. The merger has a very special position in Norwegian society through the autonomy it gives to have its own law as the basis for its activities. It is important that the Storting keep that integrity and let the Sametinge decide their own business. That is why I am pleased that the budgets of the eight departments which grant for the same policy are increased by 5 pst. to 250 million. kr. I am particularly pleased that appropriations are now being made so that the borderless people in Tysfjord get a fair uprising in the form of a programme for research and documentation activities, and have confidence that the Sameeting itself ensures that it does so in a proper way that gives trust among those who were frontierless, and their descendants. The United Nations has numbered Norway as the world's best country to live in for many years. It is a victory for the Nordic welfare model. An essential element of that model is a strong public sector. That is why we need to further develop the sector we are going to renew it, and we need, as for example. The local authorities' Central Association in the efficiency network, on the initiative of Jørgen Kosmo, ensure that we get a public sector that is best for the inhabitants. The Soria Moria Declaration provided a new course for the public sector. The budget confirms this, and that is why I am pleased to be able to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e115	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e118	I hear that the Workers' Party makes a big point of the 5.7 billion, which is essentially free money, which is placed in the state budget for next year. But then we see what this money is used for. We see municipalities that use the money to build beautiful cultural houses, and we see municipalities that use the money to pay off debts. This is bad with what the Labour Party said throughout the election campaign, namely that they should bet on elderly care and school. In fact, it is not so easy to give free funds to the municipalities and expect them to be used in the way the policymakers promise. This must be a problem for the Workers' Party. I call for the will to do what the Progress Party is actually proposing in its alternative state budget, where we are taking the initiative to earmark large parts of the increase in the municipalities of care for the elderly and school. Isn't this something the Labour Party also sees? Is it not difficult to boast of this when the municipalities do something quite different than the Workers' Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e125	It would be nice to hear examples of municipalities that, after the government introduced the increase in the budget, have decided to build cultural houses instead of spending money on care. I don't know any such examples. In many places, the municipalities are concerned with culture, and we should be happy about that. But what we are now getting feedback about is that in the health care sector, in home-based care, there will be a new rise in the school sector, and that we will see the results. Most municipal politicians have their hearts at home. I know rapporteurs who laugh when they can't offer good enough offers in the health care sector, who are concerned that their kids will be taught as well as the kids in the neighbouring municipality. That's what most municipal politicians are burning for. I register that the Progress Party in the municipality that I mentioned in my post, Larvik, this time has actually been with and with joy spent 27 million. kr in collaboration with all parties in Larvik. So we can trust most local politicians – sometimes also the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e132	The next replicator is Beate Höie – no sorry, Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e135	Yeah, the president looked a little surprised when I walked over the floor. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will oppose competitive outsourcing and privatisation in key welfare areas such as education, health and care. These are tasks which are essentially a municipal responsibility. These are tasks that users are totally dependent on, and which I think most people agree on just for the users. The municipalities that have made use of the competitive environment and user choice in these areas feel that users are becoming more satisfied. This can be seen from user surveys in Norway, among others. Oslo and Eide municipality, and not least from Denmark, where user choice is now the main rule. I expect that the employee party representative, Andersen, is also concerned about the interests of the users. What user surveys from Norway or the rest of the world show that those receiving home services from private operators on a competitive basis are less satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e144	What should be called Day Terje Andersen, when Bent becomes Beate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e147	For safety's sake, I'm just referring to the representative, Höie. The area where the representative pointed out is one of the areas where one sees a clear ideological difference between those who sat and those who are now sitting. My starting point is that in Norway's municipalities, which are very different, it's not like if you get a check as a basis for buying your own care services, that the competition and a flora of private providers are there. I am aware that this is not primarily the starting point of the Right, but one of the former parliamentary basis of the Right. However, the effect may be similar in the case of a competitive outsourcing that makes older people or school students business areas. Some of the core societal tasks are not suitable for business activities. They should simply be joint welfare services of such good quality that the voters in non-delivery municipalities are replaced by political management and put things in order in that way. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e154	The President will remind you that the speaking time for lines is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e158	The Christian People's Party believes that more money is good for the municipalities, because it means more money for school, health and culture. It is good and easy to agree. That's the containment we disagree with. It was said by the representative Andersen that it is good that the nursery rates go down. The Christian People's Party agrees. But cash support also goes down, and it affects other families with children. We know that cash support is socially equalising and goes to many families with low incomes. Does a new rate mean that in future budgets, one will continue to be covered in the same way as one sees in this budget, cut in cash, cut in the voluntary sector, and cut more in the case of families?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e165	Although the cash support is not in the budget we have for processing today, I am of course aware that the government has said that the cash support should be continued. Some have claimed that it is a breach of promise that it is somewhat deadjusted. It's completely wrong. It shall be continued and continued. But we have given priority to the families of children in a number of other areas. Then, as the representative Tørresdal says, it was some of the necessary containment. But if we see this budget in context, if we look at the nursery rate, if we look at the parents' ability to get a better school offer, if we look at the possibility of limiting the increase in SFO rates as a result of the better community economy, then there is no doubt that the families of children are one of the budget winners in this budget. It's still going to be like that in the future. They will be a priority area within the SFO, within kindergarten, within school, within public welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e172	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e175	Let me first give a tribute to the other opposition parties in the Committee for constructive cooperation in the work of the State Budget. Although the policy areas under the Municipal and Administrative Committee may not represent areas where the non-socialist parties are closest to each other, I note that this in itself does not prevent cooperation. It promises good for the future. In the 2006 government budget, the government is adding up to an increase in the framework of the municipalities by DKK 5.7 billion. This is essentially free resources that the municipalities can dispose of as they themselves wish. And they do that to those degrees! Some municipalities choose to pay off debts, others choose to build prominent cultural buildings. If the Labour Party needs examples of that, they do not actually have to look further than at Lørenskog, because there the Socialist majority has just decided to balance with free incomes that increase in next year's budget. The result is that care for the elderly and initial training at all do not get the big promise that the government parties promised throughout the election campaign. Then it doesn't help much to increase the free resources. The progress party was alone to warn against this, and it turns out that unfortunately we got it right. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we also add up to an increase in transfers to municipalities of NOK 5.7 billion, but unlike the Government, we choose to earmark NOK 2 billion for the care of the elderly and SEK 800 million. kr for initial training. When you read the Soria Moria statement, you quickly see that the Government intends to liberalise Norwegian immigration policy, despite the fact that we face major challenges in integrating immigrants who already live in Norway. Very many immigrants are currently out of the labour market while being overrepresented among social security recipients and in serious crime. We see clear tendencies towards segregation, where non-Western immigrants gather in certain neighbourhoods, while ethnic Northmen leave the same areas. This is a development that cannot continue. I would argue that immigration policy and immigration to Norway are simply not sustainable in the long term, given the same conditions. That is why the Progress Party has demanded that we take a break in immigration until we move on and can achieve a truly successful integration policy. In fact, the government has pointed to working life as an important key to the well-functioning integration of immigrants. That vision shares the party of progress, but here also the consensus stops. Unfortunately, participation in the labour force among immigrants is much lower than that of the rest of the population. From an integration perspective, this gives rise to serious concerns. But what does the Government do to meet this issue? Yes, they choose to owe employers. The government simply claims that job applications from people with names that do not sound ethnically Norwegian in the ears of employers end up in the trash. They stigmatise even Norwegian employers as prejudiced, almost on the verge of being racist. It is serious, and we completely disagree with that. This is again used as an argument for introducing specific measures for immigrants in the labour market. But is it really the way the Government claims that people with non-Western names have a general disadvantage in the labour market? Taking into account the latest employment survey of immigrants by the Statistical Centre, this may not be the case. Here you can see that while Somalis and Afghans have the absolute lowest employment rate, at 27 and 29 p.p. respectively, immigrants from India and Ghana are between 61 and 65 p.p., just below the average for ethnic North. If it is not the government’s view that Mahama is more ethnically Norwegian than Ahmed, there must be completely different circumstances that explain such dramatic differences between different immigrant groups. A far more durable explanation is enough that there are cultural barriers that differ across different immigrant groups, which represent the greatest obstacle to entering the labour market. And cultural barriers are none other than the individual immigrants themselves who can build down. When will the Government understand that the path to successful integration policies is primarily through making demands on people who choose to live in Norway – the requirement to master the language used here in the country, the requirement to take in knowledge and understanding of the society in which they live, the requirement for their own efforts to obtain a result, the requirement that they accept and adapt to the basic standards, values and traditions that define us as a Western culture, rooted in human rights? This means that attitudes and actions that are contrary to our thinking need to be reduced to a much greater extent. It is about values that we should never compromise with – such as freedom of expression, equality, democracy, personal freedom, freedom of belief or the right to choose their own lifelong course. We shall not accept sexual mutilation, forced marriage, oppressive religious symbols, or introduce special arrangements that are there only to form individual ethnic or religious groups. For too long, well-meaning socialists have set the stage for integration policy. Because they have not been willing to settle with unacceptable attitudes in their eagerness to be inclusive, they have in practice been the main obstacle to achieving a successful integration policy in this country. This is not least evident by the double standard that the socialists communicate to the religious environments. In the name of equality, the Norwegian Church is required to employ gay priests. When did the president last hear an SV demanding that gay imams be hired in mosques, or for that matter female imams? There are significant cultural differences, often with religious backgrounds, that should not be accepted. Such cultural differences must be eliminated by immigrants on the day they choose to move to Norway. Other cultural differences need to be willing to adapt in order to succeed in the Norwegian society and succeed in the Norwegian labour market. Not until the day the majority in this room realizes this and then acts, it is possible to change course and create a well-functioning integration policy. I bring up the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e201	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e206	The Party has stated that they wish to have a closed reception for persons who have been refused their application for asylum. But in the Inner East. S. No 31 for 2005-2006, the same Progress Party opposes the establishment of a waiting reception. What seemed to be a step in the right direction is not, all of a sudden, it is not. Then I would like to ask the Progress Party whether they think it is better that former asylum seekers stay around in different municipalities and at refugee receptions, than in this waiting reception. And does the Progress Party think that it is better for the municipalities to get these costs than for the state to take this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e211	No, the Progress Party does not have the sense and does not accept that illegal immigrants should go into hiding and stay at unknown addresses in this country. That's why we've also said all along that we want closed receptions, where we can protect these people and thus avoid their disappearing to an unknown address. What lies in the government's so-called waiting reception is something else. It is an entirely open reception, where illegal immigrants can come and go as they wish. And when we also see that this should be placed at the centre of the East, where we already have most illegal immigrants, and we then have an even greater centralization of this, yes, the Progress Party must go against that proposal. We believe that closed reception is the only right, dangerous way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e216	Our own indigenous people were not mentioned in the speeches of the representative, but it is now that the Progress Party wants to put an end to the Sameting and therefore reduces the appropriations in its alternative budget proposal. I can understand that it is possible to have different fundamental views about the need to have a separate contraction. On the other hand, I think it is alarming that the Progress Party appears to be consistently standing alone in terms of Sami relations and indigenous questions. In its comments, the party argues that it is wrong to give ethnic groups advantages that no one else has, and that it is fundamentally wrong for some citizens to have more or less rights than others. Is it true that the Progress Party will not accept that there are still minority groups in our country that have a distinctive background and culture and that still need positive specific measures to ensure real equivalence? Does the Progress Party intend to remove in the long term all subsidies to minority groups, and how can this be consistent with the fact that the party actually has its own coastal culture policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e223	The Progress Party is a liberalist party. We are a party that is fundamentally and fundamentally based on the belief that all people are equally valuable, regardless of ethnic background, religion, gender, and everything else you have to come up with. We want to treat all people the same way. That's because we don't have our own desire to treat Sams or other ethnic groups in this country. We believe that the best thing is to treat all people the same, and we also show that in our immigration policy. We don't want any special measures. We believe that there are very few situations in which special measures can be referred to as positive. We actually see the exact opposite, that in Finnmark it has helped to build conflicts that were not initially there. We want to treat all of the Nordics the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e228	How to claim that one is for an active integration policy and at the same time is against all kinds of specific measures, does not go into my head. What I want to ask the representative about, is that which is quite a contradiction for me, and that is that the Progress Party cuts off some of the permits in connection with immigrants because one wants to delineate immigration, and says that their own asylum and immigration policies would have led to more people coming here. The alternative is to help refugees in their own homeland, says the Progress Party. It says one at a time like a cut 9 billion dollars on the aid budget. You can't jump! How has the Progress Party thought, point 1, to close the borders of Norway, and point 2, to help people in their homeland, without having financial means to help them? How does this go together?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e235	Of course, the funding of the Progress Party in this area needs to be seen in the context of how we want to manage immigration policy in relation to the number of people coming to the country. Then it's quite correct that we spend less money in the area, but that doesn't necessarily mean that we have a worse offer for those who actually come to the country. Listening to SV usually sounds like throwing as much money as possible after integration policy, and we've seen that it doesn't help. There are quite other measures that are needed to succeed in this area, and then I refer to my post, where I said that it is primarily about making demands. We take responsibility for this, and this is absolutely vital if we are to achieve successful integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e246	The political divisions in Norway are not about which parties are to give the most money to municipalities. In the debate on the election campaign, and not least after the government presented its adjusted draft budget, much of the message has been: the answer is that the government has given more money to the municipalities, what was the question? There has been a significant increase in the free income of municipalities in 2004, 2005 and now in 2006. This is a growth that will benefit citizens in the form of better services within, among other things. care, care and school. I am convinced that this growth is going to continue, regardless of government. The presentation that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, made in his contribution to the development of the municipal economy in the last year is therefore wrong. It is the quality of public services, such as schools, hospitals and hospitals, which are important, not whether it is a State, municipality or county that is responsible. The contracting entity is the individual resident. This is the right starting point in the debate on the organisation of our country. In a small country such as Norway, two levels of administration are considered sufficient. Two levels of government – state and municipality – will strengthen local democracy and provide better services. Therefore, the Right will lower the county as a level of government. In its book ‘Strengthening Regions’, the Central Association of Municipalities has taken the initiative to shed light on the regional idea. The book has several authors, and under different titles they have taken into account a possible future regional level. The first impression is that the main dimension is gone, the users. None of the authors have been given the task of deepening the perception of today’s situation and of a future region, and are therefore getting into that topic. The conclusion in the book is, in a simplified way, that Norway needs county municipalities, but that we don't need so many, and that they should be called regions. The county does not create any enthusiasm or public debate. The county does not feel important for most people and has little meaning, unless you are between 16 and 18 years of age and use the secondary schools or are parents of someone in that group. There is a broad consensus that the county council has absolute shortcomings. Nevertheless, the Government wants to retain a kind of county municipality, it should only become even larger and even less accessible to its inhabitants. This has a definite meaning for – before one has evaluated today’s county council, and without responding to the tasks of the new regions. The government deliberately chose to cancel an evaluation already ordered, because they did not need that knowledge. The answer is: we need regions. But what was the question? However, it is not difficult to wonder what tasks a new regional level could have, and not least what tasks it cannot have. Today's county tasks are obvious: the operation of secondary schools, coordination responsibilities in land and transport planning and a part relating to culture and food. After all, the dental care must go either to the regional health establishments, or to the municipalities, which Right wants. The challenge is to transfer current state tasks to the new regions. The university and higher education sectors may be forgotten. They will not be governed by local politicians, and the principle of their free position is widely enshrined in this Chamber. The specialist health service has been transferred to the State. It has been a successful reform. The closest one transfer to a regional level we have already seen – the majority of the board representatives will be proposed by the county. The regional road offices are an opportunity, but I don't think that the Stortinget and the Minister of Transport will give up power over the entire infrastructure in this country. In addition, it is the national transport plan and the annual appropriations for the transport budget that determine the rate of expansion. Organizing the queue is hardly a rewarding task in itself. People's environmental management is another part, but that means that the Storting must radically change the law in order for a local person to have real power. Is there anyone who believes that the Socialist Left Party will accept that strong national environmental concerns are being sacrificed on the altar of local democracy? I don't think so. The agricultural departments of the counties are another option. But then, the law of the land and the law of the concession must be amended so that these issues can be dealt with locally. Is there anyone who thinks the Center Party will accept that? I don't think so. The answer was the transfer of state tasks. But the question was, which one? In addition, all those working in these organisations today are employed in the country. We will discuss in a later case the special rights attached to this. But is there anyone who believes that these will voluntarily accept being transferred to the municipal sector? How will trade unions react to this? The Minister of Renewal, who has the state's human resources, will probably be told of her responsibility to defend their rights, in the internal drawdown of the Government. Here there will be a happy mix of trade union interests and political arguments as to why that particular function has a national significance. This is going to be a fight, office office. The answer is that really there will be little transfer of state tasks. The new regions have the same tasks as the current county municipality, but the main concept will be regional development. Then there's a party that's going to lose, that's the municipalities. A new level of administration with great ambition to develop the region will take on responsibilities that the municipality currently assumes alone or in cooperation. The question was to decentralize power, the answer was to centralize. The right solution to the county municipality is to lower it, rather than prioritize the municipalities. By strengthening the municipalities, we want to create greater proximity to the inhabitants. Municipalities shall be given more tasks, greater frameworks and more local freedom to carry out these tasks. Right wants decisions to be moved as closely as possible to the users of public services. Regionalisation is in the opposite direction and does not contribute to strengthening democracy. Administrative and political operations of county councils in Norway cost approximately NOK 2 billion. It's as much as the county councils combined use dental services in this country. It is obvious that municipalities would be able to create much more well-being if these funds were given different priority. Even better schools, hospitals and roads for our citizens are more important than increased and new bureaucracy. Right-wing municipal policy is based on wanting to shift more responsibility down to the municipal level, because we believe that the best priorities are taken by those closest to the population. We want to give municipalities more freedom and municipal politicians an even greater responsibility for managing values properly. The debate on the regions is largely about how the government manages taxes like you and I have paid in. Should we give priority to bureaucracy, or even better services? When I put so much emphasis on this in my post, it's because this case is probably going to be the most important thing that this committee is going to work on during this magnification period, and probably also the matter that is going to put the deepest traces behind it in the future. The minority, including the Right, has a number of suggestions in the setting. They are good, and had deserved to be adopted today. Among other things, there are two proposals that the Government should increase the freedom of municipalities to dispose of their own income, that the Stortinget has a separate case of improving efficiency in the municipal sector, and that if the electricity prices again become abnormally high, a housing support scheme should be used to help those who need it. The parties themselves are given the reasons why they cannot vote in favour of these proposals. But if one sees the configurations of the committees in the Storting, it seems that the government parties have done their thinking on Soria Moria, and after that new thoughts and suggestions would be rejected. In that case, it's a shame. The plural government was probably the answer, but what was the really question? I bring this up with the suggestions that the Right are involved in promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e288	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e293	First of all, I understand that Höie does not choose to spend much time on municipal economics in her article. But the small thing he said was to the extent that a confirmation of something I've long felt that we're kind of living in each of our worlds as to what's the reality out in the Commune-Norway. I still allow to ask a question: how does Höie imagine that the situation and the service offer in Kommune-Norway would have really been next year, if the Bondevik government had been allowed to continue? Then I have two more questions. Of course, the right must be allowed to believe that one will put down the county council, but then I think it is interesting to know: How many municipalities do you think it is going to be in Norway? And is a willing to use force to implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e302	The budget presented by the Bondevik II government to the Municipality of Norway was a well-worked budget, which meant growth in the municipal sector and growth in free resources, as was growth in the municipal sector in 2005 and record growth in 2004. The growth rate for the municipal sector in 2004 was the highest since 1997. I would like to remind the representative that there have been changing governments with changing parties, including among the parties that are now in government, in the period between that. So this thing about having a growth in the municipal sector, it's been in the last few years, and it's going to be in the years to come. That's good, because I'm convinced that these means are being used in a good and sensible way, for the benefit of the people. However, the local government sector is facing significantly greater challenges than the level of free resources, if they are to be able to meet the future we are going into, not least to manage to create the best possible services for the resources they receive. Between municipalities it is that between the most efficient and the most efficient municipality is the most efficient two and a half times more efficient than the least efficient municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e309	I want to challenge the representative on a theme that is important in the setting, but that was not taken into account in his post, and that's the government's proposal on research and experimentation related to the 6-hour day, with a start time of 10 million. kr. History shows that the Right has been against all worktime cuts – not only since the last century, but actually since the hundred years before it again. The right has selected the page and has been associated with the job buyers of those matches. What multiple governments are doing now is launching research activities linked to this. In the vote, the minority says that this will significantly reduce the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry, and it always has our argument when one has had a reduction in working time. Why doesn't the Storing minority have the knowledge of this at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e320	On the right, there is nothing against individual enterprises, some municipalities or some organisations trying on a 6-hour day, if they do so in cooperation with their employees, and do so as part of the way in which they organise their work. But when the state is going to spend 10 million. kr on such a test scheme must be because one believes that in the future one should consider introducing, where appropriate, the SV’s proposal for a 6-hour day for all. That's right-wing, and that's for the simple reason that it's probably going to be the biggest attack on the welfare society we know today, which has ever been proposed. For the biggest challenge in meeting the tasks of the welfare society, the lack of hands is, and that deficiency will be significant if this becomes the general rule. In addition, it will significantly weaken Norway in international competition, thereby also removing the basis for financing the welfare society we know today. And when the current Prime Minister in the election campaign said that it's not relevant with a 6-hour day for everyone, we don't understand why you're going to spend money trying to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e327	The representative, Mr Hagebakken, asked two very specific questions to the representative, Mr Höie, whom the representative, Mr Höie elegantly chose to ignore. One question is: Will Right support coercion of municipalities? The second question is, how many municipalities do you think it is right that we should have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e334	The answer to that question is found in the Røjres Storingsprogramm, where one says that bundling municipalities is mainly based on volunteering. But we recognize as a party that today's municipal structure is not sustainable if you want to continue to have larger tasks and the tasks that they have today, because the quality of services varies so widely between municipalities, because the tasks of municipalities have become more and more specialised. This means that users in today's society will experience a wide variation in the quality of services, because the municipal structure varies as much as it does. So it's a goal for us to reduce the number of municipalities, but it's essentially based on volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e344	We all have our favourites. The current Minister of Finance has a favorite focus on the fact that the national wealth in Norway is not primarily oil, but that it is primarily people. One of my favourites is the one that the Minister of Finance also presented at the press conference where the state budget was presented, where it was clearly stated that we have now done something about the relationship between the growth of public consumption and the growth of private consumption. The Bondevik II government had a measure that the growth in private consumption would be significantly higher than the growth in public consumption. We can't turn it in three weeks, but the difference here is at least much smaller. This is for SV a part of the ideological shift that has been found after the choice. This isn't just a question of what we can afford, or what we can afford. This is a question of what priority should be given and what type of choice should be used for social development. Municipal economy is often accused of being not exactly the most sexy political theme, and there is no one other than local politicians and an inner circle on the Stortinget that has engaged in it. That question may be left unanswered. But municipal economy is not just about the finances of the municipalities, or the resources that local politicians have at their disposal. It's about the services that people who live in this country get. It's about caring for the old, about caring for the disabled, about the incentives for the young who go to kindergarten, and about the incentives for the young who go to school. It's about freedom, and it's very much about whether we're able to do something with the increasing differences in society. Since we put forward our proposal for a budget by the plural government, there have been some happy messages from at least our local populace. From Bærum says that they can now avoid depositing library branches. It may sound prosaic, but it's important for the old, for the young and for the immigrants who find a very important offer in these libraries. Meløy says they can reopen school pools over Christmas. So there are some school basins that are being filled with water. From Bodø I have been informed that they are betting in the school. They have, among other things: start a new building, they have increased symmetry teaching, and they generally increase when it comes to learning skills in school. They also point out that they do not now increase property and introduce property for those who have income below 2 G. It is essential in the fight against differences and in the fight against poverty. I have also received some more feedback. From Voss, from Harstad and from Glocken I have been thanked for the addition, now they don't cut. So I'm going to admit that there have been feedback from some municipalities where the situation is not so funny, and where one might be forced to look at how one disposes of his income next year. It is an expression of what we all know, that the municipalities have our food for hunger over the years, and therefore it is the point of the Soria Moria declaration that we are going to have a long-term plan for restoring the economic balance in the municipal sector, so unlikelyly important. So now we're going to take a first step on the road. It can be very serious in good humor. Christine Koht wrote a comment in the evening post his A-magazine last Friday where she celebrated the municipality. She chatted with New Public Management and the use of words associated with it in a way that was quite satisfying, but in which it was quite serious. He wrote: «In my past as a municipal employee in a nursing home, we had almost no such words. But otherwise only washed, fed and above all we talked to the old ones.» [[...]] There's something about the kind of quality we've seen in the services. This government has clear value options. We want a strong and effective public sector. We want people to have access to good services, that people should have real freedom of choice and that people should have real participation. Therefore, quality is important, therefore accessibility is important, and justice is important – and yes, economic efficiency is also important. It's a lot I should have been in; we have a large budget. But I've chosen to take this for myself, because this is an expression of a big ideological shift that happened after the election. We had three weeks to propose the budget to be adopted. This is a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e374	The President will not decide whether policy areas are sexy or not, but it is hardly a parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e379	Every year SV has had great faith in the immigration policy and integration policy pursued in this country. The solution has been more money for integration, without asking critical questions about how to use the money, as we saw when we dealt with the matter of reception in Lier. What was done there was to change the name from ‘outbound reception’ to ‘outbound reception’. That's the kind of grip you do, and I don't think it's going to be a good integration of. The SV note states that they ‘consider it appropriate to have a differentiated reception system’. Can I then read between the lines that they now consider having a closed reception – that is at least how I interpret it when using the words ‘differentiated reception system’ – or can the representative explain the word further?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e386	No, SV doesn't consider a closed reception system, and we don't consider the incarceration of people who have done what for ethnic Nordics will appear to be a very small lawbreak, such as. not to search for matches. I distance myself from the fact that our integration policy is about raising the most possible money for this purpose. Our integration policy, well advanced by the Soria Moria Declaration, is firstly about making demands and, secondly, about giving help. There was a good article in the Evening Post a few days ago on this very question. There was just one recital that pointed to this: we have to make demands for people, but we also have to give help. To leave people to themselves – that is, progress party politics, simply to treat everyone the same – does not result in good integration. So good integration is to have a qualitative good policy. It's not just about raising money for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e395	Government parties and SV continue to use the term ‘new course’. It's not always as easy to know what's meant. SV says in its programme that the batch wants to reduce opening hours and limit the use of the exemption provisions. Nevertheless, we were able to read in the Soria Moria Declaration that one in the public sector would actually extend the opening hours, which is also followed up by the Minister of Renewal from SV. In the newspaper on 4 December, she said that opening hours are a problem in the public sector and need to be better adapted to people’s needs. Today, on the other hand, SV is voting against the proposal to start with attempts at longer opening times in the public sector. Is SV's application still valid? Is that the Soria Moria statement we're going to deal with, or are it the statements of the Minister of Renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e404	As I would like to believe that the representative Kari Lise Holmberg is aware, the programme formulation is linked to the debate that took place about opening hours in connection with Pentecost – there were clashes between the trade union movement and the then seated government attached to it. So that's what the program formula is. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we attach great importance to people's access to quality services, to people's right to be advised, to people's right to have an impact on the services they receive. So in today's technological world, it should be absolutely possible to have services that are more accessible than they are today. It takes the government seriously. It is clear from the comment in the vote by the entire committee, and we do not need to adopt the proposal that the minority is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e413	The increased frameworks that are adopted today for the municipalities will – we hope – mean more teachers in school and more hands in the care service, and that is good. But we know that there will be a shortage of qualified staff both at school and in the care services. There is a lack of government policy here. In other areas, one is in private higher education who is training teachers and nurses. We need both the privately trained and the publicly trained teachers and nurses. How does this relate? Is it not true that we must both grant money and provide qualified staff if there is to be a better school and increased care?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e420	Of course it is. This is a problem that the Stortinget is aware of that the relevant specialist councils – that is, primarily the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Knowledge – take seriously, and they work with their own plans here. It shall not be classified under this Committee or under any of the State Councils present. It'll be taken seriously. Since we've been talking about it in the debate about it now, we won't notice any difference with these revenues: it's like today that the municipalities are using 30 pst. of their income to school and 40 pst. for health and care. But the previous government, supported by Bjørg Tørresdal, has fed the municipalities so much that very many municipalities are in a situation where the bottom is reached. There must be a signal from here today: now the bottom is reached, now we have to mark a change. It also applies in relation to the reply of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e427	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e430	The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Left, has a different overall budget for 2006 from that of the parties to the government. We wish, among other things: more money for cash support, for community action, for research and for health schools. We also give priority to tax relief, and we do so primarily to ensure jobs and value creation. In addition, we will stimulate increased activity in the voluntary sector and therefore increase the so-called gift deduction. However, the government of Stoltenberg does not follow up on any of these important areas, and we regret that in the Christian People's Party. In the case of the local economy, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left go in to increase the transfers to the municipalities by SEK 3.2 billion next year. The majority in this room want to strengthen the local economy by a further SEK 4.3 billion. We in the Christian People's Party are basically positive that the municipality's economy will be strengthened by DKK 7.5 billion in 2006. It allows municipalities to expand and improve the supply of children, school students, young people and the elderly. That's good! We want good kindergartens, a strong school, and many warm hands in the care of the elderly. We must create to share! That is why the Christian People's Party has supported tax relief to business in recent years. We have arranged conditions for more people to have a job, and for owners to bet on new products and concepts. This reduces the country's income in the short term, but we now see that the country's tax revenue as a whole is larger than ever. It is simply because the companies make more money and thus contribute more to the community. In order to ensure continued optimism and growth in business, it is necessary to keep a low interest rate and a low exchange rate. We hope that the new government will actively contribute to it. However, a sober, targeted and efficient public sector is also essential for the private initiative to be able to grow. The government assumes that the increased transfers to the municipalities will lead to more employees in the municipal sector. Insulatedly, this is good and good. However, we know that Norway will in the long term have a shortage of labour. Already today, there are several places in the country that are difficult to find out about health professionals. This can be solved to some extent by opening up labour to immigration, but in order to ensure enough hands to create values, growth in the public sector must be kept to a moderate level. In recent years, municipalities have made improvements in their efficiency. In the City Hall, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there should be a small and competent administration, so that as much resources as possible can be used to provide citizens with a good service. When the Government gives municipalities so much significant income growth, you can ask whether these efficiency processes will stop. I hope not. Nor do I hope that income growth will form the basis for a public sector wage fixing. The goal must be more and better services for each krona. The Christian People's Party believes that society is best built from below. We believe in local democracy, that those who wear the shoe know where it prints. This means that we trust our local people, and believe that they are making a wholehearted effort to ensure a good kindergarten, quality in school, a worthy care for the elderly, and a wide range of cultural services for all the municipality's inhabitants. That is why we want to give the municipalities good framework conditions. The dilemma is: no value creation, nothing to share. For the time being, the Stoltenberg government has been most concerned about sharing. If this continues, workplaces may be threatened. We need courageous business leaders who dare to bet, and governments must therefore facilitate innovation and innovation. The Christian People's Party will follow closely to ensure that we have the means to distribute in the future as well. The Municipal Committee is also responsible for immigration and integration policy. These are exciting and challenging policy areas, which will require the right back and mass courage of political authorities in the coming years. Norway is a multicultural and diverse society. The challenge ahead is to ensure that we can live well and peacefully with each of our peculiarities. A prerequisite for a good society is tolerance for diversity. Another assumption is zero tolerance for assault, repression of individuals or groups. The balance between what should and must be accepted and what should or should not be tolerated can be difficult. But the debates on this need to be taken – over and over again. It is important that we include representatives with a minority background in these discussions. In some areas, both legislation and changes in attitudes and traditions are needed. In the Christian People's Party, we look forward to the opening of the new Directorate of Integration and Diversity. We hope and believe that this agency will make a concrete contribution to a strengthened and more coordinated integration process. I would like to point out that in this room there is a clear distinction between the parties that want equality between people, and the party that relates exclusively to the square principles of equal offer to all regardless of assumptions and needs. The policies of the Progress Party in the field of immigration and integration are characterised by prohibitions, injunctions, penalties and mistrust. The party claims to be against discrimination but does not recognise that, in order to achieve real equality between people, special measures are sometimes needed. The consequences of the policy of the Progress Party in this area are different opportunities for people, depending on ethnic origin and religious affiliation. Such a policy is remote from the Christian People's Party. It is our duty as politicians and as citizens to deal with the immigrant population with an individual focus. It is obvious that a person with disabilities is to be offered an organised offer. Similar approaches must also be adopted to foreigners residing in Norway. It is worrying that the Progress Party does not recognise this. Although the Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party disagree on several issues of immigration and integration policy, we agree on the importance of diversity among organisations dealing with issues of immigration and integration. The challenges of integration are many and complex, and therefore social actors in the voluntary sector are needed to provide knowledge and to propose measures based on different approaches. Last fall, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party agreed that the Human Rights Service organisation should be continued as a fixed arrangement. The background for this was just the desire for diversity, as mentioned. We hope the Government will follow up this intention during the distribution of funds by item 71. The remarks in the budget statement of the Municipal Committee show disagreement between the government parties and the opposition on several points. I would like to mention that we disagree with the continuation of the Husleietvist Committee. The scheme is dreadfully expensive, and is paid by cutting in the housing allowance to everyone. Such a priority is difficult to defend. We disagree with the ten-million-dollar government cuts. kr in the transfers to SIVA and are concerned that this will reduce support for key innovation actions. We also disagree on the priority of extending the period of operation to existing farms rather than establishing new ones. We would also like to stress that the Committee has found itself together in many cases. It is positive and provides a good basis for further cooperation on important issues. I will end by referring to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e484	Former Prime Minister Bondevik has stated that much of the decline to the Christian People's Party was due to the fact that many voters were not satisfied with the Christian People's Party's profile in areas such as taxation and municipal economy. The government of Stoltenberg has increased the free resources of the municipalities by a total of NOK 5.7 billion, which is in line with the Christian People's Party's election promise to balance the municipal economy. The representative of Tørresdal has, among other things: both in their contribution today and in Sandnesposten earlier this week, the importance of a good municipal economy. Does this mean that the representative Tørresdal is more satisfied with what the government of Stoltenberg has done in the field than with its former government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e494	The representative Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party are very happy for every krone that goes to welfare, for every krone that goes to school, for a better care and for a worthy care for the elderly. And we agree with the Government in the increased transfers, but we disagree with the discovery of these. As regards tax relief, which was also mentioned in the reply, we agree that tax relief to business contributes to creating and securing jobs. The dilemma is the balance between these two. We want to give more to the municipalities, while at the same time wanting to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e501	In the election campaign, we were delighted to meet local representatives from the Christian People's Party and, in fact, representatives from the Left who were concerned that the local economy had to improve, because the government had not been able to get good enough. After the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party last year, Jon Lilletun said that now a good budget had become even better. The answer from Bjørg Tørresdal to Saera Khan states that the Christian People's Party is pleased that this government is increasing transfers to the municipalities, but that they are also too tax-free. How does one give priority? What's at the top of the priority list, and what's at the top of the two? Is the representative Tørresdal in agreement that this is not a question of what we can afford, or what we want, but that it is actually a priority issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e512	I would like to repeat my answer. Tax bills create workplaces. For example, we're increasing. The depreciation rate, where this government has chosen not to go along with our proposal, in order to improve the economy in business. There are a number of proposals to business that we are very happy with and with easy heart support, because we believe that good framework conditions will provide income and increased well-being. It's hard to say where the boundary goes for a good local economy. We've seen that spending is increasing a lot in the municipal sector, and it's been a challenge, because despite the fact that we've been increasing transfers to municipalities for many years now, the price tag in the municipalities has increased more. It also wants the Christian People's Party to take seriously, and therefore we are pleased with increased funds for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e519	It was very good in the post to Bjørg Tørresdal, although the ends were not always the best, I think. There was one thing that surprised me at the end of the post, and it was that the Christian People's Party has suddenly become a hot speech party for the Human Rights Service organization. It hasn't come out in the setting, and it surprises me very much. It also surprises me that when they are so for that organisation, they did not join in a comment in relation to the Norwegian Federation of Well-being. Does the Christian People's Party now believe that the Human Rights Service, which is a narrow organization and very controversial, is more important than the Norwegian Federation of Wellbeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e526	What is important for the Christian People's Party is to ensure a diversity of organisations and not just to provide support to those organisations that are agreed upon at all stages, but to ensure diversity, so that there are many speakers who receive state aid. State aid may be granted either as a separate item on the State budget or through a pooling item where aid is sought. This was meant to encourage the fulfilment of previous obligations. We have said that we want to give all organisations an equal chance to apply for support from the state budget. So we've encouraged the Government to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e533	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e536	The first part of the escalation plan to strengthen local welfare has been implemented. Over the course of a few harvest days, the government has been able to implement a historic promise for the municipal sector – a promise that gives municipalities a total of DKK 5.7 billion more, a promise that is a first step in strengthening the local school and improving the care of the elderly. I want to give some local examples of what this promise means. Let me start with a pretty close area. Nittedal municipality gets 11 million. kr more, but the representative of the Progress Party, Thomsen, from Nittedal says no to the increased free revenues. Stavanger Municipality gets $66 million. kr extra to solve local challenges, but the representative from the Right said no to this promise. Skien kommune gets $31 million. kr extra, but formerly the Right-Rapporteur, the representative Kari Lise Holmberg, said no. Lardal's got $3 million. kr extra, but fortunately some say yes, and former working party rapporteur Dag Terje Andersen says yes. Karasjok municipality, on the other hand, also gets 3 million. kr more, but what says the Left-Representative Vera Lysklätt, just from Karasjok? She says no. The beautiful coastal municipality of Selje, located in the middle of the ocean, also receives 3 million. NOK extra, SEK 3 million. kr which can be used to strengthen the local school and to strengthen care for the elderly, and they can be used to market tourist destinations in Selje, but the representative Åge Starheim of Selje and the Progress Party say no to the free revenues. I know that the rapporteur of the Christian People's Party in Selje says yes, but she does not get support in her own party, because the representative of the Christian People's Party, Bjørg Tørresdal, says no to Selje. She also says no to her own municipality, Sandnes. She doesn't think it's right that Sandnes should get $33 million. Extra kroner. It must be a small paradox for some local Christian People's Party representatives. Harstad municipality gets 14 million. kr extra, but former chairman of Harstad, the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen, says no to increased free revenues, says no that those who live in Harstad can decide for themselves what they want to spend the money on. Fortunately, however, the representative Elvik of the Socialist Left Party and the representative Vedum of the Central Party have agreed that Bø will receive 2.5 million. kr more, that Stange will get $12 million. Extra kroner. Fortunately, there is a majority in the United Kingdom who say yes that all the municipalities of the country will have a historic promise, a promise that is absolutely necessary. Many are pleased that the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party say yes – many in all parties, in the Right, in the Christian People's Party, in the Advance Party, in the Left. We are pleased with the broad support we receive outside the storeroom. People know that this year's promise is the first of a four-year escalation plan to strengthen local welfare. Our objective is geographical and social cohesion. This year's municipal planning is a step in the right direction to achieve this goal. The municipalities are better able to solve their tasks, solve their tasks close to people, solve their tasks by ensuring a good school, providing a worthy care for the elderly, and putting in place the cultural home that some people think is so terrible that you, for example, have. built in Åmot. I'll take a little example from my neighboring municipality, Løten. What are they going to take at 4.7 million? Is that what you're looking for? Three million. kr goes to school, 1 million. kr goes to care, and the last 700000 kr goes to culture and other minor purposes in the municipality. So the promise of the local economy works. The promise has turned us from more to more private consumption to more to the community. In addition to strengthening the municipal economy, the Government has granted 120 million. D to an early regional policy initiative. We take our words seriously. We have our goal of geographical and social cohesion. We've taken social cohesion through a clear boost for the municipalities. We also take geographical cohesion seriously through a clear boost to regional policy instruments. Fortunately, people understood that it's not just tax havens that make life better. Fortunately, people thought bigger. Now we see the result of a new majority, a new majority that has the heart of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e556	There must have been a certain shift in the memory of the last speaker when he owes me for not having supported a development that will make a positive impact on my municipality of home, Selje. I know about the situation in Selje and have received good support that we want to secure the money to go to health and care. It is the health department in Selje that each year has a deficit of between 3 and 4 million. kr. I think the money's going to go to what we want. I have a question for the representative that goes on what is stated in the Soria Moria statement that one will introduce a system of fruit and vegetables in the school and set up a test scheme of scalding food. Does the representative feel well when one today records that there has been an extra charge on the milk used by the school and that one is financing this with additional charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e563	It is a well-known matter that the centre party is not happy that the food tax is being increased. But we had to make some priorities in the year's budget, and that priority was that we would raise the municipal economy. We were able to do that, and the matmoms increased by 2 pst. But we're going to work to reduce it. It was the Center Party that in its time was also responsible for halving it. It's part of the story, too. We've been in power for a few months now. Of course, we haven't been able to implement everything in the last two months. But what we have done is to get a solid uplift for the municipalities. I'm very pleased with that. Then comes part of the other promises later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e570	The representative, Slagsvold Vedum, drew up Stavanger as an example of a municipality that has received more. That's right. Stavanger was also one of the municipalities that won most over the four years with the Bondevik II government. Among other things Stavanger won 90 million. kr for the conversion of corporation tax, which the current government has notified that they will review. I just want to remind you that, among other things, The centre party voted against that conversion. Another thing Stavanger has earned is that the municipal taxpayer has increased. But the current government has reduced the municipal taxpayer. This is quite alarming, because the Centre Party programme says that it will ‘strengthen the municipal sector through more free financial resources, primarily by increasing the municipality’s share of the taxpayer’. The exact same sentence has also been promoted as Proposal No. 7 in this case, and the Central Party has announced that they will vote against it. How will Schlagsvold Vedum explain that the Senterpartiet will vote against its own programme, thus affecting a number of municipalities, among others. Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e580	This year, the municipal taxpayer is 13.2. Next year, it's going to be 13.3. So we've increased the municipal taxpayer. We have warned that during the spring we will go through the income system to look at the whole. That's why we think it's wrong to make big changes now. We want an overall review to see how it turns out. The conversion of the tax system in the previous period made it possible to take from someone and give to others, among other things. to Stavanger Municipality when they got 19 million. extra for the conversion of operating taxes. We want an overall review to see how it turns out, and then we'll make new proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e589	The Christian People's Party is engaged in a good district policy. In the election campaign, we heard from the Center Party that a new course would mean a whole new district policy, a much more active district policy. We would end what under the Bondevik II government was characterised as a negative development. There would be something much more active on the regional policy front if the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV got a majority. Is the Central Party satisfied with the new course in district policy? What wasn't done in these three weeks that the Central Party could expect to do, to get an active district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e596	When we talk about district policy, we have to talk about the big district policy. What's important when you're going to have a good place to live and a good local environment? Well, first of all, you have a good local hospital. And what does the Soria Moria statement say, and what has the Government established? No local hospital shall be closed. I'm very pleased with that. The other important thing is that the municipality has a good service offer, including the small municipalities, and therefore the government has granted 1 1/2 million. extra NOK to municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. It means a lot to a municipality like this. Engerdal, with the distances that are there. So we are well pleased with the main thinking of the Government's approach, where you can see how to use the whole country, and how to take into account regional policy in the big policy as well. We see that it's just a start, but we're happy with that start, raised by 120 million. kr in direct regional instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e613	I would like to start my speech by ensuring that the rapporteurs and local politicians of the Left will be pleased with the extra money that will be made available to municipalities in 2006. Municipalities are the country’s main providers of education and welfare services, and increased economic space is obviously positive. The left has always prioritised municipalities within a policy that precisely balances spending money and creating new ones for public welfare. We did this both under the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments. In the latter case, after a necessary cleaning up of the economy, more effort was made on the municipalities than any other government had done until then. But it is with the municipalities as with others; it is more than pure income that counts: the framework conditions around, such as the prices of what to buy, interest on money that is borrowed, the income flow forward, etc. The municipal sector is large, and it must necessarily be integrated into a comprehensive economic policy. We have seen economic uplifting disappear in increased wages, in the absence of change and renewal, in increased expenditure in a galloping social economy. Therefore, it is not just to shout hallelujah until one has seen the effects in total. The small and innovative enterprises are the very precondition for further municipal and state welfare, and it remains to be seen how well they will be in the future. The left is in front of local democracy. It is vital for the entire government of the people of our country that it is anchored locally. It contributes to recruitment, insight and experience, participation and involvement. Without this basic wall of local communities, democracy will be confused. They're the closest ones, the ones with the shoe on, who know best where it prints. It's the local politicians who meet the pickers at the store, and it's those who know best if it's the school or the nursing home that needs the most money for next year. The central party is probably the party closest to the Left in the view of the importance of local democracy, and I am pleased with the emphasis of the municipal minister on this. I therefore hope that the Government maintains the obvious fact that the wit is evenly distributed in the country, and that local democracy requires local freedom to make different choices. There has now been an election campaign where there has been a commitment to school and health, and it is therefore to be expected that this will now be followed up locally in the whole country. It's e.g. an enormous need for upgrading school facilities and the construction of new places in the country, as a result of a large lag in maintenance over many, many years. There is a strong interest in the interest-rate compensation scheme. Therefore, more projects than at present should receive funding from this scheme. It's enough here to refer to my home country, Finnmark, where we have school facilities built right after the war, with the demands of the time for materials use and indoor climate, and which are completely worn out. The suspension of the Municipal and Management Committee also concerns Sami matters. I am pleased that the Government maintains the appropriations for Sami purposes proposed by the Bondevik Government in its 2006 government budget. The initiative in Sami language and information on Sami relations is thus continued. In addition, we will have a further investment in the Competence Centre for the Rights of Native Peoples and the Resource Centre for Natural and Recreational Services, and a government loan will be granted for the establishment of the Finnmark Property. The Finnish National Board of Directors has now been selected, and the Finnish Law will enter into force during the second quarter of next year. The right, Christian People's Party and Left have also wanted to highlight the importance of the extension project at Saemien Sijte, the Southern Sami cultural centre in Snåsa, starting in 2007. We have a great responsibility to take care of and further develop the fragile Southern Sami culture. We live in a multicultural society, and many years of immigration has given the country the necessary new labour force and many positive impulses. This is often overshadowed by focusing on problems related to immigration and integration, but is nevertheless the correct picture. In the future too, we need immigrants, not least in order to have sufficient labour force in the health and care sector. Higher life expectancy and lower birth rates lead to an increase in the number of older persons compared to the number of persons in working age. It is therefore expected that twice as many hours of work will be required in the municipal care service in 2060 as in 2000. We must therefore create a social climate that is inclusive and building, and that allows foreigners to feel welcome and valued here with us. The left is pleased with the many positive steps taken by the Bondevik government in this field, not least the ‘Mangfold through inclusion and participation’. This was in total a strong and important message of value, which a large majority in the United Kingdom could stand behind. We therefore have expectations of a continued positive and inclusive immigration and integration policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e639	It is nice to hear the representative from the Left boast that the Center Party is occupied by local democracy. That's right. So that's good. But I have a question. Kjell Säther, rapporteur in Karasjok, is very pleased that Karasjok municipality received 3 million. kr more. I think the representative Lightclothes is a bit heavy today to vote against the municipality of Karasjok getting 3 million. kr more, and that Finnmark County, which needs it, will get 12.7 million. kr more?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e646	The representative of Slagsvold Vedum mentions the need for money in the municipality of Karasjok. I know very well how he has operated that municipality for many periods. Politics is about priority, and we hardly have any school facility in Finnmark that is as worn out as what we have in Karasjok. Karasjok also needs a business policy that gives new small businesses, and not, as the Government does, is troubling those we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e653	The municipalities are one of the most important — perhaps the most important — welfare producers in Norway. A good community economy will allow municipalities to provide good services in schools, kindergartens, health and care. The Left Party has traditionally been a party engaged in the creation of good Community solutions. How, then, can the Left support a municipal scheme that will give municipalities significantly less opportunity than the one set up by the government of Stoltenberg to fulfil its role as a service provider?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e660	The left is a lot dedicated to creating good Community solutions. But for the Left, the world is not black and white. That is why the Left is a real centre party. We are followers of a strong public sector, while at the same time being concerned that the total budget line is such that we also get values for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e666	I am very pleased that the representative Vera Lyskleut took up Sami questions as wide as she did in her post, and pleased that the Left has noticed that this is an effort that the plural government has reinforced. We understand that there are various things happening on the civil side of politics, and in this debate the Progress Party has come with an outstretched hand to the other bourgeois parties. How does the representative Lyskleatt see that there will be cooperation with the Progress Party on common policies, both in budgetary matters and in other types of matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e673	I'm really happy to get that question, because I think it's very sad and regrettable that the Progress Party is so very blatant about this with Sami questions. We need a special focus on Sami relationships. Otherwise, I'm very concerned that both language and culture will quickly die out, with the external influence we have all the time. The left has made it clear that government cooperation with the Progress Party is not possible because of the distance from politics. This is particularly true in relation to the environment, immigration and the economy, and not least in relation to common policies. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e681	It is nice for a municipal and regional minister to be able to provide a solid framework for municipalities, districts and housing for 2006. In all of these areas, we're on our way, but we're not in the end at all. In the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we have no tradition of spreading champagne bottles or standing on our hands, but we enjoy a number of pleasant visits from all over the municipality of Norway every day. They spread all over the spectrum, from relief – that you breathe a little bit easier around – and to what I actually want to mention as enthusiasm. These enquiries come from parties of all political deportations. And as I said, it's a long way to go before we can say that we've achieved our goal in terms of the local economy, which is to find the balance between the tasks that municipalities have and the money that they have at their disposal. But one of the achievements we have achieved through the municipal structure we are now presenting, which means a strengthening of free revenues of SEK 5.7 billion from 2005 to 2006, is to contribute to creating optimism around the municipality of Norway. People get the belief that there is some point in engaging in local politics. They get back the belief that they should be able to get the space they want for action so that they can serve their inhabitants in the best possible way. And not least, the scheme we are now presenting to the municipalities means that many people are getting back to belief in local democracy. The growth in free income that we have posted will benefit all municipalities. However, the government has chosen to benefit the small municipalities in the districts with an additional increase through the regional grant, which is just under 1.6 million. kr per. municipality. This is, of course, a very conscious priority, and it is a priority that must be seen in the light of the clear objective we have of creating equivalent living conditions throughout the country, and that we should be able to give people freedom of choice in relation to where they are going to live. Many people have asked questions about how the municipalities will spend the extra money. We have very strong expectations that the money will be used for more hands of care, that there will be more teachers, that there will be greater efforts for voluntary teams and associations, and that we will be able to address the prevention work around the municipality of Norway. But it is a fact that the municipalities have been starving for so long that the needs go far beyond what we have been able to deliver in this round. But let's be clear: Sick if there are municipalities now using money to improve their financial position, which cuts and reduce deficits, it can be the smartest thing to do in that municipality. We have faith that Norwegian local government representatives are doing what is smartest, what is wisest, in the municipality in which they live. And in any case, it's so wonderful in Norway that if local politicians don't make the priorities and make the choices that people in the municipality think are wisest, then we'll have to kick them out of the elections in about a year and a half. But there is no other way to run sensible management in Norway than to trust those chosen to do the job. So in the municipalities, it's the municipal government representatives. I'm talking all the way to the municipalities. I had basically thought that I should have also said a good deal about district policy. Because with this budget, we have also laid the groundwork for addressing district policy and making the rural policy promise mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is that we can use funds to make a special effort in some areas, such as: in the field of culture and nutrition, shall do to small communities. But the important thing is that we get the integrated district perspective in all sectoral policies, and that we are able to coordinate government policies better than we have done in the past. We're happy to catch up to that part as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e699	I read in the Nation that property taxes are required ‘as never before’. Although the municipalities have now transferred more than NOK 5 billion, Kommune-Norway continues to impose property taxes. 249 municipalities have now introduced property taxes, and they charge NOK 3.5 billion. Here you give 5 billion with one hand, and then you take back from the locals 3.5. Then my question is: The government says that they spend a lot on families with children – large. Is it then the smartest thing to introduce property taxes when it's just the families of children who have to pay this bill of NOK 3.5 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e706	The government believes that property tax should be a voluntary tax. A local person shall be able to decide whether or not to have it. But it is a fact that because the municipalities have been starving for years, there are a number of municipalities that have felt compelled to introduce property taxes. They have had to do it against their will. What is at least very clear is that if we had laid down the Bondevik administration's arrangements for the municipal sector, there would have been a lot more municipalities that would have felt just forced to introduce property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e713	The government is now working on a follow-up to the so-called NAV reform, which includes: shall look at the different social benefits and benefits, inter alia. directed towards the poor. In the NAV reform, it is essential that municipalities continue to have a high level of responsibility for ensuring the situation for those in need of additional assistance. For this reason, it has been argued that social support schemes should remain municipal. But in yesterday's Stavanger Aftenblad, the head of Stortinget's Labour and Social Committee, Karin Andersen, takes the order to raise, legislate and state the social aid rates. It is therefore necessary to clarify whether it is the government's policy that municipalities should lose their current responsibility for social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e720	I do not know the article in Stavanger Aftenblad to which it is referred from the representative, and therefore I am not able to comment on it either. It is not within the government's policy that any fundamental changes should be made to the tasks of municipalities in this area either. But I note that the representative Höie in all his speeches, in all his lines, has today duly avoided mentioning what is the most important theme of this debate, that is, what is going on in the economy of the municipalities. It amazes me. It is obvious that if the municipalities are also to be able to provide good service to those people who have special needs, we must actually be able to strengthen the local economy. That's the basis for the service we're also going to give to those who have the most demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e725	The Christian People's Party has positive and high expectations for the Central Party and the Council of State in terms of district policy. Now they didn't say much about district policy, but I want to give the Council a new opportunity to say a few words about it. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, said that the centre party is satisfied with 120 million. in direct regional aid for this State budget. In the election campaign we heard about much bigger numbers and higher expectations from the Center Party. So my question to the Council of State is, is the Council of State satisfied with 120 million dollars? Do you really want to delete this item? A little more question: Earlier today, I have asked how to solve the shortage of skilled labour when one is about to have so many more hands in school and in care services. Isn't it a good idea not to cut private colleges and conduct a comprehensive government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e734	Nothing more pleases me than to have the opportunity to say a little more about district policy. Specifically to the question from the representative Tørresdal: I do not think she will be surprised that I say that the 120 million. As we have added extra to regional policy measures, we are very pleased that we have got in place, but it is quite obvious that we have higher ambitions on behalf of district policy than we have now. That's 120 million. kr is that we can start a series of important measures where it will be possible to replenish money later. It is, of course, a fact that regional policy has been at a standstill for so long that there is a need to address this fundamental issue, not least by launching new projects. Then it is important that we get started with the coordination process that we have also announced in the budget document. A separate Regional Policy Board has been appointed, and it will help to ensure that we get the district perspective across sectoral policies. It is when we succeed in the broad rural policy that we will be able to succeed in rural policy in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e744	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e747	It is with great interest that I listen to the representatives from the Red-Greens. The rhetoric and self-esteem of the budget are clear – you are very pleased. Norway has never seen a better budget. Yes, self - blame comes mostly from the heart. Here's a lot of the difference in reality. In the debate, it has been expressed that there is evidence from the Kommune-Norway that there is a great deal of satisfaction with the new and added funds that have now been given. The Progress Party agrees that the municipalities need funds. However, we have received feedback not only from rapporteurs and local politicians, but also from residents living in the municipalities, among others. a notice of concern from the inhabitants also in the municipality of Nittedal. The municipality has got 11 million. kr in free funds, which have not gone to what the Government has promised to do, namely 40 pst. to school, 60 pst. to care. That's the message we got. But you use the rhetoric today and say, "We can't keep all the promises, but we have at least avoided cuts!" In my view, the municipalities on the ROBEK list have to pay off debts before they can dispose of free revenues. There are differences in Municipalities-Norway, sometimes large as well. Yes, they are so big that it is said to be 30 pst. better provision of services in some municipalities than in others. This is a fundamental problem for Kommune-Norway. When the government parties do not want to earmark funds to the municipalities to ensure that the funds are used for what they are promised to be used, the elderly care services must be legalised so that all older people can receive the same offer regardless of the municipality in which they live. As I said, the rhetoric of the red-greens is that free money should preferably go to school and care. Yeah, are we so sure about that? The Progress Party, with its budget, can really guarantee that money goes to the elderly and school, not to cultural houses, town halls, high remunerations for rapporteurs or to pay off debts. But the government can't guarantee this. That said, Norway is a good country to live in, but there are some groups that are still struggling in their everyday lives. It is precisely these groups that the Progress Party has prioritised in its alternative budget. The Progress Party is pleased to note that the action programme for Oslo inner East has been very successful. The Progress Party now sees a clear need for the focus to be moved to Søndre Nordstrand and Groruddalen. Therefore, the forwarding party increases the entry by 25 million. kr in its alternative budget. We record that the government does not see that this has been an equally successful project, and does not want to bet as much as the Progress Party does. The Progress Party is of the opinion that increased productivity in the construction industry is a responsibility and a task that is not to be undertaken by the State. Private actors need to find the forms of work and methods that they themselves think are good. The Progress Party has been positive to a public electronic communications system in planning and construction matters, namely ConstructionSearch. ConstructionSearch is an important tool to improve productivity in planning and construction matters, but I am afraid that a one-sided focus on ConstructionSearch can result in the process in each municipality really becoming a plug in the system. That's the experience of a lot of people. I would also like to refer to the policy of the Progress Party on the closure of the Sameting, and the party is reducing the chapter by 99 million. kr in its alternative draft budget. The Progress Party disagrees with the co-qualification of the term «unpopulation» and considers that the conventions and laws on which the Stortinget laid down the establishment of the Sametinge do not really require a merger. This policy is about the Progress Party alone, but we are going to continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e764	The government will conduct a humane and solidarity refugee and asylum policy based on the principles of legal certainty. For the legitimacy of the institution of asylum, it is essential that they be given asylum if necessary and that foreigners who have been refused asylum are returned quickly. Large resources are used to stay in reception and for forced emigration with the police by persons who have received final rejection of the asylum application. In the case of voluntary travel, the funds may instead be used for the integration and inclusion of asylum seekers remaining in Norway. The arrival of asylum seekers from some countries can be seen in the context of difficult returns to these countries. We want to focus on measures that motivate voluntary return, such as: aid for reintegration in the home Member State. We also want to establish agreements with several countries on the withdrawal of own citizens in order to carry out more returns. Such agreements enable returns to be made in a predictable, safe and prompt manner. It may also be appropriate to engage in cooperation projects with the countries of origin. On the basis of this, the government will increase the return effort by 10 million. kr. Efforts towards unemployment and inclusion in the world of work are central to the Government. It's the biggest tool to combat poverty. The government is proposing to grant 100 million. to reintroduce the integration grant for family reunification to persons with a humanitarian residence for three years after their residence. By reintroducing the right and obligation of the introduction programme for this group, the Government will ensure an effective and targeted qualification for the Norwegian community and labour market. Family reunions are mostly women, and the action will help women with a minority background to be treated as independent persons with their own rights to information, language training, education and work. The measure also provides a basis for faster settlement and will allow for an increase in the allowance for transfer refugees in the long term. In the case of long-term residents who are outside the labour market and depend on social assistance, the Government will grant 20 million. to the qualification programme which will give them a new chance to get into the labour market. In order for children with poor language development to be better able to participate in regular school education and to participate in social activities in line with other children, the Government has re-prioritized 10 million. kr for trial of free core time in kindergarten for all children in areas with a high proportion of minority language children. The offer will cover all children in areas where it is introduced, but it is particularly important that minority-speaking children receive such an offer in kindergarten the year before they begin school. The measure is in addition to the government spending 10 million. kr for language mapping of 4-year-olds at health centres. As the first municipality outside the Northern Sami language area, Tysfjord municipality is integrated into the Sami language management area from 1 January 2006. Thus, the Government pursues its objective of pursuing a common policy that contributes to the security of Sami languages, culture and society. It will be set at 3 million within the discretion of the municipalities. kr for the purpose in 2006. For the establishment of a research and documentation activity on the frontier unemployed in Tysfjord, the Government proposes that it be set at 1 million. kr already now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e784	The 2006 state budget cut all subsidies to one of the few organisations that have taken up problems in immigration to Norway, namely the Human Rights Service. It is difficult for the Progress Party to interpret it as something other than a tack to frustrate or silence what is serious and constructive criticism of the Government's immigration and integration policy. The question to the Council of State is therefore: Is the Council of State comfortable putting one of the few organisations that put a serious and critical search light on Norwegian immigration and integration policies in practice in a liberal democracy, while at the same time transferring significant funds to pure stakeholder organisations for immigrants, or will he take the initiative of re-allocation of Human Rights Service funds over the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e789	I believe that the Human Rights Service represents a very important voice in the immigration debate in Norway. I have already had meetings with the organisation, and I think it was both useful and fruitful. I believe that the approach they have to many things is very important that we get there – just as there are very many other important organisations that represent other important views in a comprehensive debate on refugee, immigration and integration policy. That's why we have a common grant line for these organisations, which have a lot of different approaches, whether they represent pure immigrant organisations or other organisations working in the field. The Human Rights Service is cordially welcome to apply for support from that post. The application is, of course, to be dealt with properly, but I think it would be wrong to have a separate post on the government budget for this particular organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e796	In the Right, we join the priority of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in resolving the problems of the world's refugees. In addition, the Bondevik II Government made close international cooperation to achieve the objectives set for refugee and immigration policy. Cards can be mentioned both in the Schengen cooperation and in the Dublin acquis. The SV and the Central Party have long unilaterally wanted to place greater emphasis on the opinions of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The 2006 government budget lists all government parties in this regard. It is part of the story that in those cases where the previous government made decisions that were not completely identical to those of the High Commissioner, it was on the basis of its own competence and after an overall assessment. Is it the case that the Council of State also now believes that one should disregard one's own competence in matters of refugee and immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e805	When government parties say that greater emphasis should be placed on UNHCR recommendations, this does not mean that only those recommendations should be taken into account. But we're very concerned about having a dialogue with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees that turns into a policy that is more important than before. I would like to say that it will not least be important in terms of how many quota refugees we are going to receive – we know that the High Commissioner has wanted us from Norway to receive more than we have done in recent years. That's why the government has also said that our ambition is that we should gradually increase the number of quota refugees, from the current level of 1000 to the first round of 1500 – not least because we focus more on recommendations from the UN High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e810	The Christian People's Party has positive expectations that the Government will pursue a good immigration and integration policy. We see that the Government is continuing much of the Bondevik II government's policy in this area. This requires a tight and fair policy. We have a challenge for those who are now going to sit in wait reception. What measures does the Council of State see it going to take to ensure that the waiting receptions function according to its intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e817	In the case of waiting receptions, we will primarily add up to an activity related to motivating for departure. The waiting reception is for those who have received a final refusal to apply for a stay, and much of the reason why they are unable to be expelled is that they are, for example, unable to do so. refuses to cooperate in their own field of departure. Then you have to press on here in relation to the fact that there is a final rejection, and that the only option is therefore exit. We must seek to motivate it, if necessary seek to contribute to measures that make him aware that he has to leave the country. Otherwise, the reception must have a very sober standard, so that the reception itself does not work against its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e824	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e828	Today, the new government parties naturally bring a visible joy to the municipalities in this state budget. In this regard, I want to take some moments for myself. Firstly, I would like to say that, in isolation, it is good that the local government sector is provided with more funds. This is a good continuation of the strengthening undertaken by the Bondevik II government to correct the imbalance in the municipal sector. In 2004 and 2005, the bulk of the population increased the free income of municipalities by over 7 billion kroner. The revenue growth rate in 2004 was the highest since 1997, and the financial structure for the current year – 2005 – has resulted in a continued real growth in the income of the municipal sector. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are therefore far above targets with their black paint on the municipal economy during the previous ageing period. My second comment is on the Government's assumption that the increase in free resources is mainly used to strengthen the important areas of care for the elderly and school. In the Right, we support this. Both care for the elderly and school are our top priority areas, and we, like Councillor Åslaug Haga, have faith that the municipalities are using the funds in a sensible way. For us, it is important to strengthen local democracy. We will give the municipalities more responsibility and greater freedom. Decisions shall be taken more closely by the users. It ensures the basis on which services will be better adapted to users and their needs. It is the local politicians who go around the population every day, and it is the local politicians who have the best conditions for using resources properly. The size should primarily facilitate conditions for the local government sector. My third point is that it is probably an illusion to believe that the challenges of the local government sector will only be solved through the annual budgetary procedures. Growth in income is important, but the ability and willingness of municipalities to convert and modernise is equally important. Right expect municipalities themselves to be willing to look critically at their own situation, make necessary changes and prioritize tasks. A lot of people do that, too. In the drama, for example, The right rapporteur turned a negative trend, and in Oslo there is a willingness to change and then act. Then it is definitely worse with municipalities in my own home state, Telemark. In the socialist-driven municipalities, according to state resources, the will for structural measures has been low. In my home municipality of Skien, the majority of politicians have even decided in their political platform, a local edition of the Soria Moria Declaration, that competitive outsourcing should be stopped. The Soria Moria statement unfortunately bears the same command. There is every reason to fear that the modernisation work to which the Bondevik II government provided, not only is confusing, but is even being reversed. I'm very skeptical about the direction the government is going in. Already in this draft state budget, the Government Parties are following up the Soria Moria Declaration by stating that the outsourcing of welfare services should be avoided. There is every reason to call the alarm. The government's policy will hardly make the people's meeting with the public simpler. Nor can I see that there is a willingness to release resources to strengthen the welfare offer. Instruments such as competition, free user choice and various forms of public and private cooperation should not be excluded for ideological reasons. It should be more important to focus on the objective of ensuring the well-being of all citizens than to be unilateral in preventing the use of different instruments. Changes are necessary. Even today's version of the Municipal Report confirms that previous surveys have shown that there are enormous differences in the provision of services in municipalities. It turns out that even among municipalities with the same income base, the differences are large. One should not look blindly at the figures in statistical tables, but it would be foolish to close its eyes to the importance of the political will of the municipalities to adopt changes in the systems for the benefit of users, for that is the case, and not primarily of public employees and trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e845	Some people live in the belief that starvation is the best way to generate creativity, and sometimes try to present it as if in many Norwegian municipalities there is hardly a single new thought since the Bräh broke the staff. Such productions often come from a political perspective, where the extent of competitive outsourcing and privatisation is essentially a measure of effectiveness. The person who has not made use of the portfolio of bright opportunities has to thank himself if things are bad. Hunger feeding can also be a rather effective policy strategy to increase the uptake of private solutions. We have a more modern policy for innovation, based on what is the basis of our policy: that everyone is given equal opportunities and the same security. The mechanisms of the market are not suitable for performing important tasks in the field of education, health and care in a community of solidarity. Attempts to create markets for welfare services therefore often lead to costly, bureaucratic and impractical solutions. We will further develop a welfare offer that has confidence in the population, in close interaction with users and employees. The second largest game of the big game shall not be accused of being prominent supporters for those who are really trying to think new. In its comments, the Progress Party shows that many municipalities have been too little innovative and innovative. But what do they do to those who try to go ahead – as the municipality of Uppland? In its budget line, the Progress Party raised 37 million. kr in the project Free of charge. Thus, they are evading a project that has aroused great national interest; a project that is just about spending money smarter from a holistic priority. Clearly, the Progress Party does not believe that elected representatives are as well-suited as the sectored state to deal with regional development funds. But worse than that: With a pen stroke, the Progress Party is thus draining my home state Uppland for all regional and district policy instruments. This is money that every county gets, but it's only spent in a different way in Uppland. I will not let the Party of Advancement influence my mind in exorcism, but this really provokes. For example, the proposals of the Progress Party would be: have meant that Innovation Norway in Uppland would be without both the regional development grant and the innovation programme. Aetat would have lost 20 million. kr for labour market measures, and it would not have been an ear in contributions to municipal labour funds. There is little evidence to suggest that the Progress Party has found it appropriate to do particularly deep things in the facts of the case. I don't think the case presentation is particularly exemplary. This is really serious in many ways. Either SV, excuse the Advancement Party – the necessary correction, I looked at SV, we have a good eye to each other in the red-green wing – should admit very bad political craftsmanship, or at least they should give Uppland an explanation of why the county has been deleted from the Norway map to the country's second largest party in terms of such important instruments. There is a lot of exciting development work going on in the municipal sector, including: a good example of the effectiveness of the KS network. I feel confident that the Government in its renewal work will draw exchangers at best in various such studies and projects and present this to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. Also, the previous government parties would like to appear to be a bit engaged in efficiency improvement. But from the government offices they created a new profession – VAT compensation workers. Several hundred annual works in Kommune-Norway agree to administer this VAT compensation scheme. Of course, those who do it do an important job, so that their municipality does not lose too much money. But there won't be much more well-being of it, to say it like that. The great extra work and red tape of the previous government here has created is just one of several reasons to review that system again. We also need to look at different other schemes that are important to many municipalities, such as the host municipality grant and the top-level funding scheme related to particularly resource-intensive users. We see it as such that this, in particular the top-level funding scheme, is schemes that must be earmarked. Otherwise, we are in general for free returns. But one thing is to be for free income, something else is to grant free income. We've done that in rich monn. And no matter what it is said, I feel absolutely certain that the municipalities are able to handle that money. We have many shining examples of that, and there will be more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e862	Norway has a welfare level and a standard of living with which few countries can compete, but it is a challenge that it should also be so in the future. The government wants a strong and efficient public sector that provides good services to its citizens. That's why we need to have the full speed of public sector renewal. With the renewal, we're going to have to do something. ensure that the offer is aligned with the inhabitants. We have to organize the offer so that people get their needs met where they are, regardless of wallet and social status. It should be easy to get in touch with the public, and one should get fair treatment. It is important that we resolve Community tasks as efficiently as possible in order to free up money to other priority areas. But the challenge is not to let efficiency go beyond quality, as we have too many examples of. Furthermore, we need to make sure that the public sector is also an exciting and evolving place to work. We need people to thrive and develop in their jobs, because that's just the way we make sure that the public sector is at the front as a service provider. There is no doubt that there is a need for renewal in many areas, and there will be a need for both renewal and conversion in the public sector, as in the private sector, every single day – one can take the tax rate as an example. To fill in your own message today is something quite different than just a few years ago. 1.25 million people filled out their self-reports electronically in the current year, yet the tax rate has targets of getting better, and they carry out user searches to get better and better. So the government's goal is to renew and develop the public sector without leading to an increase in sick leave and social exclusion. One of the tools is to look at the working time. So in the supplementary proposition, we've added 10 million. kr, which is to be used to prepare experimental and research activities related to different forms of organisation of working time – also known as the 6-hour day. This is a follow-up to the Government's political platform from Soria Moria. So 700,000 people are out of work. I can't see that four years of right-wing management has managed to get one of them into the world of work. On the contrary, that number has increased. Then it has to be considered whether there is anything other than whipping — cut into social security, cut into social benefits — that can get people into work, get people to work longer and not get younger, and not least few women, who are mostly in part-time settings, to increase their working hours. In sum, it will be an extreme benefit to society. I think we should see if a working time system can lead to this kind of good. We have to look at productivity. We'll look at sick leave. We'll look at well-being and thus quality in the service. Of course, we need to look at what the employer might want to win and lose, and we need to gain knowledge of the macroeconomic implications. But we're talking about preparing trials in 2006. We're talking about going small steps forward, hopefully from 2007. Of course, we should look at the experiences that have been gained in the projects that are currently underway, both in the public sector and not least in the private sector. It's nice that we have private employers in this country who take their IA work seriously, who see that they have an ignition on the bottom line by introducing a 6-hour day, whether it's a car workshop or a salmon slaughterhouse that does it – very exciting, and we'll look at that. So to that part of the renewal work that's about IT. MiSide is a quantum leap for electronic services to be built-in. MiSide shall provide citizens with safe and user-friendly access to public electronic services – it may be to exchange fixed, order a health insurance card, order a retirement pension, search for tax cards, report removal, reserve for direct advertising or services related to student loans and job search. MiSide is also going to give me as a native information about what information the public has about me – what a vehicle is registered to me, what my address is, who my decision is, and what, for example, is. are my estates. We operate and establish MiSide no. We want to run testing on the side forward and bet on getting her to go up in the first quarter. Currently, there are seven government agencies. The challenge is to get municipal services on the same page, so that regardless of whether the municipality, county or state provides the services, the residents have a place to log in to get the desired service. This is an amazingly exciting project. It's an important part of the renewal work, and we have absolute ambitions to get it up to go as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e885	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e888	I realize that there is a great need for broadband around the country. In the district that I'm from, there's a large area that doesn't have access to broadband at all, and there's a very large area where it's so bad that they can't use it. I record that the Soria Moria Declaration states that one should have something called ‘high-speed’ developed before the end of 2007. It would be interesting to know what is in the word 'high speed'. Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be a network built everywhere in the country that is so good that one is lit with it, before the time frame that is seen here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e900	This is a question that I'm very excited to get. Now broadband is home enough under the Transport and Communications Committee, and we discussed broadband for the past week. There are many who have a strong commitment to it, including myself as the broadband minister, to say so. Yes, we can promise that there will be broadband for all households and private and public enterprises by the end of 2007. There's a promise in the Soria Moria statement, and we have ambitions to keep it. What surprises me about the Progress Party when it comes to the definition of broadband, is that on death and life they will have a minimum definition of broadband, and indicates that the OECD and to the extent that the EU have the same. The problem with such a minimum definition is that it will soon expire. One should rather be based on what the user needs. Instead of using a minimum definition of broadband, which expires on the date before last year's broadband coverage, we use a user definition that ensures that the household needs to be provided with the household. What many users need is what the school needs. For example, a high-tech enterprise is located. in Sales, if it is necessary, it shall be provided. No use with a minimum default which expires on the date after two to three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e909	The previous Stoltenberg government started many major reforms of state activities. Hospitals became state-owned, several state companies were fully or partially privatised, and one started major reforms, among others. in the Defence and the Police. At the last national meeting of the British Labour Party, Tony Blair said: the temptation is to use the state apparatus to protect us from globalisation by shutting it out; believing that we can protect a staff of regulations, a company of state subsidies and an industry of customs duties. It's not working today. For the dam that held the global economy back, burst years ago. Competition cannot be closed, it can only be won. Can the Minister of Renewal explain what new major reforms in the public sector the new Stoltenberg government will take the initiative in order for Norway to participate in and win the global competition described by Tony Blair in his speech to the National Assembly of the Labour Party in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e918	I've been asked a lot of times: what should you have as a Minister of Renewal like your bava? What kind of reform do you want to start? Then I said that I think it's important to look at what's going on. What's already going on? How much more can they manage to implement these reforms, so that the reforms are actually implemented? We now have this great NAV reform. It was in agreement with the previous government, and it is in agreement with this government. The reform will amount to 16,000 added – 11,000 in the state sector and the rest in the municipal sector. In addition, we are going to have a management reform, on which the Minister of Local Affairs and I are going to cooperate, where we are going to look at the level of the region. Of course, it will also concern state regional administration. We have two far-reaching overarching reforms, which go into the middle of what both the representative Höie and I are busy with, namely that the public sector in Norway is going to be the best possible. We're at the top of international competition measurements, because of a strong public sector. But let's not start with new things just to think about new things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e925	The government will try the 6-hour day. The fight for shorter working hours has been important work struggle or work environment policy for many years. But is it the long working day that is the problem for the most people in working life today? Is it not stress and increased efficiency requirements that are the main challenge? Also, should one not make further attempts with specific measures, such as: better time for each job within the hours available to you today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e930	Yeah, I think so. But at least it does not help to deliver the kind of local government budget that the previous government has delivered four years in a row. If someone has jumped faster in the last four years, it's nurses, it's home workers, it's teachers who's been getting bigger classes and fewer sharing hours, it's preschool teachers – it's definitely all the municipals added. There will be no less sick leave and more inclusion in this type of work. The 6-hour day doesn't necessarily mean you have to work six hours a day. It could be 80 pst. full-time job. It may be three days off and three days off, as one does in the municipality of Bærum. One must dare to look at the way we organize working time, and may have consequences for how one experiences work. If people can manage to go up from 40 pst. to 80 pst. job, we have won a lot, especially in relation to the challenges we face in the years to come in relation to the care sector and the number of older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e941	Citizens in Norway are entitled to a well-being offer of good quality that is available to all. An equivalent offer and real choice is best ensured when the tasks are jointly and publicly managed. It is important that individual needs are at the heart of both the content and organisation of welfare services. We must aim to achieve Community tasks as efficiently as possible without compromising the quality of services. We want to renew the public sector in such a way that we get more well-being and less administration. At the same time, we need more local freedom and less detailed management. Good local economy and a strong public sector are prerequisites for this, not competitive outsourcing and privatisation, on which we have seen repeated attempts from the right in recent years. We also have to set up the offer according to the wishes of the users. If we are to do this and be able to deliver quality, those who are to perform the service must be included on advice and included. Therefore, renewal processes shall be carried out in close dialogue and cooperation with employees and their organisations. We are facing one of the biggest reforms in the public sector through the creation of the new labour and welfare state. Work and well-being are closely linked. Getting more in work and fewer in social security is a basic tool for meeting the needs of the labour force and for financing the welfare state. Participation in the labour market is also the best guarantee against social differences and for the self-esteem and quality of life of individuals. The labour and welfare management does not create jobs but can facilitate the functioning of the individual in the workplace. The number of persons on rehabilitation and disability have increased sharply in recent years. This is waste of human resources when we know that many of them could participate in the working life if it was better organised. We've all heard a lot of examples that people have become caste balls between public authorities, without having received the help they should have. We also know that many users have complex service needs, and it is important that each person is met with respect, and that the needs of each user should better control which services are to be provided. So the employees are our most important resource to make the public sector even better. Therefore, they must be involved in the development and renewal work. Through inclusion and training, we need to ensure that qualified personnel are always responsible for ensuring that the offer provided meets the needs of the recipient. It is not the case, as many claim, that the public sector has remained silent. Major changes have occurred in many parts of the public sector in recent years — for example: in the hospitals and in the police, just to mention something. There is no disagreement in the Norwegian political debate about the need to further develop the public sector in order to provide proper services and good services. But there's a big disagreement about what should be the focus and the centre of gravity of the renewal. For the Workers' Party, innovation and modernisation are not about controlling the market, because it is actually the most old-fashioned thing in existence. I am very pleased that we now have a government that will work to get a truly inclusive working life, and that will implement a series of measures to put unemployed people more quickly into work and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e964	For the Progress Party, it is particularly important that public administration is made as simple and cost-effective as possible. The Progress Party believes it is the Ministry of Modernisation that must be the main engine of this work and that must be a driver in competitive functions for the state apparatus. The Progress Party believes that there must be an overarching objective to reduce and streamline public bureaucracy, thus making central authorities more transparent for the individual citizen, in order to increase the impact of the individual citizen and not least in order to reduce public spending. The Ministry of Modernisation should be the department leading as a good example to look specifically at its costs and tasks, particularly carefully assessing where it can be saved, and critically assessing the priority tasks to be given. Norway is probably the country that is at the tip of the world when it applies to the number of members of the public sector. Over the course of a few years, on average over 30 new entrants to the public sector are monitored every day. As a result, there will be nearly 11,000 new bureaucrats every year. In our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, there is a clear reversal of these developments, without these countries having been responsible for raging their welfare systems. The Progress Party will point out that someone has to pay this bill, in the form of increasing taxes and taxes. If it had been done in state, state and local authorities, we could have saved large sums of money. The party of progress is of the opinion that public activities should make greater use of instruments such as supply, privatisation and competitive stimulation, and that there must be specific foundations if these principles and instruments are not to be used by the public. Progress party wants to open public administration. With the potential of today's information and communication technologies, the public should be much more open to dealing with matters, so that they are given access to them, to other parties and to the public, without prejudice to privacy or to the obligations of the public. This can be continuously evaluated and streamlined for the benefit of its citizens. However, the Progress Party notes that in the negotiated document on Soria Moria there are many formulations indicating that it will not be the Progress Party’s political point of view that will form the basis for political governance in the future. When reading what is contained in this document on the renewal and development of the public sector, I must admit that this is little in line with what is the Advance Party’s wish – on the contrary. The party of progress looks with great excitement at what will come from the new government council in the Ministry of Modernization. But one thing we're going to promise – we're going to judge the state council from the contents of the plays that come from the state council, and not from the work that the state council had done in the past, as some others have done. It's too stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e983	When Einar Gerhardsen was asked what he thought was most important of all that he had achieved, he replied that it had to be that the workers no longer had to stand with their hands. They had received marine respect. The history of the labour movement is just about this: all Nordics should have equal rights to sail to reach their goals, realise their potential and realize their dreams for the future. Respect for the soul comes to each one when they feel care, security, and when they feel they need it. When we have provided for the statutory right to primary and secondary education in Norway, it is also because it is an important part of the so-called general education. We can actually say that it takes about 13 years to get integrated youth into society. The same thing is going to happen to our new countrymen in a much shorter time, and that with a desire to both participate in society and at the same time hold on to their identity. Integration has gradually become a well-used word. But when we talk about integration, we must remember that it is a policy for the North, not just for the others. Sociologist Hirschi has developed a general theory of causes of crime and marginality. In his perspective, crime is a result of a lack of integration or ties to society. He points out four sub-areas: Linking parents and other law-abiding adults to individuals has clear ambitions and future plans and engagement attitudes and morals, i.e. the emergence of the central values of society A fresh NOVA report has just arrived, based among others. at these times. The report concludes that the tendency to crime may not necessarily be explained by the origin of young people, but rather by the extent to which they are part of society. In his Nobel lecture Saturday quoted the prizewinner Mohamed ElBaradei from Shakespeare, and here he speaks enough about each of the human race: "If you stick us, don't we bleed? If you tickle us, don't we laugh? If you poison us, don't we die? And if you break us, shouldn't we retaliate?' I guess we're all essentially the same in reaction patterns. If you need to talk about immigrant youth as a group in this context, it's more right to say that they're both more law-abiding, and they're more criminal. They are a composite group in the same way as ethnic Norwegian youth. Crime has no color. We therefore do not want to have one way of dealing with criminal immigrant youth and another way for ethnic Norwegians. We're gonna have to fight all the crime. But if we're to succeed, it's important to look at the causes of crime and not just the actions. There is no art to find flaws in Norwegian society. I think everyone is capable of that. However, the difference is made up of those who not only see the symptoms but also do something about the very cause of the symptoms. In my opinion, many of the proposals of the Progress Party and comments are the result of seeing the symptoms, but they don't care about going further and more thoroughly to work than just dampening them. One way to illustrate the difference between the Progress Party and our policies can be to use the picture with the two people walking along a river: suddenly they see that there are many children floating in the river, and one throws himself down at the shore and starts saving those he gets. The other one goes up. What are you doing? ask one. Come and help me and pick them up! But after the other has come up a little bit, he finds the reason why the children have been thrown into the water, and gets to stop it. I believe that this may be an image that we should pursue a more intelligent and effective policy to include all the inhabitants of our society. The Norwegian worker could gradually straighten his back. The working party shall again break for the weak. We're going to thank you for not showing up new groups that are left standing with the lua in their hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1025	It is interesting to note that the Workers' Party is not pursuing an intelligent integration policy in this country. This has been pointed out by the Progress Party for almost 20 years, in a period when the Workers' Party has been in power for a long time. Then it may be time for the Workers' Party to take a little self-criticism in relation to the integration policies that have been pursued in this country. If you read the Kommunal Report today, you see something interesting: ‘Rich doesn’t provide any more services’, it says to read. Municipalities with a lot of money do not necessarily have any better services than municipalities that are poor. This illustrates a very interesting point, which is that it's not necessarily the more money you put in free money for the municipality of Norway, the more you get back in good services. It is not like some representatives here have tried to make it, that the Progress Party does not want more money for the municipalities. On the contrary, in our alternative state budget, we added up to an as large an increase as the Workers' Party did, but with one significant difference, that we earmarked large parts of the amount. We earmarked money for care for the elderly, for primary school, and for high school, because we know that the municipalities don't necessarily do the same priorities as the parties ran around and promised in the election campaign. Earmarking is to the extent that we do secondary. First of all, we want, and that is absolutely fundamental in the policy of the Progress Party, a price financing of these services, because these are fundamental services. We think it is completely wrong that an elderly person who needs a sick home should compete for the same means that a cultural worker does to communicate, for example. an artistic expression. These are two widely differing services. One is basic and completely fundamental welfare services, and the other is services that can be strictly handled without. Therefore, the Progress Party, with its policy, signals that we should have different funding for such services. We're distinguishing between what's important and what's less important. We want a system where the money automatically follows the user, where the money automatically follows the person who needs a nursing home, the one who needs a school place, the one who needs basic public services. It is to be provided by the State through direct financing, and that is what we call unit-price financing. So it's not like it's trying to be made like this, that the Progress Party has in some way had ambitions to strangle the municipalities. On the contrary, we want the money that is needed to be given to the basic services completely independently – much the same way that popularism works today. It's a little interesting to hear what the Workers' Party comes up with, especially the last speaker, that you're really willing to exempt individuals from all responsibility for their own integration into society. You come up with cool theories about what's the background for people getting into crime, without saying, and that's the important thing, that at last it's a choice that individual people make. The individual is responsible for his own actions. This is probably one of the most basic dividing lines between us in the Progress Party and the Socialists. We believe that the individual is responsible for his own actions, himself responsible for being included in the Norwegian community, in order to be integrated. We must also demand that individuals be treated as individuals and not as groups. The Progress Party has the solution. We've been bringing it here for 20 years. We hope that the Workers' Party will eventually see it and realize that the policy they have been pursuing has made a total mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1044	Housing is, together with work, education, health and care cornerstones of the welfare community. Good housing in good living conditions is a necessary prerequisite for a good life for the individual. For the Workers' Party, housing policy is at the same time one of the most important tools we have to achieve our general social goals of human freedom, equality and fair distribution. The Labour Party believes that it is important that the instruments of housing policy be strengthened so that everyone is given the financial opportunity to dispose of their own housing. We believe that housing policy must be strengthened by three main steps: 1st@item: inlistbox Several dwellings need to be built to avoid additional pressure on prices.2. It is necessary to invest in cheap youth rentals and disadvantaged housing through the development of non-commercial rentals, low-deposit housing, student housing and small owner-occupied dwellings. One can also give all young people a real opportunity to be assessed for Start-up loans, making it easier for young people to buy a self-contained dwelling.3. Housing for families with children needs to be increased in order to facilitate the management of housing costs for families with a weak economy. We know that many poor children in Norway today have parents like them. cannot afford Christmas presents, to bring their children to the doctor. The Stoltenberg government has already implemented several measures in the State budget that will have a positive impact on housing policy, based on the three main interventions mentioned above. Firstly, we have given the municipalities economic space to give priority to housing policy. This is important because it is the municipalities that should be the driving force in the development of new dwellings. Among other things, I can mentioned youth homes as a keynote. Secondly, we have improved the housing support system by raising the ceiling by NOK 10 000 for housing beneficiaries in the eight largest Norwegian cities. This is also a key instrument in combating poverty. Thirdly, the government wants to extend the probationary period until 31 December 2008, because we see this as a successful scheme. This took the Bondevik government out of the budget. Finally, I would like to mention a very important measure for my own city, Oslo. The government is now granting 15 million. More about Oslo in the inner east and Groruddalen, which gives the cities and schools the opportunity to carry out the last few years of the action programme in a proper way. Such a reduction as the Bondevik government suggested would have given half-finished investment measures and a difficult final phase of the programme. And we're actually going to be able to avoid that right now. We are very pleased that the government clearly shows that housing policy is a very important field of activity. This means a brighter future for a lot of those who are currently struggling to get into the housing market, but also for those who are in the housing market now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1075	The debate on the local economy is, in fact, a debate on how we organise public administration in this country, and what condition do we want local democracy to have? The relationship between Stortinget as the top level of the administration and the local government/counterfeiting comes to light. This has a democratic dimension that it is also important to pay attention. If we are to be able to provide good welfare services everywhere, it is primarily local politicians who can facilitate it, for the benefit of the citizens of each community. In our long-term country, needs may vary, and they are probably very different in the municipalities of the press area here in the East and in the more pig-grown regions across the country. The priorities will hardly be exactly the same in Oslo and the Lierne. My experience is that over the last 15 years, there has been a strong focus on improving the efficiency and conversion of municipal activities. These are exercises that all the municipalities are familiar with. Cost-effectiveness is, in fact, a payword in the municipal sector. No municipality will spend more money on administration and administration than is necessary. Also, in view of the fact that municipalities now receive more money at their disposal, it is extremely important to continue to focus on good, efficient administration and administration. This will help ensure that as much as possible of the additional money now coming goes to the areas where it is important to get money – the health and care sector, school, etc. I have noticed – with satisfaction – that the majority have a note to consider a reversal of the inclusion of large parts of the host municipality grant into the income system. The Labour Party was opposed to what the Bondevik II government here did. There have been significant negative consequences for many of the host municipalities. These municipalities believe that they are completely drained for approx. Ten million. kr at this grip. Therefore, I think it is very important that this is reviewed. We have not corrected the financing of the municipalities by this budget – let it be clear. But we have started a escalation so that municipalities will be able to provide good welfare services across the country. Examples of how municipalities are making extra funds have been highlighted in the debate. It's drawn out by someone as an example of horror that some bets on culture. I think that in many ways can be a right bet. I want to mention how a municipality that is close to me, namely Meldal, solved this this fall. Due to a new majority of the municipalities, the municipality can now, for the first time, continue a tight programme with the disbursement of loans. In addition, home services are strengthened by a million-dollar amount, the response to demente is strengthened, and primary school is strengthened. This is an example of how resource use is dimensioned and structured for the benefit of the inhabitants, and how the Meldal inhabitants want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1092	The largest difference in the budget of the outgoing government and the budget of the Stoltenberg government are the transfers to the municipalities. In 2006, municipalities are given a historic boost. The real growth in the free income is going to be $5.7 billion. That's good. But it was necessary after several years with very light transfers to the municipalities. The Right-Original Government, supported by the Advance Party, chose tax reliefs over the Community. For several years, people have had to accept that the offers have been built up, there have been fewer home help hours, fewer teachers, etc. Now this development is reversed. All over the country, we hear the money's coming along well. The municipalities are now receiving transfers to enable municipal politicians to adopt a budget without major cuts and without cuts in the offers to the inhabitants. The government has kept it as promised in the election campaign. The money has been well received by municipal politicians from all parties. Unlike the Progress Party, the Labour Party believes that the money is used where the need is greater, where they are most needed. Unlike the Progress Party, the Labour Party has full confidence that local politicians are the ones who know best where the shoe prints. Nor is it the case that needs are the same across the country. Some municipalities already have good care for the elderly, while there are school shortages. For others, it's the opposite. If someone spends some of the extra money to pay off debts, get out of the ROBEK list to get more freedom to drive the municipality better, yes, it also has to be accepted. The change of government gave the Østfold municipalities an estimated 250 million. kr more. Now we can read in the locals that local politicians have chosen to fill up the swimming pools with water, have chosen to reopen the elderly centres, have chosen to hire more people in the health and care sector, in schools and kindergartens. In Fredrikstad, municipal politicians have spent the extra 44 million they received to increase the supply in the care sector, and they have been able to prevent a larger cut in schools. They've also lowered the property tax, which was very high, by 0.4 per million. Yes, even Dagens Næringsliv writes that «The government has invited all the municipalities of the country to the Haga Festival. Not with free bars, but with free revenues’. And they list, "Citizen Ashes get $30 million." Extra kroner. The municipality pays down debts and rates at school, they avoid laying down old people's centres. Yes, even in blue Bærum, the red-green crowns create joy, and they want to spend the money on school and care. And the progress party rapporteur at Tjøme is releasing redundancies and cuts in the service offer. He's probably also hoping to be re-elected in two years. That's what we promised in the election campaign, that's what we're doing now, and the inhabitants are satisfied. This is a good start on the escalation of the income of the municipalities that is announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. The county councils have been given new tasks as regional development actors. It's an important task if we're to get what we think is necessary for the whole country. But in terms of means of working with development, the differences are very large between states. While the counties around Oslofjord have a little over 5 million. kr, we find counties elsewhere in the country that have more than 200 million. kr. It can't go on like that. Therefore, it is good that the government parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party, write in the vote that all county councils must be given a better opportunity to carry out the task of regional development. It must mean that those who get very little today need more, and I expect the Council of State in the 2007 budget to come back with a sensible solution. Finally, a little bit about integration. I have noticed that the group now receiving integration grants has been extended from 2006 to include family members of people who have been granted humanitarian residence. It is an important signal to the municipalities, because we want an active integration policy and a rapid settlement of those who are allowed to stay, this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1109	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1112	The non-Western immigrant population is growing strongly in Europe, and Norway is no exception. Since 1975, i.e. 30 years old, the non-Western immigrant population has increased from very few to about 30 years old. 300,000 today. These are immigrants who primarily come from Muslim countries with a culture that is very inconvenient to our own. Not least is the view of what I would call universal values, very diverging. This concerns the view of equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, pluralism, individual freedom and the secular rule of law. The challenges that have arisen in the wake of this very large immigration are known to all of us, and it is almost not a day without new, almost unimaginable issues emerging in the media. For a very long time, the politically correct view has been that integration fails because ethnic Northmen are not sufficiently inclusive and because there is insufficient focus on integration measures. The debate today shows the same thing. However, no matter how much money is injected into various public integration measures, many of our immigrant groups remain equally segregated. Yes, in fact, some groups are more segregated today than they were a few years ago. This is due to failed integration measures as well as the large influx of new immigrants. The Progress Party has for 20 years pointed to the consequences of a naive immigration and integration policy, but each time, the politically correct shouts that it is we who stigmatise and are xenophobic. 15 years ago warned, among other things: Carl I. Hagen that in the near future we would be able to experience ethnic reunification in Oslo. This play was ridiculed in the media and by our political opponents. We all know today that Carl I. Hagen's warnings were correct, and that we actually didn't have to wait more than three to four years before the first renditions were a fact. Earlier today, the Central Statistical Office published a demographic population projection for Norway, the first ever to be published. It shows that the number of non-Western immigrants in Norway will reach up to two million by 2060. Based on real migration figures from the last five to ten years, the development of Oslo City shows that ethnic Northmen will be in a minority in the capital over 20 years. And integrating a majority into a minority would be a very difficult exercise. The question to the Council of State and, moreover, to the entire government is, of course, whether the above developments are acceptable or whether the Council of State will propose measures limiting the annual influx of non-Western immigrants into Norway. And do our generation of politicians at all have the right to change Norway's demographic composition forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1130	We know that future Norway will become more and more diverse, and policy must therefore be adapted to the challenges of immigration. As the only one in the committee at seatime also in the previous municipal committee, I would like to say that I believe that former municipal minister Erna Solberg made a great effort in the field of immigration. Very much happened the years Right, Christian People's Party and Left put in government. The Asylum Institute was reviewed and significantly improved, a number of measures were taken with good reason to reduce the number of asylum applications for those who do not need protection, and the amount of the application has also fallen significantly and is currently only a small proportion of those who are applying for a stay in Norway. I could mention many areas where measures have been taken that have worked, as opposed to what the Progress Party emphasises. I could mention the processing time, which has become shorter, I could mention the residence rate, which has been increased, I could mention what we've done for people with special needs. They've got both closer and better follow-up. I could also talk about departure centres, such as this big business that has known to have decided to be renamed a waiting reception. And I could have mentioned a lot more. But anyway, there is still work to be done, and there will be new challenges in this area. I am pleased to see that Minister for Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has stated on several occasions that he wants to follow up the main lines of the asylum and immigration policy that has been pursued. I have also registered that in Stavanger Aftenblad on 8 December 2005 he stated that, in the case of asylum seekers who are residing illegally in the country, we must first and foremost intensify our efforts to reach a return agreement with several countries. Here the Minister will receive our support. For the Right, it is important to underline the importance of an active integration policy, where housing, language training, social knowledge, work training and education are essential elements. In particular, two measures are important — mandatory introduction programmes and Norwegian training rights and obligations. This is the very basis for successful integration. In fact, in this job, municipalities have a very important job to do to get the best possible result from the resources deployed in the field of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1144	The representative Hagebakken from the Workers' Party had a humorous post. Part of the humor just went on the policy of the Progress Party, and that they had not given funds to Uppland County Municipality. This thought the Hagebakken was awful. But should not the Progress Party promote its own policy – which is precisely about not wanting a county council and not wanting to strengthen it? We have a opposite view. That is why the Progress Party has promoted this proposal. But what Hagebakken says is a little contradictory. They now want to look at this with new regions, while wanting to strengthen one county municipality in this country. This isn't hanging out in the jump. The Progress Party does not want a strengthened county municipality, we do not want a county municipality at all, so we have not allocated this money to Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1153	The reason why I took the floor now is that, through the debate on the part of the government parties, and not least on the part of the local and regional ministers, a description of the situation in Kommune-Norway has been given in recent years, which I do not believe is true. When the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs says that the municipalities have been fed hunger, there is reason to warn against a black paint that is not really rooted. It's nice for those who are municipal politicians, that the municipalities have now received NOK 3.8 billion more than the Bondevik government proposed. This money will be spent wisely. But it's no longer going to be by blackpainting the situation that was before. After all, it's just an increase of 1 pst. What was the situation in Kommune-Norway when the Stoltenberg II government took over? It was a situation with an improved financial balance, with an operating result in Kommune-Norway in 2004 of 2.2 p.m., i.e. a surplus in Kommune-Norway of 5.6 billion. There was a record increase in revenue in 2004, there was an increase in revenue in 2005, and a significant increase in revenue was proposed in 2006. One had received a lower interest rate that meant that for each interest rate point – that was 5 pst. – with a reduction, the municipalities saved 800 million. kr. There were fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list, there was an increase in employment in the municipal sector. Not least there were more satisfied users. Users were more satisfied for each user survey with the provision provided by the local authority sector. There were several years of work in the school. There had been fewer annual works in the administration. There was growth in the number of kindergartens, growth in municipal psychiatry, and there was shorter procedure time in construction. In all these important areas, there was a clear improvement in Kommune-Norway. This is thus produced as if the communes were almost hungry feed. That's not right. It helps to undermine the important job that many of the employees in Kommune-Norway do. Not least, it helps to create a picture of a municipality of Norway that many people don't want to apply for to work. It's a big problem because Kommune-Norway is an important job. But not just that. It was also a basis for new welfare, because fiscal policy has worked. As the leader of Fredrikstad Blad determines leadership position: «The tax reliefs have worked, in the sense that they have provided increased tax revenue to the public.» The tax havens implemented by the Bondevik II government have created new growth in the country. The new growth will help to finance welfare in the future. The current government cuts in education, cuts in research, cuts in the framework conditions of business. This undermines the basis for future welfare and growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1171	I got a sort of response from the Advance Party to what I brought up on the Free Forward trial in Oppland. What's my main point is not that the Progress Party is against this way of working and doing it. It is that, in its budget statement, the Progress Party simply cancels all the appropriations under this experiment, which are funds received by each State, and thus removes 73 million. kr from Uppland. Upland really needs these important instruments. That's what I think is dramatic by Norway's second largest party. There's definitely no contradiction between what I'm saying and the fact that we want a regional reform. Free Forward is an attempt that may most clearly illustrate the need for regional reform, and shows just how the relationship with both the municipality and the state can be ensured in a new regional reality. But what the Progress Party is doing is taking 73 million. kr from Uppland. Fortunately, the Progress Party does not have the power in this Chamber to realize it. Had it been the situation, it would have been really dramatic. With regard to the local economy of the Right, there is no reason to be concerned that the employees feel that our description regarding starvation is made. I think the employees of Kommune-Norway very much agree with that very description. Employee organisations have committed themselves strongly to a new policy and a commitment to well-being through a commitment to Municipality-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1182	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 961]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1198	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 972]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1214	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 973]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1230	The Progress Party notes that neither does the Red-Green Government have the power to deal with the so-called rules of action for the use of petroleum revenues, a rule of action which the majority in the context of a matter to be dealt with later today, is likely to be renamed into the rule of action for the use of pension funds. A nice paradox in an otherwise predictable budget. Each time the Progress Party reminds the other parties that the rule of action has never been observed, they agree that the rule of action is flexible, and that more money can be used than the rule suggests, in periods when the Norwegian economy has weak growth and activity and therefore needs stimulus. Yes, but it is at the same time unison agreement that the Norwegian economy is currently in a very good time. Yes, the government itself says in the supplementary proposition that the activity of the Norwegian economy is high, and that economic growth is strong. So how are petroleum revenues used in addition to the rule of action defended and explained? Indeed, the Ministry of Finance introduces the notion that the use of petroleum revenues is neutral to the economic activity. So it's that simple. If you don't fit the map with the terrain, you change the terrain with a pen stroke. In the additional proposition of the Government, the following is added: «Where oil income is used by the country to finance increased public consumption, resources must be transferred from other industries.» It is a formulation that many will recognize from their own economic studies. However, the problem is that the above-mentioned doctrine does not distinguish consumption from investment. While consumption is a recurring expenditure that is very likely to be rediscovered in next year's budgets, investment is one-off expenditure. Furthermore, the doctrine does not take into account where in the economy any investment takes place, it does not take into account whether it is acquired or traded abroad, and it does not take into account the alternative use of the money. The doctrine also ignores the crucial issue, namely whether the investment will be a cost for the acquisition of income. Let's work on the government's above-mentioned economic theory and use a defense example. Today's Hercules transport aircraft are very old and require continuous extensive maintenance. Among other things, in the near future, the wings of the aeroplanes are to be changed. This will require large investments and many annual works in the public and private sectors. The public money spent for this purpose will, of course, be part of the Norwegian domestic economy and, in a macroeconomic sense, contribute to increased consumption, inflation and interest rate pressures. If the Government chooses to acquire new transport aircraft from either the company EADS in France or Lockheed Martin in the United States, this will cost approximately. DKr 4 billion. These will be strategic transport planes that can carry our soldiers with maximum security over long distances without expensive and time-consuming intermediate landings. New aeroplanes will also require minimal maintenance. According to the Government’s logic, such a public acquisition will result in resources being transferred from other industries, mainly from competitive industries, as the Government itself writes. In other words, if we spend 4 billion kroner of our huge profits on the acquisition abroad of new transport aircraft with minimal maintenance needs, this will weaken private business in Norway. However, if we spend tens of millions on the maintenance of ancient transport aircraft, this will not have consequences for other industries. In other words, 4 billion surplus spent abroad would be devastating for competitive industries in Norway, while 40 to 60 million. kr used for maintenance in Norway will not have similar consequences. This is not just interesting, but groundbreaking economic thinking. This can continue in investment areas by investment area. In an article in Today's Business 22 October, former Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman writes that neither the consideration of future generations nor the stabilisation policy is the real reason for the rule of action. He goes on to say that there are many uses of oil money that do not create particular pressure in the economy. He mentions in short: foreign entrepreneurs building roads in Norway, purchases of healthcare abroad, imports of PCs to students and students, capital equipment for hospitals, investments for the acquisition of future income, etc. For 38 representatives of this magnificence, this would sound familiar. Maybe not so strange, because Victor D. Norman's listing is almost a copy of the principle and action programme of the Advance Party. But we can't do that anyway, Norman continues, because such a policy is to perceive as a salami tactic because the politicians won't be able to limit the number of salamamics with the consequence that the whole sausage is eaten up. Some in the pink tabloid press have also made the same argument. But how much insight is there really in these warnings? For example, the Progress Party, which has provided the most investment-intensive budget of the parties in the Stortinget, proposes that the budgeted surplus for 2006 be reduced by DKK 16 billion. In other words, while the government is proposing to transfer 316 billion kroner to the Petroleum Fund next year, we propose that it be transferred 300 billion kroner. So, with both budget proposals, Salamipolsa will grow. Yes, it will actually grow more and faster than ever before. In the light of the above, the Progress Party promotes the following proposals to strengthen the long-term growth of the Norwegian economy, which will in the long term provide the basis for increased taxes and tax revenues to the country: For the first time, we are proposing NOK 2 billion in deposit capital in Statnett. Statnet is facing large investments in the central electricity network. There's something Stortinget has been familiar with for a long time. Now they need the injection of equity. The size has, after all, been relatively generous in the equity of the former state budget, so there's very little right now. But both the Bondevik government and the Stoltenberg government have failed. We thus risk Statnett postponing the investments in the supply. This puts security of supply at risk. In addition, Statnet risks reducing its credit rating, which, according to the company, may result in an increase in borrowing costs already in the new year. It also increases the risk of increased network rental. Secondly, we are proposing DKK 10 billion for the creation of a research fund in the field of oil and energy. Petroleum activity is the most important industry we have, and it will provide a significant share of Norwegian value creation and export income in the coming years. The Progress Party has several times proposed that research be carried out through fund allocation. We are therefore proposing the creation of a research fund of DKK 10 billion, where the yield is used for research. Thirdly, we propose that a state company for gas infrastructure should be set up, and we suggest that it should be set aside NOK 5 billion for this purpose. Far from 99 pst. Norwegian natural gas is exported. At the same time, Norway is at risk of rations in a dry year. This is not acceptable, as some in the Workers' Party thought before the decision to fold. After the choice, however, the tone is different. Now we're going to wait and see, we're going to evaluate and evaluate. It is sad to see that the Workers' Party's reasonable position in the opposition has shifted to a waiting and seeing attitude as soon as they have gained power and influence. However, for the Progress Party, it is also important after the elections that the authorities take responsibility for the main gas infrastructure, in the same way that they do for electricity. Fourthly, we propose the establishment of an investment company within the Argentum of DKK 1.8 billion. Argentum is a successful example of private-country cooperation and should therefore be extended. Our proposal will allow for the further development of the company's activity towards more mature activities. However, the best way is to ensure sufficient risk capital for business by allowing businesses and individuals to retain more of their profits and revenues. When today's government is not willing to see this context, but the tax pressure increases to fill up an already thriving state fund, there is a need for us politicians to take action, not because it is necessarily the best solution, but because the red-green government prevents private capital injections. On behalf of the Progress Party, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, as they are in the vote. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that during the course of the approx. The 10 minutes I've been on this platform, the Petroleum Fund has increased by over 6 million. kr – probably to a great deal of joy for non-resident asset managers and businesses in our competitor country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1265	With regard to general economic policy, I refer to the financial debate earlier this autumn. With regard to the debate on the Petroleum Fund, I refer to the debate on the State pension fund in Odelstinget later today. I would therefore like to limit myself here to recommending the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1274	The President asks whether representatives from the Right, the Left or the Christian People's Party should make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1277	For the sake of order, I take up the proposal to which the President referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1282	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 974]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1300	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 981]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1316	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the option be given to the exchange of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1325	This case deals with changes under some chapters of the State budget, including the current year’s population benefit under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Committee – in some cases a majority – broadly agrees with the proposal presented in the proposal. It's just on some chapters it's comments and suggestions. In the case of cap. 720, Social and Health Directorate, the Committee notes that the Government proposes to postpone the work of the statutory system of notification by electronic means until a final position is taken on the content of a future notification system. The Committee is concerned that it is important to establish a national system for the registration, analysis and prevention of maltreatment in somatic hospitals. The Committee assumes that the Government will return to Stortinget with a briefing on the progress of this work. In the case of cap. 728, The Committee welcomes the fact that the Rikstrøgdeverket has set in motion preparations for the introduction of the right of referral and reimbursement for chiropractors and manual therapists, in line with previous decisions of the Stortinget. We think it is gratifying that patients all over the country can now be entitled to chiropractor or manual therapist without being referred from a doctor. In our opinion, it will save patients too much bureaucracy and reduce the pressure on fixed doctors. In the case of cap. 732, Regional Health Companies, show the majority, the members of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, to the blossoming of the Legionnaire in Eastfold this summer. Very many had to be treated in hospitals. This led to large extra costs for the hospital, at approx. Thirty million. kr. The right, Christian People's Party and the left refer to the former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen's statement that the extra expenses incurred in the hospital had to be shared between the state, the local hospital and the Health East, and that the state should take the greatest burden. On this basis, the Right Party and the Left promote a proposal to increase the subsidy to the Health East by 20 million. NOK in order to cover this. There is one relationship with me, and it is the Government's proposal that the agreed contribution to Phase 1 of St. Olav's Hospital of SEK 2.9 billion is paid in full in the current year. A unanimous committee agrees with this and points out that this does not change the overall framework of the state contribution to Phase 1 of St. Olav's Hospital. It's just the payoff time that's shifting. The Progress Party has some own comments and suggestions that I believe they will explain themselves. Finally, I address the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1346	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1349	I have to say, at least for the part of the signed and advanced party, that when we got this proposition for treatment and read it for the first time, we were reasonably surprised. This is the ageing of the current year's budget. When you see that the government is spending a net of NOK 3.8 billion in this area alone in 2005, you're getting a little eager to think back to the budget debate we had in the current year's budget, and the one – I kept saying – is the sacred balance over how many dollars and cents you can spend without the Norwegian economy being overrun. Then you could at least get the idea that this was almost on the crown how much you could use. If you used more than that, the interest rate would go up, and everything bad would happen to us in this country. And then you come up with a proposition and you suggest $3.8 billion. Most of this applies to St. Olav's Hospital, so that instead of paying NOK 2.9 billion over three years, you do it over the current year's budget. But I have to say that I think this is a strange way of doing it, with this kind of sum in this case. So at least that comment is given! A unanimous committee is behind the proposals of the Government. There is no change in the proposition, except for the additional appropriations proposed, including: from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left Party, and from the Advance Party. So that I don't forget it, I promote our suggestions, which are included in the setting. I would just like to add a few comments to the proposals. One goes to Eastfold and Legionella. Central government officials and state councils almost promised for the open screen that the expenses associated with the treatment after the blossoming of the legionella, at least not going out to the hospital in Eastfold to a very large extent. We don't think this has been satisfactorily followed up, and we're therefore proposing to allocate $30 million. kr for this purpose. Furthermore, we have proposed to set aside 50 million. Dr to the National Institute for Public Health, so that once the negotiations related to the pneumococcal vaccine – the meningitis vaccine – for children, the money is ready to be used. We are a little surprised that no one will support us in this matter, all the time it has been said that this will be carried out. It's going into the babysitting program, but you haven't added any money to it. This should actually be done, so that when the day comes when this can be implemented, you have the funding ready, and the vaccine can be ordered. Furthermore, the Progress Party has proposed to allocate 50 million. kr for processing trips abroad. It is a fact that there are a lot of people in line who both need and will benefit from a treatment trip abroad. On this basis, the Progress Party proposes that it be set at 50 million. NOK to this. It is even possible – even if we make the item transferable – to conclude agreements already this year related to this and buy places. Nor is this contrary to the stork's allocation regulations. Furthermore, it's important that we capture what's out there in society. I hope that you can assess once more what is going on putting money into the pneumococcal vaccine, so that it is clear and can be implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1370	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1373	The rapporteur has given a clear explanation of the matter, so I will not go into all the details in relation to the setting. But I want to draw out two relationships. If you look at the side-line, you might say when you're under the hood. 732 item 81 mentions the allocation to St. Olav's Hospital of SEK 2.9 billion on six lines, and sees it from the perspective that that amount actually equals the entire amount of the Ministry of Environment, roughly, it's for reflection. It is very thoughtful that the funds we spend on the health budget, including large numbers – because there are basically large numbers we are talking about – are drowning in a larger context. I believe that Harald Tom Nesvik may have a point, if I understand him correctly, when he underlines the importance of having a national perspective on the use of funds for major projects in this country. It is clear that, just as there are good reasons to grant St. Olav's Hospital to realise a project of which there is a great deal of consensus, there are good reasons in other parts of the country and in other health establishments, and it is important that it is the national perspective that becomes decisive to ensure this development in parallel in all health businesses. Because at the moment we don't get it, and create effects that are different in the different health businesses, we create distortions that have long-term consequences. While we support this allocation, which is now being taken, it is important that this perspective be taken further into account. If we don't take it further, we're at risk of next time experiencing, in other parts of the country, projects that should have priority, not getting it, just because one big project takes so much resources. It's a perspective that SV is concerned about, and we want to take it further. In the case of the notification system in relation to adverse health events, it is particularly important to establish an operational system, which is not primarily about follow-up via the judicial system or in other ways because of errors but simply about ensuring quality. We know that daily, both in primary and specialist healthcare, there are events in the form of near-accident and possible mistreatment, which could have been avoided, or perhaps just avoided, where today you do not have good routines to catch this up just to improve quality. Therefore, we will follow with interest the system that is also being developed electronically, so that it becomes a useful tool for ensuring quality, without the health professionals feeling that they deliver themselves in an improper way by being with and ensuring quality, even in events that they themselves experience as serious, where something could almost have happened seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1384	I just thought I'd comment on a few points. One is Eastfold and Legionella. To that I would say that this government has not promised it would bring the 30 million. kr that the health-care provider has requested. I would like to stress that regional health companies also have a responsibility for preparedness. I believe that in the ordinary appropriations for our regional health companies, this is also to some extent taken into account. I would also like to remind you that Health East, which is under the care of the hospital in Eastfold, receives a grant of DKK 13.8 billion. I believe that it must be possible to cover 30 million kroner. kr, representing 0,25 pst. of this. I assume that the limits of Health East have at their disposal allow for unforeseen one-off costs of this magnitude. Therefore, it is that the government has not proposed money for this. As far as the vaccine against meningitis is concerned, I would like to inform the House, as I did in the budget debate, that the negotiations are over. There are only some details left that could affect how much this will cost. But the government aims to put this in place and put it into action from 1 July, which is as soon as it is practically possible, because there is to be some training in the municipalities, and it has to be produced and distributed to the municipalities. Then I come back to Stortinget with a matter as soon as possible over Christmas, where one is also given the opportunity to decide on the content and the money. But I have registered that there is a broad majority who want to welcome this vaccine. In the case of St. Olav's Hospital, it's saying that we thought it was right – phase 1 is done – in a way to squeeze out this money. $2 billion is a large amount, but it will facilitate the situation for St. Olav's Hospital, Trøndelag and Health Mid-Norway significantly. We thought it was right to get it signed out. Then I just want to stress that as Minister of Health, I am, of course, concerned with hospitals throughout the country, and not just in Trøndelag. Therefore, the Government is also working very actively to look at the issue of the investment regime. But the general rule must be that health businesses themselves are responsible for it. This doesn't mean that it's just troubling we're occupied with, just so that's said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1398	I just have a question for the Council of State related to this with the St. Olavs Hospital. The council now said that it is important that we get that case signed out. What you originally had to pay out over three years, you're going to get a receipt right now. Now there's been so much talk about psychiatry in connection with St. Olav's Hospital. Yes, both government members and some from government parties have, among other things, went extremely high on the ground in this case, and said that it should be implemented at the stage to be entered, i.e. phase 2. Then my question to the Council of State is: have you now gone beyond this, as you talk about getting this out, so that the good dialogue you say you have with the regional health company is not real, or can the Council of State here now confirm that the psychiatry building at St. Olav's Hospital will come in stage 2, which the government parties themselves have addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1405	I have to admit that I think it's a little strange to get criticism for a fixing things up faster than what's expected, usually getting you criticism because you're too slow. I really think it's pretty good, I, that someone's been able to sort this out pretty quickly. There is no doubt that St. Olav's Hospital and Health Middle Norway are quite relieved that it will facilitate their situation in the future. And it's like there's been three exceptions compared to when the state has to go in separately. One is Ahus, where we've gone in, there's research building at the Radium Hospital, and that's St. Olav's Hospital. There are commitments to this, and I believe that you have been quite united about it. In Phase 2, we're working on it in close and close dialogue with the health company, so there's no doubt that we're also in a good dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1413	I guess no one has directly criticized the council so much for what she has done. But it is clear that some people have found strange the way you do it, and what kind of case you give the money in. It was my comment that I thought it was quite strange. But once again, the Council of State does not answer the question, and I think it will be soon: does this government aim for the psychiatry building to enter phase 2, as several central government members have promised in the election campaign that we have behind us? If these things don't get in place soon and the signals are given, the train goes. This must be implemented in the planning process and in the start-up process. That's why I ask if the Council of State can now answer once and for all that yes, the psychiatry will come in phase 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1420	As I tried to say instead, in these days we are in close dialogue with the health company, and I can only assure the representative Nesvik that signals will be given, so that the company knows what they have to do with the phase 2 at St. Olav's Hospital. I do not think it is right to inform you about all the details about this and now, but I will of course come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way also in relation to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1425	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1428	The reasons why I take the floor are the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo's contributions, where he raises a problem related to this with investments. When we get an overview of all the investment plans that exist around health care companies, I think it can scare some of us, actually. What I would like to stress is that the Government will take responsibility for this, starting with its national health plan. And it is important in a national health plan that the Stortinget can have overall responsibility for the fact that the investments made around it will serve patients and patient care. What I see so far is that difficult expansions often lead to a centralisation of patients, but not least of health professionals. It can lead to unhealthy competition between health businesses in relation to important labour and resources within the various health enterprises. In a national health plan, an overall approach may be taken to ensure that the investments made lead to good patient treatment and good use of resources by professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1433	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 981]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1446	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1454	During the debate, 25 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6-10, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 11, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 12-25, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 12–25, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1566	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a partial privatisation of State Consultant. This is done to focus on the market alignment of activities so that State Consultants can develop to become sustainable. It is assumed that a non-negligible share of the shares is sold and that capital is collected for the stake.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1581	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6-10, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e1625	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e3808	The President then understands it so that we have to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e6357	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 4 and 5, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e6518	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian Party, and the Left, saying, ‘Chap.PostDestinationsCroner5999State loans90Loans 47 426 000 000’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e6562	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e6813	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e7718	The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e8569	Here the President will draw attention to the fact that in an incursion there are two Roman numerals II in the setting. It is corrected to Roman numerals II and Roman numeral IIa. The President assumes that the Advance Party will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e8621	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2–5, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e8831	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones732Regional health enterprises71Additions to Health East RHF, may be transferred, increased by 20 000 000 from NOK 13 842 344 000 to NOK 13 862 344 000.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will now subsidize this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-15.ana.ud1830e9670	There is no record.
