ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e38	The representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen, Eli Sollied Överaas, Heidi Sørensen, Gunnar Kvassheim and Børge Brende, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representatives Morten Højlund, Erna Solberg and Ågot Valle have received applications for leave from 12 December to 16 December – all to participate in the Norwegian delegation to the World Trade Organisation, WTO, 6th Ministerial Conference and Parliamentary Meeting in Hong Kong. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First and second alternates of the Hordaland County, respectively Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Aud Karin Oen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting at the Stortinget. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tove Nyhus. For the county of Hordaland: Eli Årdal Berland and Bjørn Lothe. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tove Nyhus, Eli Årdal Berland and Bjørn Lothe are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e99	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e109	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1-3 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e145	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e156	The Committee has been working towards a budgetary position that clearly shows where there is consensus and where the political divisions go. To put it bluntly, there is a broad consensus on the priorities of the budget, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has an alternative approach to key issues. The new government is largely following up the budget proposal of the Cooperation Government. Through another device, inter alia: on fiscal policy, the new government has provided around DKK 8 billion for budget expenditure. I note that this has led to a small degree to the priority given to the budget areas that we are discussing today. This is surprising, not least in view of the level of ambition of environmental policy laid down in the Soria Moria Declaration. The differences in priorities between the new government and the parties which constituted the Cooperation Government have been even smaller through the examination of the budget of the Stortinget. Changes in estimates have created an increased space for action used by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to give priority to the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. As a result, the small differences between the budgets submitted have become even smaller through the examination of the Stortinge. The main elements of the cooperative government's offensive environmental policy are thus continued through the budgets currently under consideration. There was great tension in how the announced commitment to CO2 clean-up and landfilling would be reflected in the budget. One can see that the government is making a commitment to allocate 20 million. kr for quality assurance and cost calculation of the road choices drawn up in the Soria Moria declaration. It remains to be seen whether the Government is willing to pay the price to clean the emissions from the Kårstø plant and to establish a value chain related to CO2 management. We also note that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left put out something more money than the Government in the work to get to CO2 cleaning. The left also agrees with the main thinking behind the government's policy in this area. One assumes that CO2 is a resource and not a problem. That, I think, is a completely correct approach. In the context of the budgetary process, it is also clear that the clean-up of CO2 emissions from Kårstø ‘in 2009’, as described in the Soria Moria Declaration, means during 2009 and not before 2009, as stated by SV team. This is apparent from a letter from the OED to the Committee. In other areas too, SV's promises and ambitions are zeroed out during the government's two-month work. The Minister of Oil and Energy has said that there will be no petroleum-free zones in the north, as promised by SV and the Senterpartiet. The Minister for the Environment must understand that she has accepted the outcome. To Stavanger Aftenblad today, Tore Nordtun says that what we have understood should be a management plan for the northern regions, primarily an industrial plan. I hope that, during the debate today, the Minister for the Environment will decide whether she agrees that the plan to be presented in the new year is an industrial plan and not a management plan, and whether she is thus joining the Nordtun representative's view. There is disagreement and, not least, uncertainty about matters referred to in the budget setting but not reflected in the figures themselves. These are issues that the government is working on and will come back with. This applies, for example: what will happen to the system of returnees and to an industrial power regime announced. The security of the government parties from the election campaign has now become more subdued. The left supports the efforts to secure the repatriation system in the future, and we also agree that industry needs a predictable power regime. But we don't want a setup that sends the bill to other consumers, which provides less efficient use of resources. It is positive that the new government supports the record-breaking efforts of the Co-operation Government in the field of cultural memory. Thus, it is clear for a prolonged lifting in an area where a power roof has long been needed. I record that, despite the new billions available on the expenditure side, the government does not use a single new crown for liming watercourses. On the contrary, the former government parties devote more money both to liming and to Gyro control. I expect the Government to follow up on the initiative that has been in the field of outdoors, and I am pleased that the record level of appropriations that has been in the years of outdoor life will continue in the new year. In the autumn, there has been a debate on several issues that have had to do with state purchases of properties for outdoor purposes in order to ensure freedom of movement for the general public. That's good, because it's an important policy area. It was a legitimate observation when the government parties decided before the government change that they would purchase a property on Bygdøy for 30 million kroner. kr. The handling of that case was characterized by a desire to have something to show in the exhibition window. It is time to act, not to negotiate," said Jens Stoltenberg. This meant that a trade without obtaining professional advice, without having proper dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo, and without knowing what it would cost to repair the buildings on the property – in short, without doing the most common thing in matters like this and when there are amounts in this order. The government's hyperactive handling of the Bygdøy case could indicate that one would get a government that would run offensively in other matters that had to do with outdoor life. When the 146 000 decorators of the property Vestre Vollane came for sale, State Secretary Henriette Westhrin of the Ministry of the Environment said no to the purchase already on the same day that the department became aware of the sale of the property, and long before a known price. While one started shopping, not negotiating, it was changed in a short time to refuse, not considering. Half of the national park on Hardangervidda is privately owned. It is rare that such a large property in this area comes for sale. The left's view is that the state should have made a real attempt to get in position to buy West Vollane. SV is obvious from the same point of view, as opposed to the Minister for the Environment. This is an important principle for SV, said Heidi Sørensen, the rapporteur of the case, when the public change of words went on. And SV's rapporteur in the municipality of Vinje, Arne Vinje, felt it was very important that this area was in public ownership. In the same way, Norway’s Hunters and Fishery Association, the Norwegian Tourist Association and the Outdoors Association had the same opinion. Among other things, shown from their teams to the experiences of Njardarheim in Setesdal and Ryfylkeheiane, where Statskog is now the landowner in an area previously owned by private people. The change of ownership led to larger and larger openings for the public with reasonable access to hunting and fishing. That the government finally came on the track reluctantly with a bid of 25 million. kr for Vestre Vollane, listen. The bid was an obligation race, given by a non-committed bidder under pressure. I take the opportunity to present the proposals on which the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together, and the proposals on which the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together, in the matters under consideration today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e207	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e212	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Stoltenberg Government calls for maximum transparency in the environmental assessments to be carried out in the context of the concession rounds on the socket, as opposed to the Bondevik Government, of which the Left was part. At this point, this government has turned upside down, as opposed to what Kvassheim claimed. In the evening post of 6 December, it is apparent that former State Secretary, now opposition politician, Gunnar Kvassheim, together with the leader of the Left, is suddenly “happy” that the Government is now publishing these reports and not keeping them secret, as the previous government did. A better illustration of the wing policy of the Left is scarce. When can we expect Left to make a confession in an environmental matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e219	The left has not changed its view regarding the publication of the recordings relating to different concession rounds. We've all thought that they should be available and be a basis for the public change of words. When we have not reached our point of view, it is because there has never been any environmental protection minister from the Workers' Party who has published these documents. Over a long period of time, it is established the practice not to publish input from underlying establishments. It was the main reason that was used by the Co-operation Administration when one continued the practice. But the left argued that our view was that it should be openness. Now the new government has founded it, and I've said I think it's very positive. I believe that the new practice has come to be and will not be changed the next time the Workers' Party receives the Minister for the Environment, and that one thus does not come back to the policy established by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e224	Kvassheim spoke in his post about how important it is with more money for liming. I must say, I am greatly surprised. And the first question I have to ask is, more money compared to what? For what is absolutely certain is that what the Right Party and the Left say in their comments on this matter, that they “agree that the need for liming in Norwegian watercourses is still great”, is not followed up in the proposal of the Left Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to grant 2 million. kr “more” for liming. The reality is that the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left is a reduction in the liming appropriations by 28 million. kr in relation to what we have this year. Then it might be interesting to hear: what kind of liming projects are Gunnar Kvassheim and the bourgeois parties want to save $2 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is it Mandalselva? Is it Vossava, Suldallaggen, Jørpelandselva, or Nidelva?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e229	The mention of liming watercourses I had in my post was that I concluded that the new government, despite NOK 8 billion more on the expenditure side, did not use one more penny for liming watercourses. And then I said that the cooperating parties from the previous government through the budgetary procedure have found a total of five million. kr, so that one can strengthen the liming and Gyro work in relation to that of the Government. However, it is right that it becomes difficult to carry out the liming work within the budgetary framework that is. I therefore assume that the department will ensure that the money is spent optimally in relation to the interests to be taken care of here, both in relation to new liming tasks and in relation to the long-term work. I expect the government to come back if the consequences of this are such that one has to provide compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e236	Let me first thank the committee leader for a good job. Then I must be allowed to say that it is good to hear a Left who is out of the claws of the Advance Party and the Right. This has led us to a position this time with a broad majority on key environmental policy issues, such as: that we are to clean the emissions from gas power plants. I note that the representative of Kvassheim is disappointed that the new government is only spending a little more on environmental protection than the Bondevik II government did. There might be a lot of us who want us to be able to step up our efforts there even more over the three weeks that it took before the budget was released. But is it not the case that the strengthening of the local economy means increasing efforts on public transport, and not least increased efforts to preserve biodiversity in municipalities? An additional question: Is it not true that the first person to introduce transparency in the impact assessment of the concession rounds was then Minister of Oil and Energy Olav Akselen? This actually led to the Lofoten being exempted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e245	In the case of transparency around the concession rounds, there was transparency in one previous concession round. It was described as a mistake, so a reestablished the old practice of keeping this a secret. So to this, to be in the claws of the Progress Party: There's never been a left in environmental policy. On the contrary, we were involved in a cooperative government that presented a historic offensive environmental policy that produced good results. The protected area in Norway increased by 50 pst. 50 new watercourses were protected. There was a record investment in public transport, etc. We also solved many environmental issues in Stortinget together with SV. What is now striking is that SV is in the hands of the Workers' Party. They have – as the setting shows – changed their record position on many important issues, including: in the case of petroleum-free zones in the north, on which they are no longer clear if they wish to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e256	Today, we are facing a global situation with strong growth in demand for energy, while our global energy consumption is already too high. This is the fundamental imbalance of our time. The Western world today has a standard of living that we are envied by many other parts of the world. At the same time, developments are continuing in many countries which, only a few years ago, were much poorer than they are today. This raging development in formerly poor countries presents us with new energy and environmental challenges. We have to supply the world with a different and more environmentally friendly energy than has been the case so far. Nature sets limits. We are already looking at global warming, acid rain, pollution of natural and marine areas, etc. in many areas. We all have a common challenge and a common responsibility in this situation. Norway must take its share of responsibility. We can't sit on the side line in those questions. Norway has not only a responsibility but a special responsibility. We are one of the world's largest energy suppliers. This position obligates. The world needs more energy, but it has to be within the limits of nature. Norway today has a unique opportunity to play a key role in providing more environmentally friendly energy to the future. Our country already has forms of energy that are far more environmentally friendly than many of the other forms of energy. Our hydropower is a good example of this, but not the only one. Exploited gas resources can become one of the new and central energy carriers of the future. Our country is, in my opinion, only in the start-up phase with regard to the exploitation of gas. Gas power stations with CO2 management can supply environmentally friendly energy to parts of the world. At the same time, we can use CO2 as a pressure support in already existing oil fields. In this way, we can clean up our future gas power plants and at the same time get more oil out of our already existing oil fields. These are good environmental and resource management policies. These are forward-looking solutions on which our new, forward-looking government will invest. Think about this: Not many weeks ago, we had a government that said that cleaning CO2 and creating a value chain for CO2 was not possible. Fortunately, the voters have replaced a pessimistic government with a new, forward-looking government, which looks optimistic about such a solution. For this reason, the country will facilitate and contribute to the establishment of a value chain for CO2 management – not only for environmental reasons but also for economic reasons. Who will bear the costs and how other details will be designed, the Government will come back to. The important thing today is that we have a government with a will to bet, a government with clear objectives in this area, a government with tools in the toolbox in this area. For this reason, we in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the Government has invited Stortinget to join in the planning of this work. The government proposes to grant 20 million. kr to work. This shows a government that acts and not just talks. The country has also received a new government that focuses more strongly on the rights of all people. The right to free movement in the field is a fundamental right in our country. The Labour Party has done – and will in the future – everything they can to uphold this right. That ordinary people have a close and good relationship with nature has many advantages. People can learn the value of nature and the environment through good natural experiences. Maybe it's also the case that those who enjoy nature have easier to protect about our common environment in the future. In most places in our country, this is a right that is respected and that people can use for that reason. Unfortunately, it's not like this all over the place. We may face the greatest challenges in the country's most populous areas, for example. in the Oslofjord region. Here the public's lack of access to the beach zone is a highly topical matter. The consequences of a practice in which ordinary people are excluded are that many of the country's most beautiful beach areas are a good thing for just the few. We in the Labour Party do not want this development. For this reason, the Government has now taken up this work. One specific case was the purchase of an extra beach zone at Huk in Oslo. This area will delight thousands of people in the coming years. The congestion in this area has sometimes been unpleasant. Now the government has helped to improve this something. This shows that we have a government that is willing to act concretely when necessary. The purchase of other attractive land around the country is also relevant, but must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Many municipalities struggle with lack of legal competence to challenge resource-intensive individuals who in many cases, contrary to the law, are shutting people out of attractive outreach areas. In particular, this has occurred in many attractive beach areas of the country. For this reason, the Government has invited Stortinget to help reintroduce the legal assistance system for municipalities that need it, in protecting the beach zone. This measure helps to build on the fact that we have finally received a government that takes public access to the beach zone seriously. I wish that the bourgeois-run municipalities in the metropolitan region had shown the same commitment in terms of ordinary people's right to beach traffic. In this area, where the problem may be greater, in many cases it is not just about ability, but maybe also about the will to act. A new government has also given us an increased focus on the importance of national ownership of our energy resources, whether on land or on petroleum resources at sea. I would like to stress that this is primarily our shared responsibility, and for the Workers' Party this is absolutely fundamental. The property of the people shall not be sold to maximum bidders. In particular, this applies to our hydropower. This is one of many reasons why we now feel it is essential to secure the fall-back institution. Hydropower is a crucial energy resource that we must manage in a long-term perspective in view of future generations. With the short-term sales policy on the right, we can risk controlling our hydropower resources, which are now the property of the entire people, from abroad in the future. We say no to this short-term thinking in the Workers' Party. Let me finally take the opportunity to clear up a widespread misunderstanding. In many media, the announced Northern Region Management Plan has been produced as a unilateral protection plan. In my opinion, this is not the case. The management plan is a plan for industrial development in the northern regions – a future development of industry that will not destroy the fishing industry and that must be within the framework and consideration of a good, forward-looking environment. This is important to underline in such a plan. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to extend the 19th concession round as planned, and it has nothing to do with the management plan. This, I believe, is an important clarification that may help to clear up a debate in this area, which at times has been somewhat unfair. The petroleum industry needs stable and predictable framework conditions. They'll get that with the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e306	The representative, Tore Nordtun, said in his statement that in the case of CO2 cleaning of gas power plants, the Government shall return to who shall bear the costs relating thereto. I have registered that Tore Nordtun has not so long ago stated that the State has to pay all the costs relating to CO2 cleaning relating to Kårstø if necessary. This is in strong disharmony with the signals we have received from the Minister of Energy that the State should not bear all the costs. Now it's cracking again in the government. Who really determines this government's energy policy? Is it so that the representative Tore Nordtun will fight for the state to bear the cost of CO2 management, not only in the case of Kårstø, but all gas power plants, as I understand he has said? It is in stark contrast to the previous statement made by the State Council of Enoxsen that the State should not bear all the costs. Who determines this government's energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e324	I think it should be unnecessary to underline here in Stortinget who determines the government's energy policy. It is determined by the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government Declaration. Here lies the whole foundation of the Government's energy policy. This government sits like a majority government, and then – I was saying – the power lies where it should lie. When it comes to CO2 clean-up and who's going to pay, I've told myself about it, that's right. We add up to a value chain, an industrial journey in a new area that is forward-looking, that will ultimately bring benefits to all of us. This strategy shall be within the Kyoto Agreement’s obligations. It shall also be within the international allowance system. With regard to the exact payment, and who is going in here, there is a question to come back to. But it's quite clear, as stated in the Soria Moria Government Declaration, that the state should be involved financially, including in a company, in order to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e336	In a normal year, Norway has a power balance that is unbalanced. We need to import 4 to 6 TWh – ten to twelve Alta power plants – power, energy, from other countries. Much is coal power from Denmark. It is also nuclear power from Russia. That's why there's been a consensus in Stortinget that we have to do something about the force balance. An important prerequisite for getting this in place is to improve the use of natural gas in Norway. And a prerequisite for us to be able to exploit this natural gas is that we realize gas power plants – now with CO2 management, as the Government puts it. Tore Nordtun has said to Stavanger Aftenblad – we obviously have to follow closely there by day – that ‘the State will go in with significant sums for research and development of CO2 clean technologies’. And on the other hand, ‘This will be reflected in the government's draft budget next week.’ It's 20 million. kr. Was this the significant sum of Nordtun suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e356	Our big challenge is the power balance – I agree with Børge Brende here – how to make this happen in the future. With regard to the issue of the different approaches to be taken here, the Government, and those who manage it, have identified different scenarios. This government has now been in office for five to six weeks and has put in place a CO2 industrialisation plan for the three gas power plants and their construction concessions. Furthermore, we have said that we should facilitate greater domestic use of gas – with pipelines for, among others. Grenland area. A State company shall enter and finance this. The previous government – of which Børge Brende was a member – set all these options. There was no concrete action at all. This government has been sitting for four to five weeks, and it's been trading. Twenty million. kr is not enough – it is a start-up. The government has also stated this clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e370	The representative of Nordtun was in his intervention concerned with the free movement and acquisition of properties for the benefit of the general public. It was also the Labour Party before the elections. In Rogaland, one promised, among other things, that fireworks placed for sale were to be put at the disposal of municipalities free of charge. The working party promised a fund of NOK 1 billion to acquire areas for outdoor use, and one said yes to use NOK 30 million. NOK to buy 90 meters of shoreline on Huk. After the government change, we have experienced what I would call a ‘Huk landing’, because in the budget that has now been presented, the government parties use less to acquire such areas than the previous government parties. We don't see anything about the billion fund that the Workers' Party promised. That is why I would like to ask the representative Nordtun if he is standing by the Workers' Party's promise before the election that fireworks should be given free to the municipalities, and whether we can expect a billion funds to come to secure the acquisition of areas for the benefit of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e377	In the case of the special guy -- it may not be so special, it's like the other guy, but it's in a special area in Rogaland -- there's a guy who needs to get a real, concrete owner in the future. The working party has made a strong commitment to this. That's something we'll come back to. In the case of buying-in of free areas, in the case of the beach zone, etc., I was involved in my post. Of course, we would have wanted more money for this right here and now. But with so little time to work on a budget and do the priorities we've done here, I think you've come a long way. You have to go further – you have to ensure public access. The sum this year may not be what we wanted, but in a total context, I would say that this government has made a positive move, while also saying quite clearly that legal assistance should be provided to facilitate better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e387	Before the elections, we were promised on a daily basis that a majority government would ensure a stable course and clear positions on important issues. The impression was created that the red-green parties were ready to implement a common policy as soon as the election was over – yes, they were in fact unhindered by the fact that they had clarified a whole of 155 important points before the election. Unfortunately for the Government it is acquired by reality. Now, just three months later, it's in a number of cases still in the wild about what it really wants. I can mention the range of gas power plants, small power plants, green certificates and petroleum activities in the north to cover the main areas under this committee. It is very entertaining for me and other opposition politicians to hear the parliamentary leader in the Central Party admit that the Soria Moria declaration is self-contradictory in the case of gas power plants, or to hear the Minister of Energy say that gas power plant builders must bite in the acidic apple and even take a significant part of the extra cost of CO2 cleaning – while the representative Nordtun goes out in the newspapers and says that the state must take the entire extra bill. Unfortunately, this disagreement has consequences. It is not only funny to witness it: the longer the government continues to give ambiguous and contradictory signals, the longer the players in both the energy industry and the petroleum industry sit on the fence and just wait. No one wants to start investing in millions or billions when they don't know what kind of framework they have to deal with some years ahead. With the many unsolved challenges in oil and energy policy, it is saddening for the nation that this government now appears to be even less effective than the previous one. And when we remember what the representative Nordtun and others criticized the previous government for when it came to paralysis, it's pretty serious. The government is obviously struggling to change from an opposition role to a steering role. There's very little helping with the speck of a better energy policy and a better petroleum policy as long as there's clearly disagreement in the government about what constitutes a better policy. In the name of propriety, the government will have more time before I expect to see concrete results – the representative Nordtun is right that they have only had power for a few months – but the more important it is that the government is already able to clarify fundamental issues, for example. the direction in which they will go, which is essential for Norwegian oil and gas policy. Let me do a couple of topical issues, first gas power plants. The energy balance is weak, and power generation in Norway is very dependent on weather conditions. 99 pst. the power generation comes from water. In central Norway, the need for power increases due to the expansion of the Worm Lange, the expansion of aluminium production and Hustadmarmor. These are projects requiring significant new impetus, which are currently not available. Statnet has stated that gas power plants are necessary to ensure the power supply in Middle Norway in 2010, because gas power plants are the only source of electricity that can ensure sufficient volume in a relatively short time and at an acceptable price. This I thought – naive as I was – would be a narrow matter for a new government. The Labour Party has for many years complained that gas power stations have not been built in Norway. The accusations against the Bondevik administration of inaction were repeated countless times in the previous four-year period. In particular, the key role of gas power in the power supply was underlined. The solution to the power crisis in Central Norway should therefore appear as obvious to today's government. But instead of facilitating the construction of gas power stations, the government creates uncertainty, both at economic, technological and not least at political level. It says that gas power plants will have CO2 handling. All new concessions shall have it, and all given concessions shall have it. But the government doesn't clarify anything about the costs. It is not enough to say that the state will contribute, as long as one does not say how much it will contribute. This situation must appear to be very uncomfortable for the Workers' Party. I can't understand anything else. It is not useful to hide behind a rhetoric that the State is going to contribute or refer to major visions of future CO2 injection into oil fields. In fact, we are talking about the need for new power – now. For all operators in the industry – for LO and for NHO representatives – it is obvious that if we are to build gas power plants, the State will have to take the full extra cost in addition to the price of CO2 allowances. It must do so in order to avoid imposing a number of peculiar restrictions on gas use, and there must be more concessions than what has been given today, so that we get built gas power stations where the benefits are greater. The energy minister has recognised the weak power balance but has not yet provided realistic solutions to the problem. The solutions that have been put forward so far have been too small, too long, too costly. But today's power-processing industry doesn't live by the fact that the power might come in 2015. They actually need power today. The need for clarification is therefore great, both in terms of production and consumption. Therefore, the Progress Party hopes that the government parties will participate in and support the proposal that the Government present its own big message on the ‘Energy State of the Kingdom’. The suggestion is in the setting. The other applies to gas — to Grenland, for industrial use. Far from 99 pst. Norwegian natural gas is exported. At the same time, Norway is at risk of rations in a dry year. A lot can be said about this. Let me quote Sylvia Brustad, former Energy Policy spokesman in the Workers' Party – I hope it will be listened to in the Workers' Party. She has said several times, among others. in the Telemarks newspaper: ‘It is embarrassing that one of the world’s leading energy producers is still unable to process its own gas.’ ‘State participation in the construction of a gas pipeline system must be compared to the construction of roads and railways.’ We want to invest SEK 3 billion in an infrastructure company that will, among other things, facilitate gas pipelines and gas power plants in Grenland. This will create jobs and lead to a more stable power supply and thus also more stable power prices. There are only advantages with a gas power plant and a gas pipeline in Grenland, and therefore we are for both." [[...]] Now the Workers' Party is in government with a clear majority behind it, but unfortunately the pipe has got a different sound. Now one should wait and see, one should evaluate and evaluate. I think it's a little sad to see that the Workers' Party's good opposition position has shifted towards a waiting and looking attitude now that they have power and influence. It is important that the authorities take responsibility for the main gas infrastructure, in the same way as for electricity. It is a bit strange that a government that focuses on public ownership in all other areas of energy and oil policy, just in the case of gas pipes, is constantly drawing up the possibility for private investors. Gassco is now carrying out an analysis of the potential for gas pipelines to Grenland. They should be able to tell stakeholders: if you agree to an obligation to buy gas, we will guarantee that the funding is in place. Today there is no such guarantee. I think it is unreasonable to expect business to commit when the authorities themselves do not want to make a commitment. I therefore hope that the government parties will demonstrate their willingness to take responsibility and support the proposal to give a state-owned company a guarantee that it will be allocated NOK 5 billion in equity for the development of the main gas infrastructure. This does not mean that we need to grant the 5 billion kroner today, but it will be a signal of a guarantee that that money will be in place as soon as the pipeline is planned. Unfortunately, it is not only in the case of gas infrastructure that this government has shown disappointing will. The same applies to Statnett. The company is facing large investments in the central network. There's something Stortinget has been familiar with for a long time. Now they need the injection of equity. The size has, after all, been relatively generous in the equity of the former state budget, so there's very little right now. But both the Bondevik government and the Stoltenberg government have failed. We therefore risk Statnett postponing investments in the mains power grid. This puts security of supply at risk. In addition, Statnett risks reducing its credit rating, which according to the information manager Tor Inge Akssen may result in increased borrowing costs already in the new year. It also increases the risk of increased network rental. This matter has become very topical since the Government had demolished the Competition Authority to a medium-sized consultation body in the State Power case. Then was one of the government's arguments that bottlenecks in the central network would be remedied, so that State power's ability beyond market power would disappear. But by not granting money to Statnett, you will not be able to remove those bottlenecks either. So the government has put itself in a dilemma that I would like to see a solution to. Either it has to restructure its Statkraft decision again, or it has to make sure that the money comes to Statknet, so that they can make the necessary investments. I hope the government parties see the need for consistency between life and learning and support the proposal to grant NOK 2 billion to Statnett. That possibility has the government parties when, in a few days' time, the Stortinget treats budget cuts. S. No 6, of the Financial Committee. The representative of Nordtun considered that there was no possibility of uncertainty in the case of petroleum activities in the north. And it's quite interesting to read in today's Stavanger Evening Magazine that the Barents Sea Management Plan is not a protection plan, but an industrial plan. I think it's quite uplifting to hear that. That is why I hope that more representatives and government councils will participate and sign that the representative Nordtun actually supports this statement. I'm comparing this a little bit with other statements we've heard lately. For example, Minister for the Environment, Bjørnøy, says to the evening post on 30 November that she will in no way exclude petroleum-free zones in the Barents Sea, and she says that it is a prerequisite that a good management plan is in place before the implementation of the 19th concession round. The websites of SV refer to the party's national government meeting two weeks ago. The Minister for the Environment said that "the sight of light petroleum men increases my fighting spirit", and she promised, according to the same record, that the Barents Sea Protection Plan would be ready in the spring of 2006. Firstly, I note that the party to the Council of State responsible for drawing up the management plan refers to the management plan as a protective plan. That, I think, is a bit of a bad signal and is very much in contrast to the claims of the representative Nordtun. I hope, then, that the government in today's debate will clarify whether we are talking about an industrial plan, or whether we are talking about a protection plan, but I have to admit that I fear that with SV in government, the oil industry will end up in a short time under the heading of cultural memory protection. That would be very unfortunate. The latest figures from the Oil Directorate show that there has been a significant decline in Norwegian oil production in the last year. One cannot in any way blame today's government for this, but the government must know its visitation time and not tighten up the industry's opportunities, either in the north or in other areas. I therefore hope that the Government and the Government parties can agree on what the Government's policy will be in this area. I also hope that the Government will clarify a little about the time dimensions for the 19th concession round and for the management plan. As I said, according to the Minister for Oil and Energy, the management plan will be presented in the first quarter, and will be dealt with at best by the Stortinget in the second quarter, i.e. one quarter after the 19th concession round has been awarded. For the Progress Party, it is important that no delays or uncertainties occur around 19th round. Norway's reputation among international oil companies would be seriously harmed if that were the case. After all, not all oil companies in the world are governed by Norwegians with experience or understanding of Norwegian symbol politics. As I said, the Minister of Oil and Energy has promised several times that 19th round will go as planned. According to the Evening Post, the Minister for the Environment said that 19th round should wait for the management plan. Then the question is, what's going on? Should the 19th round be as planned, or should it be according to the management plan? Because then we're already talking about a quarterly postponement. And there are some parties in this room who are very happy to be able to deal with the management plan, because they think they should be able to influence it by introducing petroleum-free zones. There is also the question: what role will the Storting play in the management plan? If the management plan is dealt with after the 19th round is awarded, one will in reality have no effect on it, unless we are in danger of converting the area allocated in the 19th round in the first quarter into petroleum-free areas in the second quarter. It would also be very unfortunate for the predictability of the Norwegian oil industry. I would also like to refer to the many proposals made by the Progress Party to ensure better financing for petroleum research in Norway. It is, after all, the most important industry in the country, and it will provide a significant share of Norwegian value creation and export income in the coming years. The Progress Party has several times proposed that research be carried out through fund allocation. We want to set up a research fund of DKK 10 billion, where the return is used for research. We are very pleased that research in petroleum-related areas has increased significantly in recent years during the Bondevik administration, but we still believe that it is important to get a much higher predictability in this area, and therefore want to support future research funding that is funded. It is, after all, an important source of income for the state, and the state should therefore have an even greater responsibility for providing adequate resources. Then I will end by talking a little bit about Hardangervidda, because it is also an area that shows an undecided policy in the new government – but also the policy of the outgoing government created raised eyebrows in the Progress Party. So when we look at what the new government has done, it's said with a bunch of bad guys that it's going to buy a property at Huk for $30 million. kr, which provides a few additional metres of beach zone, a small lawn to sunbathe on and certainly the world's most expensive café building, while a few hundred metres further away in the street is a 500-metre beach zone that has expired for several decades, and where there is no funding from the Directorate of Nature Management to operate. But at the same time, it's not worth buying a property of 146 000 measures in Hardangervida. It could be worth a maximum of 25 million. kr, according to a statement by the Government, i.e. 5 million. kr less. When we see this in connection with Bolärne – it was so important with public ownership that one could not sell to private people, even if the same all-person right would apply there – I also want in this area a clarification from the Government on what would really be the criteria for when the government is going to buy, and when the state is not going to buy, private property in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e463	As far as the Progress Party is concerned, what they say may not matter, but what they don't say. Gas power stations and more use of gas are important, but it is also our responsibility for the environment. And the Progress Party believes that today's climate policy is symbolic. We have also recorded repeatedly that the Progress Party does not take into account the seriousness of the climate problems. Not least, Solvik-Olsen's articles here today have just underlined this. Therefore, I think there is a basis for asking Solvik-Olsen whether the Progress Party is of the opinion that there are no human-made climate problems. If he answers yes, that it does not exist, there is reason to ask what is going on in research and natural events so that the Progress Party is convinced. If he does not reply, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, how they can defend the fact that the Ministry of the Environment budget has been almost wiped out by the draft budget of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e470	It was a predictable question, given that even the Right is not quite able to read our comments in the field of climate policy. We're not saying, as some people here are trying to put in our mouths, that man-made climate change cannot be an opportunity. What we're saying is that today it's too early to conclude that there are anthropogenic climate change and CO2 that are the cause of absolutely all the effects that we're looking at today's climate. As far as gas policy is concerned, let's meet our energy needs as they are today. After all, we have an industry that lives from power-based production. Let's meet the need in the households to get heat, and make sure we get the power we need. Then we can do parallel runs with research on CO2 management and other alternative energy sources. But we have to have some realism in what we do, so that the needs we have today are met today. Then we can also solve things that go under international environmental measures, but then a few international agreements about it and not a number of strange agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e486	I wonder if the representative Solvik-Olsen can help me a little to read comments related to the ongoing climate change. The progressing party now says by its fractional leader that it is too early to conclude. The ice on Greenland melts, New Orleans is ruined. We see that the glaciers melt at Svalbard and we see that climate change is likely to be causing anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Then, in Rio in 1992, they agreed to the precautionary principle, that when there is reason to believe that one is facing major environmental challenges, one should address them before it is too late. My question to the Progress Party is: Is it the case that the Advance Party is a supporter of the leading goods-principle of Rio? If the Progress Party is in favour of the precautionary principle of environmental policy, is it not now that there are so many indications that CO2 emissions that are man-made also contribute to a change in the climate that the Progress Party should also support a policy based on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e496	As I said, we are not as convinced as the representative, Mr Brende and other representatives, that we are facing demonstrably man-made climate change. I also believe that the former Environment Minister, Mr. Børge Burnde, will feel that several researchers in the Intergovernmental Panel have disagreed that strong hurricanes in the Gulf necessarily have something to do with climate change at all. In fact, Hurricane researcher Landsea went out in the climate panel because he thought there was a politicized research going on that had nothing to do with the realities. In the case of ewes was – yes, of course you should be carrying the var. But looking at what has become the consequences of the Kyoto agreement, it is likely – if everything is implemented and all forecasts are correct – that will mean a reduction in any temperature increase by 0.14 degrees plus/minus please. It's such a small effect of the agreement, and we've got seven years to think about it, that if we wait a few years before an action takes place, because one would like to have an even clearer proof of what the cause is, we're willing to wait a few years to get better action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e503	The Progress Party makes me a little curious as they begin to suggest that climate change positions should change. Some of us have been to climate conferences before and know that a permanent feature there has been a parliamentarian from the Progress Party, called Vaksdal, who has always had an entire page in the VG or in the Dagbladet, who proudly sits at the climate conference and says that this does not make any sense at all. Now it seems that having been a trip to Montreal might have made a little bit of an impression on the representative Solvik-Olsen, and that he is now a little bit changing the position of the Progress Party. You're suggesting that you're drifting -- maybe something's happening. Maybe it'll only be two years before the Progress Party does what the rest of the world has done, realize that we're experiencing man-made climate change. Is that right, or should the Advance Party wait until it's too late to do anything, before they turn?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e508	Can the President ask whether Mr Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e511	Can I do this? I will then take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e516	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e519	It seems that the former government party and the government party have found the tone after the government change, and that is nice. As far as the climate is concerned, the Progress Party is not as unfurnished as some media like to present us. In fact, we have been very interested in following the research that has happened. However, unlike current and previous government parties, we also experience that there are actually a number of research environments that are not so blatant as to claim that the climate change that may now take place – we do not know whether they are long-term or short-term – is man-made. I am not particularly affected by the fact that a number of politicians are holding hallelujah speeches in Montreal that the man-made climate change needs to be reduced now. I'd rather listen to the research communities. That is why I look forward to the next report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. If it then unequivocally says that climate change is man-made, not necessarily 100 p.m., but at least that it is predominantly likely that they are man-made, it is obvious that we will also be involved and see if we can get other measures. But per year. Today, I believe that the uncertainty is so great that there are other environmental measures that should be more focused on than a possible CO2 element, which costs a lot and causes serious damage to Norwegian industry in the way it is implemented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e535	I don't think it's natural to get rid of the whole discussion that was now about climate change. There is no doubt that the biggest environmental challenge and the biggest environmental problem facing us globally is climate change. I think it is 600 researchers linked to the IPCC, which is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. They say that there is every reason to believe that the climate change that we are now facing and that we have seen the beginning of is man-made. So the Progress Party says you're not as convinced. There is something one just has to take along, but I think it is important that the basis of this policy must be linked to the precautionary principle that has been agreed since Rio in 1992. Of course, there may also be other factors that also affect the world’s climate, such as: sun and other conditions. But how the sun irradiates, it's little we can do with, like human beings. What we can actually influence is that the wool carpet – which is of course an advantage around the earth – does not get so thick that we live in a clean greenhouse. That is what we now need to take a stand on and have a policy in relation to the years ahead. I also hope that there will be a development in which the Progress Party can participate in a policy that will help to achieve effective international action and consensus on them, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In terms of energy, it is one of the major international issues and will be so in the years to come. It's 1.6 billion people who don't have electricity on a daily basis. It is clear that if they are to achieve a better standard of living in the future, they must also have the opportunity to obtain electricity. This, of course, also affects energy consumption in the world. World energy consumption has doubled in the last few decades and is expected to continue to increase sharply. Over 85 pst. of current energy consumption is covered by fossil fuels. I am sitting here with a report where IFE and Kjell H. Bendiksen write that most accepted forecasts suggest a growth in the global energy demand of over 60 pst. in the next 30 years. It shows that we have an incredibly important task to get a much stronger growth in renewable energy sources. It is also the case that fossil energy sources and their most environmentally friendly natural gas sources must provide a bridge from the heavier fossil energy sources, which are today coal and oil, to the renewables. Therefore, I believe that Norway as an energy nation has an important role to play in terms of using the gas, also offensively in the years to come. There has been some discussion about the Barents Sea and how the oil and gas in the Barents Sea will develop in the years to come. It is not, in fact, a question of future oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. The question is whether it should only be done on the Russian side, or whether it should also be done on the Norwegian side. Norway is very offensive in participating in the Shtokman development and in other Russian oil and gas fields. The reason why we're attractive is that we have some of the most leading international environments in the field of Arctic climate, tough climate, deep water and tough conditions. Some claim that Norway is a pure commodity exporter of oil and gas. The point is that last year Norway exported SEK 37 billion in equipment related to the offshore sector globally. It's equipment developed because we've built up our continental shelf, and because we've set some of the strictest environmental requirements. For me, it is absolutely essential that the two large billion industries – oil and gas, and fish – should go hand in hand. One cannot rule out the other. It is clear that developments in the Barents Sea will also take place on environmental premises. We're going to be leading the world in terms of setting zero emission requirements and so on. However, in the development of North Norway, of jobs, the rational development of oil and gas and this important business activity in Norway, one in this management plan must also have an open view of how we are to proceed. Therefore, it was with great interest that I read Stavanger Aftenblad where Tore Nordtun of the Workers' Party stated that this should be an industrial plan. I have noticed that the Minister for the Environment said to the evening post on 30 November 2005: ‘Shall fight for the cramp to take me’ in order to ensure that the precautionary principle is to govern the oil industry in the Barents Sea. I think it makes sense that the precautionary principle should apply, but I hope that a solution will also be found which means that we do not now exclude North Norway and the Barents Sea from future oil and gas activities, and that we will have that matter dealt with in Stortinget as quickly as possible. So over to the other question I also mentioned in a line exchange with Nordtun, and that concerns gas. In Norway, we have not had any new gas plants in recent years. What's the reason for that? In the previous period it was that Sylvia Brustad from the Workers' Party and, not least, Olav Akselsen should have it that it was the previous government that would not have these gas power plants. Actually, that wasn't right. In any case, I think it would have been very good if we had got gas power plants that could have replaced Russian nuclear power or the oldest coal power plants in Denmark. But the problem and challenge were linked to the price and whether it was profitable to implement these gas power plants. It's still so that they're only marginally profitable. Therefore, Industriekraft Mid-Norway says that if they receive a cleaning claim related to their business, the State has to cover this excess. Otherwise, it won't be economic. This also says Natural Force, which is facing this expansion on Kårstø. I think, like the representative Solvik-Olsen of the Progress Party, that it is incredibly important to clarify in this debate whether it is such that the Government will go in and cover such a significant part of the bill; that it will not be such that the demand for a strange CO2 cleaning will lead to the gas power plants not being implemented. It is sad if in four years' time we are also in a situation where the Norwegian power balance is such that we have to import 4 to 6 TWh in a normal year, and that we do not get the industrial travel and predictability associated with electricity in Norway that we need. Therefore, we now need to clarify that with regard to the additional requirements in relation to CO2 management – there are, of course, many arguments in favour of it – it has to be stated that this surplus is to be covered by the State. Otherwise I'm afraid there won't be any of these gas power plants. For the time being, the State Council, Odd Roger Enoxen, has also raised a discussion about exactly this specific issue. The council says we're going to go into a dialogue, and then we're going to see how much bill we're going to cover. However, it now makes it quite clear that gas power stations must be implemented, and that the State must also cover these costs. We need to find out. Otherwise, I have noticed that as far as the government's supplementary budget is concerned, there is a continuation of important elements of the policy of the Bondevik II Government. In the supplementary budget, the new government has received an extra SEK 1.2 billion at its disposal. You have chosen to use 2.4 pst. of these resources in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. I experienced in the last period how many hundred million not least SV and the Workers' Party were going to spend both on Gyro betting and liming. I have noticed that it is clearly the broad lines of our budget that are now being continued. It also shows that it was a good budget for the Ministry of the Environment. In the case of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the considerable investment in research related to oil and gas, petroleum research, which is sensible, has also been continued. There we had an increase over the last two years of over 200 million. kr. A significant increase here is also sensible national economics, because then we can increase the output of the available wells. We are now facing an exciting political debate in the years to come on whether Norway will become even more dependent on energy from other countries, or whether we will have an offensive energy policy, which will help us to start exploiting natural gas as well. We will then see whether this new government is serious about the development of jobs and the north in the environmental context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e583	The representative Børge Burnde was in a line earlier today and now in his post as far as the power balance was concerned. I have also heard other representatives from the Right express concern about this. I believe that it is right and important to pay attention to this. But it can't be a new recognition from the Right after they've been neglecting for four years in government when it comes to doing something about this, whether we're talking about building gas power plants or investing in alternative energy. I couldn't believe – it could be because of a bit of a feverish head – that the representative Børge Brende had an answer to the challenge that was just in the absence of a power balance in Norway. So I would like to challenge Fire at the following: Why did the Right in its reign so little to correct this imbalance?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e590	At least it's interesting to note that today's government parties have an offensive attitude towards the power balance. It is believed that the former government has neglected in order to correct the balance of forces, and here you have to make way for the well-being. It will be interesting to follow this in the next four years and see what concrete measures are being taken to reduce Norway’s dependence on imports of very little environmentally friendly energy from other countries. As far as the Bondevik II government is concerned, we carried out more hydropower expansions over the four years we were sitting, than was done throughout the 1990s. There was also a new speed in renewable energy sources related to Enova, and very high wind energy-related targets were set. But I agree that it is a pity that we were not able to implement gas power plants that could have been replaced by polluting coal power. It seems that the new government should take this into account, but then you cannot send an extra bill so that it becomes even less profitable to implement it. There you have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e599	There was a lot of talk about climate change, as expected from Rørres Børge Burnde. Fire has been an avid spokesman for increased gas use in Norway and also increased oil and gas production in Norway based on CO2 injection. Now, if we're going to do this, it necessarily means increased Norwegian oil production, and that's good. But it is also such that this increased production will necessarily be used elsewhere in the world and therefore lead to increased CO2 emissions there. Does not Burne see that there is a bit of scorching in his way of thinking about increasing the production of gas and oil in Norway, and at the same time does he have this climatic position that he has? I think he should explain what he really wants on this issue. It's a little difficult to get what he really means here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e614	Unlike the Progress Party, I have no problem explaining my climate policy position. I am a follower of the Kyoto Protocol, and I took the initiative to have it ratified by Norway. There was a broad consensus on this in Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party. I believe that the man-made climate change we are facing now requires global action. It requires action in Norway, which we have started to implement, and it also requires global action. Now, overall, action costs are lower in a number of countries than they are in Norway. In Norway, we are in that situation at 97 pst. electricity comes from hydropower, so we can't shut down an old coal power plant to meet our climate obligations. I believe that we should do a significant job in the future nationally, but also internationally. So you could say, isn't it a paradox that we're an oil and gas nation? I believe that we need to be able to have offensive oil and gas policies in Norway, but within the Kyoto commitments and within the climate commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e623	The representative, Mr. Børge Burnde, was not in the right of repatriation in his post, and it was perhaps as expected. Why? Indeed, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, agree that further work on the right of return must retain adequate national governance and control. This has not been found on the right to join, while the Christian People's Party and the Left – the former government comrades of the Right – agree with the majority of the Committee in this position. Is there a complete division of civil society in the principles of the right of repatriation? Is it really true that the Right believes that national governance and control are not important when we talked about the hydropower resource, our inheritance silver?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e630	The previous government was clearly informed by ESA, i.e. the EU monitoring organisation in relation to the EEA Agreement, that the legislation relating to repatriation that we have today is not in line with the current policy. It is therefore necessary to review it and look at a new design of this legislation. That work had started with the previous government, and I have noticed that the new government is now working on designing a regulatory framework that will be robust, also in relation to the internal market and EU requirements. Of course, I look forward to such a work being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e635	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e638	‘Norway will become a priority country in environmental policy. In order for future generations to have access to a good environment and a clean nature, environmental considerations need to be comprehensive in everything we do.’ ‘The nature and environmental protection dimension must be acidic planning across all sectors.’ ‘Norway’s environmental policy should be based on the precautionary principle, which states that the doubt must benefit nature, on the principles that polluter pays and on the use of the best available technology.’ ‘Norway should be a driving force in international environmental work’.‘The environmental challenge requires international cooperation, but also that we are able to think globally and act locally’. This is all an extract from the chapter of the Soria Moria Declaration on the Environment. SV is proud to take part in a government that has set itself the goal of repatriating Norway as an environmental policy country. In this context, the State budget, the budgetary position, is a small but important step in the process of fulfilling the Soria Moria platform. The loss of species diversity in Norwegian nature shall be halted by 2010. This is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and it is shared by a broad majority in the Stortinget. Globally, hundreds of species are eradicated every year, and something has to be done about it. We don't know many of the species that we're eradicating. We haven't examined them genetically, and we don't know what taxes they can hide, of what we might need in the future. The best way to describe what's happening in eradicating plant and animal species in the world is to burn libraries that we don't know the content of. In order to achieve the goal of halting the eradication of species by 2010, it is important that we now start work on a natural index for Norway and that it does so quickly. It is important that work is knowledge-based. If we are to achieve this, it is important to ensure good working conditions for the Art Database, which provides basic knowledge of what is biological diversity in Norway. I am pleased that a joint committee is concerned that we should take care of the wild. A joint committee says that we should strengthen the work, and I look forward to the further work on ‘Willrein and Society’. In fact, if you're on Hardangervidda and you see a reindeer, you have to go all the way down to Kenya to see an equal amount of biomass in motion. It says something about the international responsibility we have to take care of the wild train. I am also pleased that a joint committee is concerned that we should take care of one of the most threatened species in Norwegian nature, namely the mountain reefs, and strengthen that work. The Soria Moria Declaration states that Wefsna should be protected, and I am pleased that this also has broad support in the Stortinget. The entire committee is concerned, however, in various comments, that we need to protect the wild species. We've already lost 45 populations, 28 of them are directly threatened, and 54 are now classified as vulnerable. The Committee is concerned and responds to a reinforced effort to save the wild species. The Swedish Government also meets with a new case on the establishment of national salmon watercourses. However, in Norway, most vulnerable plant and animal species are in the forest, and it is therefore good to see that a broad majority want the Government to come back with measures to increase forest protection. Norway has many beautiful national parks. We are meeting an action plan on sustainable use and their care. We believe that national parks in Norway have a great potential for developing what we call a green travel life. Outdoor activities shall be the source of quality of life, recreation and better public health. Ensuring public access to Norwegian nature is fundamental to this government. We are pleased that we have increased the commitment power to purchase properties for outdoor purposes with a total of 175 pst. in relation to what the previous government did. There's someone who laughs and thinks that Huk is a small, dirty beach area. The beach at Huk is the most used in all of Norway. It's more than half a million people who have access to this area. The fact that we've got it and given it to the public is something we're proud to have managed to do. We are also proud that we have reintroduced the legal assistance to the municipalities to secure beach areas. I would also like to say in this context that the majority is responding to an assessment of how to ensure attractive beach properties in the most appropriate way, including an assessment of the creation of a separate hedging fund. Many of us have been critical of and afraid of the developments we see in the mountain world. Many of us believe that in the mountain world we are now facing the situation we were facing when it came to the ocean zone in 1970, that areas are becoming speculative properties. For this reason, the majority welcomes the return of the Government with measures to ensure public or locally anchored ownership. The Soria Moria Declaration states that we are to work for people to experience a non-toxic everyday life, and to ensure that children are not exposed to environmental pollutants in their growing-up environment. Our fjords shall be food vats and open air areas, not toxic waste sites. We have greatly increased the appropriations for cleaning up our fjords, but we know that there is still a lot of work to be done before we can report Norwegian fjords, and we want an offensive to get there. At the same time, we also know that there are tens of thousands of chemicals out in the consumer market that we don't know the content of, and we don't know the consequences of. We know that many of these chemicals are so-called hormone inhibitors that affect hormone balance, which can lead to everything from childlessness to lower intelligence and brain damage in animals and humans. This is a challenge we have to take more seriously than we have now. We know a lot of chemicals poorly, but the knowledge that is most lacking relates to the consequences of the mixture of chemicals that we are exposed to every day. This is why we are responding to our own survey on pollutants as a first step towards a more offensive chemical and environmental policy in Norway. The Soria Moria Declaration states that dangerous climate change is one of the greatest environmental challenges facing humanity. If we don't get greenhouse gas emissions down, we create unrecoverable environmental problems. Six of us in the hall were in Montreal and so Norway played a constructive role. New commitments will now be negotiated after 2012. At the same time, I can't let go of the reflection that when I left Kyoto eight years ago, jubilating that we had an agreement, the general optimism was greater than it is today. There are major challenges that remain for us to be able to get the world community to take the issues seriously. It is a very big task, which requires Norway to stand together as a driver, and we have the opportunity to do so. That's why we're very happy that we're going to have ambitious measures here at home. We are pleased that we are going to present sectoral climate action plans, so that we can see that all sectors contribute. We're glad we're going to be involved in creating a value chain for CO2. The next day of the conference, we heard a talk from the former president of the United States, Bill Clinton. His appeal was quite clear, and it also went directly to Norway as an oil producing country: although we can't agree on everything now, there's no reason not to do what we know is tricked. And what we know is trickery, what saves the environment and creates jobs, is investing in and investing in the new renewable energy sources. He was quite clear and said that it must now be over to look at new renewable energy sources as something small, and that it must be over to ridicule those who are talking about this as the future. This is the future. He pointed to Denmark and said that no one in Denmark was tired of getting 20 pst. from windmills and has a large export industry in the form of windmills. What was small has become big. The side effect of this is that you have created a lot of jobs. We're going to create a value chain for CO2. We know that regardless of whether we make a major effort on new renewable energy sources and energy saving, we depend on fossil energy sources for a long time. But then we have to remove the pollution, the fossil energy sources have to be decarbonised. The only hope you can see is to bring down emissions to countries like China, Brazil and India, which have coal reserves, is to find a way to export technology to them, so that they can bring down their emissions. And if Norway, as an oil exporting country that has served to contribute to pollution, is able to contribute to the creation of this technology, then we have done something that is a moon landing project for this country, but that also gives us the world's best platform to be among the safest and most powerful when working to reach international agreements, which we are totally dependent on meeting the greatest environmental challenge we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e696	I will begin by saying that it was nice that Sørensen did not blame the Progress Party for the failure of optimism about the Kyoto Protocol. The representative Sørensen also referred to the Soria Moria statement, and so do I. It says of predators: «Assessing stock numbers from the effect on grazing, grazing animals and the quality of life of people in predatory areas.» The Directorate for Nature Management has recently rejected an application for a whaling act. Last weekend, 24 wolves were counted in the Elverum districts, partly close to the interior and in the gardens of the people. This causes fear in the population, at least in that part of the population that has young children. I expect the representative Sørensen to understand that. If I interpret the Soria Moria statement correctly, the people of Elverum can expect the Government to grant the application when it is now appealed to the Ministry of the Environment. If not, what does the representative, Sørensen, say, have to do to grant such an application?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e708	We in SV have recorded that the Progress Party has grown quite strongly lately and has become a quite large party in Norway. But global influence, I think, we can be happy that they haven't got yet, so that the Progress Party should have some fault that international climate negotiations aren't going any further, so far we probably haven't come. That's right, the representative now quotes from the Soria Moria statement. But it also says that we're going to have living populations of all the big predators, and we're going to manage predators in such a way that we can ensure it. In that case, it is not the case that anyone applying for a penitentiary permit will receive it. We do not process the case from Stortinget's pulpit, but it is important for us to ensure that the wolf will also have a place in Norwegian nature. According to the Soria Moria Declaration, it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e715	Something has happened to SV and the representative Heidi Sørensen after the party entered the government position. SV has moved away from its ultimate no to petroleum activities in the north, a compromise that I assume Heidi Sørensen, who linked himself firmly in connection with the snow-white development, must seem to be a significant defeat. Further development of petroleum activities in the north is important for economic development in North Norway and for more equivalent cooperation with the Russians. The equivalence of this cooperation will depend very much on the content of the management plan to be included by the Government in the spring. At the recent Swedish National Board meeting, the Minister for the Environment, Helen Bjørnøy, called the management plan for the protection plan. I don't know if it was to alleviate the climate in the national government meeting, or is it SV's opinion that the management plan should be a protection plan? In that case, that is bad news for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e722	I am grateful for the opportunity to say something about a matter I am burning for. I would just like to say first of all: the management plan must be a management plan. The definition was given by the previous government, and that has not changed this government. But it's true, as the representative Aspaker points out, SV has not got what we wanted in all respects in terms of oil development in the Barents Sea. It is also correct, as the representative Burnde said before today, that there is no question of whether or not there will be petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. We realize that Snow White is being built – it will be petroleum activity, maybe they'll get something on the Russian side as well. So something's going to happen. But what we've got is an openness about the debate about the petroleum-free areas, and we've got an openness about the exploration concessions. I have to say, I am surprised at how critical the State pollution control was, and not least how critical the Directorate of Nature Management was to the knowledge base we are now being invited to make a decision on. I think it's interesting that these facts come on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e729	In a recent study done for the Evening Post, a whole 81 pst says. they asked that they are to a large extent or to some extent afraid of the climate change caused by the greenhouse effect. Still, the whole 54 pst says. that they will not change their own use of a car to take account of the environment. In the post of the representative, Sørensen, we were told that we should act locally, and we should be a country in the first place. Yes, here it is possible to act both locally and as a leading country if SV will work for the Government to increase the petrol tax in order to improve the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e734	I also registered that investigation in the evening post, and I am happy to complete 81 p.m. of Norway’s population takes the climate noise seriously and has realized that we need to do something. But I have also recorded that the will for action was somewhat less than the Christian People's Party, Left, SV and some other parties would have preferred to see that it was. After four years in the Committee on Transport, it is sad to see that our function there has not led to a more positive attitude to put the car away. At this point, the Soria Moria statement is ready. We want an increased bet on green taxes, so it won't pay to pollute. They're the ones that don't contaminate. They're the ones that have to be premiered. We have said that we should present something offensive about that. It is also about getting a stake in public transport, not least in the big cities, where the challenges are greatest. I am therefore pleased that we have wasted so much money on Kommune-Norge, because if we were annoyed in the last period, it was that the small thing we got over the Ministry of Transport's budget was eaten up by the fact that the money to the municipalities disappeared in the large drain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e742	It's going to the end of the Year of Outdoor Life. Throughout the year, an environmentally friendly outdoor life has been marketed that promotes health and quality of life. As politicians, we cannot, and should not, decide what people should do in leisure time, but we can facilitate that as much as possible can benefit from an active outdoor life. Throughout the year there have been hundreds of activities and markings across the country. Many events have been carried out on a voluntary basis. Through this, a good basis has been laid for an open-air life that I am very pleased that the government is continuing in its draft budget. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to increase public access to open-air areas in general and beach areas in particular. The Bondevik II Governments introduced a more offensive coastal zone policy. Among other things, municipalities, county councils and county councillors were challenged to a stricter practice in dealing with planks and exemptions in the 100-meter belt. The first thing this government did was buy Schiøttsweg 8 on Bygdøy in Oslo to secure free space for the public. There is a pressure on publicly available beach areas, especially in the South and in the Oslofjorden. Some in the Oslo area are therefore likely to enjoy this purchase. What we're criticising, on the other hand, is the relationship between the price paid by the Government for the property and the value it brings to the public access to beach areas, measured against other alternatives. I believe it is very critical that there was no professional assessment of the purchase in the department or any other professional background work. The Christian People's Party therefore opposes the purchase of Schiøttsvej 8 on Bygdøy. We want to allocate these resources to acquire properties that can improve public access to the beach areas, based on professional judgement. Prime Minister Stoltenberg proudly showed the purchase of 65 meters of beach on Bygdøy: «We do not negotiate. We're acting." The Christian People's Party notes that this government did not act as regards the purchase of 146 000 targets at Hardangervidda. The purchase of Vestre Vollane was also concerned with safeguarding the public's interests in the open air for future generations. It is true that the rights of all persons apply, but there is a risk that hunting and fishing resources will be made more exclusive with private actors. SV's Environmental Policy Spokesperson at Stortinget himself spoke to VG on 5 November this year: ‘This is an important principle issue for SV. We don't want Hardangervidda to be a playground for rich people." We can now only notice in retrospect that this principle goes to 25 million. SEK, 5 million. kr lower than the Government was willing to pay for the beach on Bygdøy. The Bondevik II government was concerned with ensuring everyone's accessibility to cultural memories and the cultural environment. That is why Mr Hareide, Minister for the Environment at that time, also had a budget proposal with a record investment in cultural memories, with an increase of 50 million. kr. It's the greatest economic escalation in this field ever, and I'm glad that the Stoltenberg government is continuing this. In addition, the fund capital of the Cultural Memory Fund was doubled, to a total of 800 million. kr. A dedicated value creation programme is also established. The aim here is to create projects to demonstrate how sustainable use of cultural memories and environments can strengthen local communities and regions and promote business development. We need increased environmental knowledge. We need knowledge to protect nature and improve the state of the environment. This is not least the case in the northern regions. Norwegian sea areas are among the cleanest and perhaps the richest in the world. Here we find the world's largest population of seabirds, fish and marine mammals. However, both fisheries, aquaculture, ship traffic and petroleum activity may harm the marine environment if the impacts become too high. Ship traffic along the Norwegian coast is increasing, petroleum activity is approaching land, and a large increase in the aquaculture industry is expected. In addition, land-based emissions from the northern hemisphere are transported to our seas with wind and ocean currents. The overall management plan shall assess the impacts on the marine environment together. The environment is particularly vulnerable along the coast of North Norway and the Barents Sea. The Christian People's Party stresses that environmental and safety considerations must come first, and on this basis the Christian People's Party supports a cautious line in petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. We will establish petroleum-free zones outside the Lofoten, the Western Sea and the Barents Sea. Where these should be, it will only be clear after the entire management plan is available for spring, and we look forward to it with excitement. The climate problem is the biggest environmental challenge facing the world today. International and national measures must therefore be implemented. The Christian People's Party is in favour of national measures prohibiting the deposition of organic matter from 2009. But above all, it is important to develop technologies that reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gases. The creation of Gassnova and the Gas Eco-Technology Fund were important to increase the focus on the development of CO2 cleaning technologies. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party did not get the government parties on the increased investment in environmentally friendly gas technology in the adjustment to next year's budget. The government has stated in its statement that we are going to be world leaders on just environmentally friendly gas. For the Christian People's Party, such a view means that the Government must not grant new permits or extend current concessions for the construction of gas power stations without CO2 management. I therefore challenge the Government to demand CO2 management at the planned gas power plants both on the Tent Goods, Mongstad and Skogn. Gassco will report to the Ministry of Oil and Energy in a few weeks on the results of the discussions with the industry in Grenland and Trøndelag on possible pipelines for the transport of natural gas hit. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to this report. Further work has also been undertaken, including, where appropriate, an analytical guide to, inter alia: Eastfold and maybe further to Sweden, there are exciting plans. Much of our welfare society is a result of our oil revenues. We've invested in the community. Our oil resources have provided many jobs, directly and indirectly. As politicians responsible for our oil resources, we have a responsibility to think in the long term within nature's limit of tolerance. For the Christian People's Party, this is about taking our responsibility seriously in relation to being the administrator of the earth we live on. Gas and oil are important, but the Christian People's Party believes it is vital that we continue to bet on renewable energy. Energy supply in Norway must be secure and must be provided in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner. The aim must be to increase energy production based on new renewable energy, to reduce the use of electricity for heating and to increase flexibility in terms of the energy source we use for heating. Environmental toxins are almost impossible to get rid of once they've been released into nature, as they're slightly degraded into nature. Environmental toxins are currently used in common products such as PCs, telephones and clothes to provide better products. Many consumers do not know the risk that pollutants can pose. We must therefore have a long-term objective to stop all emissions of pollutants. It's going to go to Christmas, and we're all going to help make the trading booth this year set new records as well. Despite this, I have a vision that our consumption has to go down. We produce huge amounts of garbage, and I hope that waste can be used more as a resource. The Bondevik II government aimed at at at least 80 pst. the waste was to be recovered. This is a goal that I hope the current government will also work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e791	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e794	During the election campaign in the fall it was repeated to the tedious by the Right-Representatives that only they would remain in power, there would be speed in the oil and gas activities in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. The worst thing that could happen, they thought, was if the red-greens took over with SV on the layer. It was probably a great exaggeration, for it now turns out in the budget setting that both the Left and the Christian People's Party will have petroleum-free zones in these sea areas before the management plan is presented. What does that mean? Well, the velocity wouldn't increase with the blue, yellow, and semi-green. What's strange is that the Left suggested areas of protection in the campaign, but the Christian People's Party was completely silent. My question is then: Did the Christian People's Party have no opinion about this in September, or had they received the oral basket from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e801	I'm pleased with this question. I'm happy for the bet that this government is doing. It is a continuation of what the Bondevik II administration did in connection with two gas messages that the previous staging was treated. If we'd had a mouth basket? No, we didn't, in no way. We were on the Sem Declaration, and we are also on our party program, which says black on white that we want petroleum-free zones in the Western Sea and in the Lofoten. So there should be no doubt about the Christian People's Party's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e809	I share with the representative Holten Hemdal's criticism of the purchase at Huk. The use of taxpayers’ money is hair-removing, and it also undermines the rule of action by providing additional appropriations in the year’s budget instead of next year’s budget. But I don't fully understand the logic of the position of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the case of the Hardanger Range. The three parties were the proponents for the sale of the Bolärna, where the Allemmannsrecht was guaranteed independently of the buyer, according to the previous government. But now they want Hardangervidda to be bought for approx. four times the annual appropriations for such purchases under the Bondevik II Government. These are areas where the environment and natural areas are actually protected by law because they are located in a national park. The only one then had bought for approx. 120 million. kr, if the old government parties had been given their will, are the hunting and fishing rights. Then my question is, what's the big difference between the East Poles and Hardangervida, because the stock could well be sold, while the Hardangervida is absolutely to be bought?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e818	On this issue, it is the way that the departed government bought 29 areas that the military would no longer use to facilitate them for the public. We used approx. Twenty-five million. NOK on this purchase in ours. What's so unique about Hardangervida in relation to the East Banks is that this is a property of a size that rarely comes up for sale. Taking this roof for future generations means my party and the other two former government parties, Left and Right, that the current government should do, instead of spending $30 million. SEK at 63 metres of shoreline.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e825	I would first like to say that I am pleased with the relative consensus that has prevailed in the committee in the examination of the budget, and not least for the signals sent by the Christian People's Party. Then I think about the interpellation debate that was about the energy balance in Norway a little while ago. We have recently recorded that there is an increasing debate about a new wide-ranging civil cooperation in Norway. Not least Erna Solberg has given such signals. I want to challenge the Christian People's Party on how they will deal with such cooperation, where the largest party seems to be the Progress Party, a party that does not accept the existence of anthropogenic climate change, a party that will cut so much in the budget that there is hardly a budget left, and a party that believes that escaped farming salmon is just an enrichment for the biodiversity of our rivers. I want to challenge the Christian People's Party on this. How do they relate to such a partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e834	As for the interpellation that Børge Burnde had, and the signals that were given there, there are signals that Einar Steensnæs and the former oil and energy minister presented in relation to the policy that the Christian People's Party once stood for, and stands for per. today. In terms of broader civil cooperation, my former government colleague, Børge Brende and Right, was out there with this in a clear way last week. Here there are so many differences for both the Right Party, the Christian Party and I will also believe the Left that within this area there is a long way left. I think maybe there'll never be close cooperation. I will promise myself that I will not predict the future entirely in cash, but per. I would like to say today that there must be a lot of water before there can be binding cooperation between these parties in the area we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e841	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e844	I'm going to start by saying that as far as the future of the Christian People's Party is concerned, it's good to hear that almost never sees government cooperation with the Advance Party. It promises good for the future. There are many approaches to environmental policy, and I am extremely pleased that through this budget and through the government statement we have chosen the great approach. By developing CO2 cleaning technologies and value chains, we can make an effort that will mean something in a global context. At the same time, this can be a new industry in Norway. GSM technology went from us. This could be our new chance. The work done on Kårstø has great expectations for the Senterpartie. I also want to add that as one of the world's largest exporters of hydrocarbons, Norway has a special responsibility to be involved and make this energy source sustainable. Much remains to be done on the environmental side of this country. Therefore, the environmental budget has been strengthened in relation to the set-up that Bondevik II had. The fact that the parties that provided the original budget seem to be a little bit too small, and then add up a little bit more, is going to be on their own account. At least it tells me something about what they think about their own priorities. There has been little attention to the protection of cultural memory in the autumn, despite the fact that this budget represents one of the most significant and positive promises being made, or the continuation of the good work of the previous government on this front. One of the most significant ambitions set out in both the budget and the government statement is the objective of a new and anti-conflict policy on protection and predatory policies. It is with great sorrow that I have recorded an increasing conflict between the centre and the periphery associated with these areas. In several cases, it appears that key actors have been firing around these conflicts rather than dampening them. This shall now be amended. Through interaction with local forces on a broad front, voluntary protection, review of predatory policies and active engagement on e.g. forest centres and national parks are our clear ambition to build bridges between these contradictions. This will be one of the Central Party's main environmental policy priorities over the next four years. As soon as I have the opportunity, I will also mention the Gyro and calcium problems. I have, without going too far, a certain perception that there is a work that is going to be prioritised in the time that is coming. On the energy front, this country has several major challenges, and I will point to three key issues. First, national and public ownership of our hydropower resources: in relation to the previous government and the Progress Party, which wanted the fastest possible sale of Norwegian hydropower, we have the exact opposite starting point. Our aim is that public Norway should retain and preferably increase its ownership of Norwegian production. We have succeeded at the moment that we have established a robust system that effectively ensures that not a single Norwegian kilowatt hydropower is on foreign hands. This eternal natural resource and the value creation it represents belong to the Norwegian people, and so on. Second, the power balance: as you know, it represents a major challenge. We've let the market rule to the extent that we're about to starve over the bread drawer, to use a good tranny expression. All other countries make use of their national space for action to bring about a balance of forces. This action must also take place in Norway. Through many measures, the power balance should tip the other way. The centre party believes it is a paradox that the energy nation Norway imports electricity and does not export. Thirdly, much of this nation is built on natural resources, especially hydropower. The further processing of this represents many jobs. It represents valuable export income, great value creation and not least another factor in an increasingly oil-dominated economy. It's important. We therefore need an industrial power regime that provides Norwegian industry with electricity at a price that ensures continued investment and investment in Norway. It is unacceptable for the majority to phase out the industry to sort out the energy balance. Not least in Central Norway, this is a real and immediate challenge. In all these areas, rapid action is needed to clean up what has been a lack of planning and a lack of will from past times. There is a need for firm political leadership, and it is a leadership I am sure that this government, and not least the Council of State, represents. Much indicates that the design of oil policy in the north will be one of our most important issues next year. I would warn against pre-empting the realities prior to the management plan. I also want to warn against putting environmental and business interests up against each other to the extent that we now experience. If development in the north does not take place at environmental premise, all further development is at risk, in our opinion. But the concrete conclusions we have to wait to draw to the facts are on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e881	It was said here that it is a paradox that we, the energy nation of Norway, must import power. The party of progress is thus the heart's agreement with the Central Party in this area. In my view, the Energy Commissioner of the Central Party in the Committee, Ola Borten Moe, should express his view on a very important energy policy issue that must be very important for the Central Party to get a clarification on, and on the relationship to small and small-scale power stations. Is it the case that Ola Borten Moe believes that small-scale power plants should be included in any future mandatory electrical certification system, which would be of crucial importance if that representative were to be implemented on the platform? But that was, as I could see, not one word about what Ola Borten Moe and the Center will do to increase power production in Norway. Here, small power is an important strategy. There are many stakeholders sitting around the country and the beach waiting for a clarification of this from the Center Party. We should be able to get an answer to that from the Central Party spokesman here on the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e888	We had a broad debate recently in the United Kingdom on the balance of power in Norway and on various measures that needed to be taken to get it sorted out. There was an increase in production and, not least, there was an offensive investment in alternative energy sources and consumption reduction. In terms of small power, it's probably a big part of the solution, but I don't think it represents the whole solution. The party of progress should feel confident that this government will facilitate a continued offensive effort on small-scale power. Whether or not it is going to be under the green certification scheme, you'll have to wait and see. There we await - as you do - the government's green certificate proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e895	I will also stay at small power plants, because it is undeniably so that small power plants can provide much and new environmentally friendly energy. It can become an important district industry, provide loved ones with jobs and income for landowners in the districts. Then my question to the representative Borten Moe is: why is it so important for the new government – it is even mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration – to have municipal plans to do this type of development? I would say that is the opposite of offensive district policy. It's an anti-politics, and that's not what stimulates development. The centre party was in the last period – together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – a champion to make it easier to expand such types of power plants. We've simplified where the new government is now going to red tape. I wonder if the representative Mr. Borten Moe agrees with the Right that the Soria Moria statement at this point is actually a solid retreat for those who want to build small power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e905	I'm going to start by saying that the fact that I was sitting on the Prime Minister's chair when I was waiting for the line change was probably an expression of a practical approach to how to get on the platform quickly and efficiently – nothing but that. Then I would like to say that neither under the Right, nor under the previous government, was it such that a green regime for small power plants was established. It wasn't like setting up an offensive regime to put this in place. So no matter what this government can or can't do, it won't be a step backwards from what's been up to now. But our clear position, both in the Central Party and in the Government, is to be able to put in place the most renewable energy, the most renewable environmentally friendly energy possible. Then it's like we're going to sit down in this room, and we in the committee, and have a wide-ranging debate on how this can best happen. Just as little here as otherwise, we're going to pre-shoot the result before the matter is on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e912	The President saw it as no attempt at a coup d'état. But it may be a good thing that we maintain the distinction between the legislative and the executive. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e915	Forest protection is important for outdoor life and to ensure biodiversity. As part of the process of examining the State of the State of the Environment, Stortinget has argued that voluntary forest protection should be an important strategy for increasing forest protection in Norway. The centre party has long wanted to be a protective break and addressed it at the latest in the budget debate last year. The Soria Moria Declaration states: «The government will increase the protection of the coniferous forests in order to preserve biodiversity.» In the post, Borten Moe thought of himself as a bridge builder. He was to be a bridge builder, among others. in protective matters. My question will then be: has the Centre now realised that protection is important to ensure biodiversity, or has the Centre bridge builder just lost a case in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e927	There is no doubt that protection is an important part of preserving biodiversity in Norway. Nor is there any doubt that protection will be an important part of Norwegian environmental policy in the future. However, it is also important to underline the way in which this protection is to be implemented. There's my sincere opinion that the previous government was not as lucky with the way they carried out all their processes, and that it could be useful to think about it in this area, and that one could have a different approach where you play more with local forces. Experience so far from the times it has been done is extremely positive. I believe the Government and the Storting have everything to gain from the local ownership of the protection that is being implemented, and that this represents something positive in terms of the development of jobs and industrial development – not a state acquisition of property, although it has struck me that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party seem to be very happy lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e934	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e937	This government will make Norway a leading country in environmental policy, both nationally and internationally. We have had this role before, and we are far ahead in a number of areas. Other areas have been neglected, and now we need a bet on a wide front. We would like, among other things: have an offensive environmental policy, focusing on sectoral action plans. We want a comprehensive review of the tax and tax system with a view to changes that promote environmentally friendly behaviour. We will focus on the environmental dimension of aid policy to promote the environment and health of countries in the south and east, and to ensure global environmental benefits. The draft budget we are discussing here today is one step in that direction. The Government is increasing the budget of the Ministry of the Environment by 29 million. NOK and increase the purchase of open air areas by 30 million. kr in addition to the proposal of the Government of Bondevik II. A large proportion of the increase of 29 million. kr shall be used for cleaning and monitoring of environmental pollutants. We are strengthening efforts to combat the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. Support for local environmental protection is also strengthened. In many other areas, the Government is continuing its efforts within the budget proposals of the previous government. I am pleased that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has joined the draft budget, and so strongly emphasises the environmental ambitions of the majority of the population. In essential areas, we are beginning to follow up the Soria Moria declaration. We will intensify efforts to secure open-air areas for the public. That is why we have increased the commitment mandate by 30 million. kr. This enables us to purchase attractive open-air and natural areas and to ensure the general right of use of properties that end up in the use of the Defence and Coastal Works. We also reintroduce the system of legal assistance to municipalities in the field of land-banding and coastal zone problems. The government prioritises work to preserve natural areas and biodiversity. The previous government's proposal to invest in forest protection is being continued. We are also taking forward the commitment to preventive and conflict-reducing predatory measures. The increased appropriations for the control of the Gyro salmon parasite shall ensure, in particular, the processing of the tissues. The Committee stresses our specific responsibility for the conservation of wild reindeer populations. The government is conscious of this responsibility. We will carefully consider the recommendations of the ‘Villrein and Somfunn’ report, based on the investigations carried out by the Directorate for Nature Management. The Bondevik government proposed a strengthening of the cultural memory budget as part of the follow-up to the biggest news Life with cultural memories. The proposals contained in the communication were largely endorsed by an overall committee. In addition, the Stortinget in its own decision asked the government to increase the fund capital of the Norwegian cultural memory fund to DKK 1.4 billion in the current ageing period. The government is behind the proposals in the big message, and proposes this initiative maintained. Old environmental sins haunt us. Cleaning and monitoring of environmental pollutants is a maximum required task. The government significantly increases the appropriations in relation to the Bondevik government. We would like, among other things: start up the work of cleaning up contaminated soils in kindergartens and school gardens and playgrounds. At the same time, we are strengthening efforts to monitor and stop emissions of new pollutants, which will otherwise have to be cleaned up by future generations. I want to present my own biggest message on chemical use and environmental toxicities. We also strengthen the allocation of voluntary environmental protection organisations, conscious of the valuable work they are doing to maintain and strengthen people's environmental interests. In the Soria-Moria Declaration, the Government says: ‘Our vision is that we can leave to the next generation something more valuable than what we took over’. This applies to all aspects of society, and not least to environmental resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e973	There could be reason to ask questions both about Gyro bet, or lack of such, and the government's somewhat unexplained relationship to the wolf, but I shall not do so. I think it's important to clarify what's going on in North Norway now. Is it a management plan for the Barents Sea we are dealing with, or is it a protection plan for the Barents Sea, as the Barents Sea Council itself called it, or is it an industrial plan, as the Tore Nordtun representative calls it? It can't be all at once, so I want a clarification from the Council of State on what really comes to treatment in the Government. Is there reason for optimism in North Norway, or are we going to get what I fear, namely a protective plan from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e980	There is every reason for optimism in North Norway and, in particular, optimism that we should pursue a forward-looking policy, which also takes the necessary environmental considerations into account. The government has said that we should conclude the 19th concession round as intended, but we have also said that it is when the overall management plan is in place that we must decide which areas, if any, should be opened and in which areas there should be no petroleum activity. This is to be determined by the Stortinget, but the Government will ensure that the necessary coordination between the overall Barents Sea Management Plan and the allocation of 19th round blocks will be coordinated when submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e987	The Minister for the Environment had an offensive attitude to the climate challenges when she was in Montreal during the climate negotiations that were there. The Minister for the Environment has also stated in various interviews that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions should now also be reduced. By the evening post of 29 November this year, the Council of State guarantees Bjørnøy improvement. It says: ‘Helen Bjørnøy guarantees that Norwegian environmental figures will look different at the next five-year check.’ In addition, it says: ‘This confirms that previous governments have not taken Norway’s climate challenges seriously.’ And on the other hand, ‘Yes. There shall be no doubt whatsoever that this government will do what is possible to meet our international climate obligations.» I wonder if the Minister for the Environment can explain to Stortinget what measures she has in mind in terms of reducing Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the years to come. How much does the Council of State want them to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1007	I am pleased that the debate has shown so far that there is a cross-political consensus that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is absolutely necessary. We have said that we must meet our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, and a significant part of the commitments must be made through national measures. We started work on sectorial climate action plans and sectoral targets. In addition, much work is started on renewable energy sources and energy saving, and in the transport sector, the Government will also make significant efforts on biofuels. The CO2 management at Kårstø is also a joint. In addition, we are working on the long-term work through the work of the Low Emissions Committee, where a generation target for the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is to be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1016	‘We have moved on a step further, even though the step was not so big,’ we could read in the evening post yesterday about the outcome of the negotiations in Montreal. The climate problem is the biggest environmental challenge we face, although there has been a small discussion about this in this debate. But at least there must be an offensive climate policy. It must be carried internationally, and it must also be carried nationally. Therefore, I would like to ask the State Council to guarantee that CO2 management is required at any new concession both on the Tent Goods and on Mongstad, and that the concessions should not only be based on CO2 management, but should be CO2 management. The Council of State said in previous answers to the representative Burnde that Kårstø should have CO2 management, but I am therefore asking if this also applies to the concessions for Tent Goods and Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1034	I'm glad we're getting more attention around the climate problem. There is no doubt, as the representative of the Christian People's Party just said, that this is one of the biggest problems of the future. The CO2 management requirement has been said to apply to Kårstø, but it is also clear that in the case of future gas power plants, it would not be natural for this government to think that it would be established without CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1045	After the climate negotiations in Montreal, it is clear that it will be difficult to bring the Kyoto process forward, and not least to get more countries into binding agreements. Developing countries reserve and show that the industrialised countries responsible for the main weight of emissions do not do the job at home. SV has been clear that at least 50 pst. the Kyoto obligations shall be taken nationally. The Soria Moria Declaration states that ‘significant parts’ are to be taken nationally. Can the Minister for the Environment clearly confirm that ‘significant parts’ mean more than 50 pst. and that the SV's environmental ambition is not abandoned in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1052	What is clear is that this government sees the need to take a completely new approach to national climate policy that will lead to greater reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway than we have seen so far. I don't want to figure out what's in ‘significant parts’. But we have already announced and are already developing action plans with sectoral objectives. There must be a lot of work to do in the time that comes, precisely to meet our commitments, and to take a significant part of our Kyoto commitments nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1059	There has been a great commitment to the climate issue in today's debate. There is no lack of good wishes for action, as the Council of State has also stated. At the same time, industry fears that many special Norwegian restrictions and taxes on CO2 emissions will be imposed, thereby damaging the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. As a result, we may experience an increased relocation of industry, especially to countries outside the quota system. The father is then that, for the best, Norwegian industry is moved without any environmental effects. On the contrary, if the industry is located in China, which does not have the same restrictions as in Norway, it could be less likely to be harmful to the environment. Can the State Council assure the Storting that there will be no special Norwegian regulation that destroys the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and that, in order to limit CO2 emissions, there will be as much commitment as possible to the EU's quota system?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1072	I would like to confirm that the final design of the allowance system for the 2008-2012 period, among others. must be seen in the light of how the connection to the EU ETS is established. The government is in dialogue with the EU Commission to ensure a practical link between the two allowances systems, but it is not yet clear what it will be like. We work closely with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1079	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1082	Large parts of the world look to the north areas where Norway has great interests to care for. Therefore, the Government has said that they see the northern regions as Norway’s main strategic field of activity in the coming years. The Soria Moria platform has laid the foundations for a good forward-looking policy that will lift the northern regions and a whole section of the country and will further develop value creation, employment and skills at a high level. We have great opportunities, but also challenges – not least with regard to the environment in relation to the petroleum activities in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. We can't afford to leave these resources untouched. Saying no to Norwegian petroleum activities in the northern regions is the same as leaving to the Russians to determine environmental development and pace in the north. It's a risk sport that I'd advise against. We're going to be there with our technology and standardize the continuation of oil and gas activities in the northern regions. In spring, the Government will present an action plan for the management of the northern regions. We are looking forward to this, not least in Northern Ireland. The companies have great interests in the Norwegian Sea outside of Lofoten and the Western Sea, what we call Nordland VI and VII. For the time being, Nordland VI has been put in jeopardy, but the action plan will hopefully give us a picture of the future petroleum activity here as well. Business is waiting in suspense. The strange thing was that the Right in the election campaign went high on the track and thought that with a red-green government, the activity in the northern regions would almost be stopped. False statements refute. Shown the choice result. Petroleum activities in the north will strengthen not only the economy of Russia and Norway but will also be a driving force for strengthening international economic cooperation in Northern Europe. We have several major challenges in terms of nutrition and development. It's about the future of the powerful industry when old power contracts expire, it's about the fall-back and who's going to own our hydropower resources in the future. The Storting has previously asked the Government to present its own case to the Stortinget to establish its own industrial power market. The Bondevik government said no. It refused, combined with a lack of other initiatives, would lead to a massive deflagration of Norwegian jobs, which we in the Workers' Party cannot accept. Fortunately, this government has good cooperation with industry. The government is now working on bombing this case, because the Soria Moria platform is clear: it needs to be investigated and established a separate industrial power market. In the case of a fall-back, it is a pleasure to track that also the Left and Christian People's Party will work for strong public ownership through the fall-back institute. The Government has decided that the Weaving Ways are to enter the supplementation of the Weaving Plan for Watercourses. Then it is very important that this watercourse again becomes a large salmon eel. Today it is infected by Gyrodactylus salaris. I'm glad the government has already put 1 million in the budget for next year. additional to the preparation of the control of Gyroen and that the control of the parasite can start too fully in 2007. At the same time, the work on Soria Moria contributed to the region being allocated food resources. This will probably not replace the incomes generated by the municipalities in the development of power, but it is even more important to get eleven clean for Gyro, so that income from fishing and tourism can become a nutrient path. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of the follow-up of the plan for liming, which is with the Directorate for Nature Management. I look forward to the Government coming back to Stortinget with an overview of the measures that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1110	I'm going to spend some time talking about the things that we actually agree on in the committee. We are among others agree on the wild reindeer centres and their impact on the biodiversity of mountain regions. Of course, the wild train will be in the center, but I think it will also matter to other things. The protection of cultural memories and the support to private owners in today's budget, I am very pleased with – it is important that protection takes place in dialogue with the owners. As far as ship protection is concerned, the Soria Moria Declaration is very ambitious. The promises have not been fully met, but I believe there is reason for optimism and look forward very much to the national ship protection plan as announced will come. The state’s mapping works have said that they should prioritise the completion of charts for the whole coast, including for North Norway, as from 2007. This is also about security. The state councils present today are not responsible for oil protection, but I could imagine that they took the floor later today to tell you a little about what they want to do in relation to oil protection in Norway, which is an important prerequisite for oil operations in the north, but which is important in any case. So for liming. Despite the fact that today's government parties and the Advance Party have agreed that it is appropriate to grant up to 90 million to 100 million. So the government has not found the purpose worthy of one ear more than that granted by the government of Bondevik. So we're going to end up with an allocation that will dramatically reduce the lime. Not only will the national projects referred to by Bjørnøy in its letter to the Committee on 22 November disappear – the cut will not least affect the smaller projects, where local forces, fishermen and landowners, have borne lime, measured water quality and driven active fish cultivation for many years. Thanks are a rough amputation. I see this, and certainly many of those who have participated in this work, as incomprehensible. One of the major projects considered by the Ministry of the Environment is the liming of Mandalselva, the world's largest liming project with an annual budget of up to 10 million. kr. If the state ceases to engage in this project, the project will be a mere story, and 50 million. kr may be lost. Similarly, at the request of the Government, the Stortinget has previously adopted an action plan to combat Gyroen. This plan requires an annual allocation of 30 million. kr. The government and the majority in this room add up to a grant just above half of it. When you see this in connection with the new signals that come about a highly cost-intensive investment in aluminium, this becomes incomprehensible. An example I'll give in relation to that, is that Gyro control in the Steinkärvastrestret alone will cost almost 20 million. kr., i.e. the full appropriation for 2006. The other batches are willing to do without delay in the service of the wild game, rejecting the proposals of the Progress Party to evaluate the environmental benefit and the costs of the continuation and escalation of national salmon fjords. This proposal voted against all the others during the financial debate, despite the fact that both Tore Nordtun, who is the major fractional leader of the energy and environmental area, and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, the parliamentary leader of the Senterpartiet, in the election campaign welcomed such an evaluation. The farming industry is one of the most important, if not the most important, growth industries in Norway. Unlike many other industries, this activity cannot be moved out of the districts. This should be important for this government, which focuses on district policy. In any case, it should not be accepted that counties such as Rogaland and the South-Trande Team are protected over half their coast without evaluating the environmental benefits and costs of this policy. So, in conclusion, about forest protection. An increasingly large part of mainland Norway is protected. We have heard today that the protection increased by 50 pst. under the Bondevik Government. This represents 50 pst. Of the forest in Norway — not in itself deterrent, but I have noticed that the majority consistently call this forest, the oldest forest, old forest. In the forestry language, this is called harvestable forest or productive forest, and of this category forest is 20 pst. protected. Then I'm starting to get skeptical. And on this basis, we are promoting proposals to put in place a protective break to look at the consequences for the Norwegian timber industry, forestry industry and process industry. If these industries disappear from Norway, we will have only old forests in 60 years' time, with the negative consequences it will have for both jobs in the districts and for biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1131	In some areas, broad consensus has been reached through the budgetary process. I'm glad. But there are also major differences in principle and ideology in the budget. I want to start by mentioning some of the small, but nevertheless important areas of which there is agreement, among other things. to maintain the reefs of the mountains and to implement several measures there. I am also pleased that we agree to discharge our responsibility for the wilderness. I am pleased that we point out that two national competence centres for wild rain should be established, at Møsvatn in Telemark and at Dovre, respectively. Such centres, I think, will mean a lot to management, knowledge dissemination and interest. But perhaps most importantly, the possible establishment in the first phase is a positive stimulus for the local area and the local population. This is not irrelevant in this context. Therefore, I hope that we can do concrete actions as soon as possible, so that the centre is established. Another area where a broad majority has been reached through the budgetary process is the need to intervene in order to balance the price of electricity transport. We see that the cost of transporting electricity is variable, at our discretion for variable. We are therefore very pleased that the government has now added 30 million. kr for the balancing of transmission tariffs. The broad consensus has now been reached despite the wish of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to remove this from the budget both for 2005 and now for 2006. But now there is a consensus that we must contribute from the common fund to the alignment of transmission tariffs, and I am pleased about that. As I said, we are far from agreeing in all areas. The electricity transmission system is one of the most important infrastructures in society. Nearly all devices in society depend on a secure electricity supply. Small disconnects hit hard and often dramatically, while causing great social losses. In recent times, we have received signals from the industry that the framework conditions give a negative development in terms of safety. In the past, the investment rate was about 40 years. Now we get information that might indicate that the investment rate is up to 120 years in many places. If this results in correctness, this – and I would like to emphasise it – is a very serious situation. But at the same time, we take this situation seriously. That's why we also want a review of the network system, which is a broad majority for in this room, with the exception of the Right. It seems strange to me that the right as the only party does not want a new review of the network system. They indicate that it was done a few years ago. I think, on the other hand, it is wise to listen to today's signals and take them seriously. We need to look at the situation with new eyes and ensure investment, better security and more security, while perhaps we can manage to achieve a better balancing of costs as well. I'm sorry that the Right is not included, as I said, but challenges them at the same time to participate in a system review. Government batches will underline that it is not sufficient to assess the system only. We have therefore established that the Energy Act should be evaluated. In the view of the Workers' Party, we must build up a motivation for new investments and an ownership structure that best caters for social interests. In that perspective, I am convinced that it is public ownership that best caters to the interests and needs of society. One important reason for me is that the private value management has had and has a different goal than the public. For this reason, many have been concerned that the previous government with the Right in the head made a political run for more outsourcing and more privatisation. I am not surprised that they maintain this idea in the budget, but fortunately this contrasts with the current majority, and we can well conclude that in this area too, the election result was a successful outcome. Finally, I just want to make sure that the Workers' Party's promises of a gas pipeline to Grenland are firm. To the Advance Party and Solvik-Olsen, I must say that when they try to doubt the Government's willingness to use the gas, it must seem to have been linked to the fact that they must have avoided reading where this is mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. The budget adopted today does not solve all the challenges and may not address all the challenges either. But it's a budget in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1146	Few today contest the potential of the northern regions and the possibility of Norway setting an energy policy agenda. The right is now very concerned that we need to use this opportunity actively to build and strengthen the nutrient base in North Norway and to focus on knowledge development and research related to activity in the north. It is with some amazement that I have read the Minister for the Environment's statements on the North Norwegian oil and gas debate, in which she introduces the new term 'petro-holics'. I understand it so that by this she means men with only one thought in their heads: building up petroleum activity, costing what it will cost. Such characteristics of the debate in the north hang, to use a popular expression, not in touch. I'm going to give Bjørnøy the right idea that there is a clear overweight of men who are engaged in the industry and the debate, but she is thoroughly mistaken when she refers to the debate as one-sided on the premises of the oil industry. The Minister for the Environment has an important role to play in shaping future petroleum activities in the north. The more important it is then that she finds an opportunity to meet Nordic industries and politicians and listen to the message from there to correct her misconceptions. Right wants a modern North Norway that can now be part of the development of the petroleum industry in our neighbourhood. When the oil age finally stands at the door in the north, the continent will not find itself being made into a national environmental symbol, as several environmental organisations are now trying to achieve. Developments in North-West Russia and the possible participation of Norwegian companies in the Shtokman field suggest that Norway facilitates the escalation of petroleum activities on our side in the Barents Sea. It could create a positive ‘drive’ related to technology development and further environmental prevention measures. The ambition must be that the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea should be dense and world-leading on the environment and safety. Increased activity will also have the effect of improving preparedness. The partnership with the Russians must be further developed. In that case, the activity on the Norwegian side must match the activities of the Russians, in order to achieve even more extensive and mutual cooperation across borders in the north. Anyone who has participated in the North Norwegian oil arena knows that it is unthinkable to discuss the exploration and development of oil and gas findings without doing so in an environmentally sound manner. I do not recognize myself in the Minister for the Environment's description of a unilateral oil angle. Why should we, who live in the part of the country, of all, gamble with the environment or the fishing resources, which are the backbone of much of coastal employment? My experience is that the North Norwegian petroleum debate is a balanced debate, in which the focus is on fisheries and the environment, where we are very conscious of the climate challenges we face, where we are concerned with development solutions that facilitate interaction between fisheries and petroleum activity, and last but not least, Nordic politicians are very concerned with higher preparedness and access to necessary equipment if the accident should be out. Although today’s Norwegian activity is modest, Russians’ extensive shipping operations with oil supply from the north are a major challenge for our coastal preparedness. When the NHO makes the opportunities in the northern regions the main theme of its 2006 Annual Conference, ‘Occupation Nord’, it is fantastic to see Northern Norwegian eyes and a confirmation that we in the north are almost honey pot. Although the oil and gas perspective is at the bottom, increased value creation is also based on unique natural qualities and the fisheries industry has devoted a wide range of resources to the programme. From the right, we are now looking for the balance point that can ensure maximum counting within several important industries at the same time, and that will make it attractive to live in the north. I note that some environmental organisations have a fundamentalist view of oil and gas activities outside the northernmost part of the country. In the right we distance ourselves from this approach, and I will specifically challenge the Minister for the Environment on what she thinks about that particular issue. Here in the country we can look back on a successful history of the oil industry in the south, and we have gradually considerable experience also from drilling in the northern waters. It would then be interesting to hear what a collective government believes that there are now completely different demands from the environmental team for new activities in the north than in the south. The Minister of Oil and Energy has been reasonably clear in his speech, in which the Minister of the Environment and the Government Declaration make reservations. I hear that the representative, Torny Pedersen, is saying hesitantly, but I also hear that SV promises to fight when the management plan is being dealt with in the spring. Continuity is important in order to ensure greater nutritional effects and the building of skills in the north. The Barents Sea Management Plan can give us this. I hope for a more nuanced debate than the one we've seen from the environmental team in recent years. Here, the Minister for the Environment must take responsibility for the fact that emotions do not take over, but that future North petroleum policy is based on facts and experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1170	The North has gone from being a security policy marching area during the Cold War to becoming an energy policy force center. The challenges in the north are how to deal with some of the greatest industrial opportunities and challenges facing us as a nation. The Government Declaration states that we will maintain the exploration activity for oil and gas and that the oil industry must have access to interesting exploration sites. Furthermore, it is established that the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea is to be the world's foremost in relation to oil protection and environmental monitoring. We're going to have a business development with a sustainable perspective. We're going to have a petroleum industry with a green profile. The Government has taken the view that all activities in these areas should take place within sustainable frameworks that maintain biodiversity and ensure untouched areas for future generations. We want oil and fish in good neighborhoods. In this context, it is important to stress that the activity is to be based on the objective of zero emissions at sea. Our environmental standard should be so good that it becomes a model for similar expansions elsewhere. The government sees the northern areas as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. While the Snow White expansion may have come a little bit of a hurry, we can now plan long-term and strategically and position ourselves for the projects that are coming in the years to come, thus ensuring the nation's high tax revenues for many years. In the case of future petroleum activities, many of us imagine a significant increase in research, investigation and innovation activities. Keywords here are sustainability, exploration, extraction and operation, environmental monitoring and preparedness, and most importantly, workplaces. But let's agree that it's a little bit of a way to go before we're there, and it should be. There is a consensus in the Stortinget that a comprehensive management plan for the north petroleum activity should form the basis for which areas to open and in which such activities should not take place – a management plan in which a diversity of interests is seen in the context. Industry has recognised that environmental protection is a prerequisite for exploitation. This means that every serious actor must plan from day to day from an environmental perspective. By 2009 all CO2 emissions to air from the Kårstø installation are to be removed and it shall be possible to use CO2 as pressure support for fields in the North Sea. Government parties are very pleased that, through economic instruments and investment in new technologies, new gas power concessions are now being launched on the basis of CO2 clean-up. In addition, we need to keep up the pressure on research on renewable energy sources. The government has increased the funding for the research chapter by 15 million. kr, which will be used to strengthen the RENERGI and Climit research programmes. The working party is pleased that the Government has increased the budget chapter for environmentally friendly gas technology by 20 million. kr in addition to the proposed Bondevik Government, and that the increase is earmarked for the launch of CO2 management and CO2 value chain measures. Within our international climate commitments, a greater part of the natural gas extracted on a Norwegian base must be used domestically for industrial, energy and transport purposes. It is our goal that Norway will be world leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. Finally, I want to get into the scope of the petroleum cargo that goes from Murmansk, along our coast and further south. Oil protection in the north is a chapter that we need to pay great attention to. We know that we carry tons of oil along our coast, and the monitoring centre in Vardø, to be put into operation in 2007, is important in relation to that work. I would also like to believe that a major debate is being launched on the role of the Coast Guard, on oil protection preparedness and the responsibility for operational capacity. The practice Barents Rescue gave us some answers, but it also left a lot of questions – questions that have to find their solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12.ana.ud2259e1211	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
