ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e45	From His Royal Highness The Crown Prince's Regent, the President of the Storting has received the following message: «It is with great joy I announce that my sister Princess Märtha Louise and my brother-in-law Ari Behn on April 8, 2005 at 0820 have had a daughter. Her name is Leah Isadora Behn." This communication shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Congratulations. Representatives Karin Andersen, Thore A. Nistad, Trine Skei Grande, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Ola T. Loans, who have been licensed, have again taken their seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Finn Kristian Marthinen on leave from 11 April to 15 April to attend meetings of the Political Committee of the Western European Union in Helsinki, Riga and St. Petersburg from Rita Tveiden on leave from 11 April to 20 April to attend the conference of Norwegian and Chinese women entrepreneurs in Beijing from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Dagrun Eriksen from 11 April to 20 April and until further from the Socialist Group of the Left on sick leave for the representative Magnar Lund Bergo from 11 April until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Oddny Omdal For the Buskerud County: Mari Hagen and Unni Hennum Lie For the Hordaland County: Pål Barrefjord3. Oddny Omdal and Pål Berberfjord are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Dagrun Eriksen and Rita Tveiten respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e122	Oddny Omdal, Mari Hagen, Unni Hennum Lie and Pål Berberfjord are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e128	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e138	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e141	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose changes to the Biotechnology Act that open up preimplantation diagnostics and research on fertilised eggs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e146	The representative of Jørund Leknes will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e150	On behalf of the representatives of Heikki Holmås, Øystein Djupedal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to give residence to Iraqi refugees in Norway who received temporary residence without the right to family reunification in 2000 and 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e155	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e167	The presentation of the 2005 State Budget gave a comprehensive account of the state of mental health protection in both municipalities and specialist health services. In this statement I will complement the picture given in the budget. As Minister of Health, I receive many enquiries that indicate failure and lack of the service provision that has been prioritised through the Roadmap for Mental Health. Thus, the number of alerts and requests for failure to provide services and services takes place at a time when we are more than halfway into the escalation plan and where considerable resources have been allocated to strengthen the service provision. Through the Roadmap for Mental Health, Stortinget has set itself an ambitious goal: the plan should help people with mental disorders to master their own lives. The plan further outlines a set of concrete objectives and measures to be implemented over a 10-year period. Today’s reporting shows that the quantitative objectives of the plan have either been achieved or are within reach. However, the question I have asked myself during this winter is: Will the overall objective be achieved during the escalation period, given that all quantitative target sizes are realised? My preliminary answer is that I doubt it. The picture of the area of mental health is nuanced. A lot of good work is done both in municipalities and in health firms — there are many good examples of this, even though the bad examples are when the media searchlights. However, the challenge seems to be significant, not least in relation to the appearance of the service, often with a lack of trust and legitimacy. To change this situation, there are six relationships that will be central to me in the future. Firstly, the service depends on the allocation of resources through the escalation plan. Increased resources are important, but I'm equally sure that resource supply alone is not enough to solve the problems of the service. This is partly about giving sufficient priority to mental health and drug treatment compared to the rest of the service, and partly about how the total resources are used in psychiatry. In the 2005 management plan, I have clearly informed regional health businesses that the percentage growth in drug treatment and mental health protection is to be stronger than the growth in somatic care. It has only occurred in one of the seven years of the escalation period that appropriations for somatic medicine have increased little more than for mental health protection. This, in addition to being a reasonable priority, is also a contribution to bringing an end to the recurring discussion of claims of leakages in the case of psychiatry agents. This field shall also be given priority in the allocation of ordinary budgetary resources in the specialised health service. Secondly, good emergency psychiatric services are important. We experience many places that the emergency departments are overcrowded, and that patients are being discharged prematurely. This is an unworthy and unacceptable situation. I have therefore asked regional health companies to review the overall supply of emergency services with a view to resolving this situation. We also have a report from SINTEF that tells us that a large number of people should have a municipal offer instead of a daily stay in the specialist health service. This means that departments are almost blocked and are not able to work properly. At the same time, we have learned that where cooperation succeeds, the outpatient emergency team is set up and able to catch up before it becomes acute, the trend is also reversed, so that the pressure on the emergency departments is decreasing. We have good examples of DPS areas that have succeeded in this. The DPSs on Notodden, Tønsberg and Follo are such examples. Thirdly, I see it as crucial to succeed in improving the treatment of mentally ill people that the professionalism of the service is strengthened, and that the importance of management is emphasised. It is therefore important both to ensure the correct division of labour between levels and to focus more strongly on professional quality. There are currently too many variations in the quality of work in the DPS. A number of professional guidelines are therefore being finalised to support the professional content of the proceedings. Such standards must be well anchored in the clinical environments and subject to management requirements. The individual psychiatric settings have been left to themselves too much. Fourth, municipalities must give sufficient priority to this area, both in terms of resources and in terms of their professional skills, to fulfil their important role in the field of mental health for their citizens. I would like to stress that the municipal measures are absolutely fundamental also for people with mental disorders. I will therefore return to the next year's state budget with a possible change in the allocation of operating resources to the municipalities in the escalation plan. My fifth main message is that in a much better way than today, we need to interact with the different actors in the ministry. Single events show that failure is often due to a lack of interaction. Lack of use of individual plans is a key keyword. In the interests of patients, it is important that this right is followed up. In many cases, it is essential for the flow and overview of the treatment. Last but not least, it is important that the patient has one responsible named person to deal with. Sixthly, I would like to place great emphasis on strengthening the user perspective. This is about taking users and relatives seriously as active participants and partners. People with mental disorders should not just be passive recipients of services. The signals from user organisations are very strong in this respect. I think the big challenge for the service provider is to integrate this understanding into professional work. I have previously announced that the relatives' situation should be given increased focus. In concrete terms, I have followed up with cooperation in small and large numbers with the organisations representing the users. Of course, municipalities are particularly important in the field of mental health. It is a fundamental prerequisite for the Government to facilitate people with mental disabilities to live as fully and as normal a life as possible in their municipalities. This is about the right to live a decent life for all people. The conditions for this are proper housing, practical support and help in the home, a meaningful life through employment or organised work and a social community. There is a need to ensure that professional assistance is provided on short notice when needed. For the vast majority of people, an institution stay will be an episode in life to address acute phases. It is in the daily home situation that you have to provide for a decent and meaningful life. During the escalation period, an increased focus has been placed on municipalities. A total of 1,600 new annual works have been added and 3,400 housing commitments have been made up to and including 2004. Dwellings will be completed during 2006, as they take about two years from commitments to completion. ==References== 2000 dwellings have now been finally completed. Until 2005, municipalities have been allocated earmarked funds for a total of DKK 2.6 billion from the framework of the escalation plan. Annual government budgets report some reporting problems in the municipal sector arising from earmarked schemes, because the measures are significantly integrated into other municipal services. But the total growth in the number of annual works in municipalities is proportionate to the financial resources committed. Good offers are established in several municipalities. At the same time, we know that there is a big difference between municipalities. Many municipalities lack satisfactory services and are unable to provide the follow-up that each user needs. This leads to increased pressure on the specialist healthcare service, which must accept a large number of emergency facilities and facilities that could have been avoided, by judgement, through good and long-term follow-up from the service provider. My assessment is that if we do not succeed in building up the necessary measures in the municipalities, we will not succeed in the escalation plan as provided. The challenges of municipalities are different. I want to distribute 50 million in a short time. to the four largest cities in order to implement measures to address the specific major urban problems facing them. Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger have now developed proposals for projects and measures to improve the situation. They are also obliged to follow a new set of procedures that ensure that they are found and able to provide assistance to the most disadvantaged. These procedures have been developed by the Directorate in cooperation with the municipalities and user organisations. Satisfactory housing is a key to success. We have received many signals of increased housing needs in addition to the 3,400 nursing homes that had been included in the escalation plan. The housing requirement therefore needs to be reviewed for the remainder of the run-up period. The assessments carried out so far suggest that additional dwellings should be established. The 2005 State budget indicates that the first 3,400 dwellings form a necessary base for municipal rentals and that the need for housing in addition to this should be addressed through the ordinary means of housing policy. The government sees it as important that, through these schemes, as much as possible, they can become owners of their own housing. This is in line with the signals in St.meld. No 23 for 2003-2004 on housing policy. I consider it very important for the realization of the entire escalation plan that the government succeeds in facilitating the realization of an increased number of homes for people with mental disorders. The government will assess the economic impact on the framework of the Husbank and the escrow plan in the government budget for the coming years. As Stortinget is well known, last year I gave a strong signal that no closures of bed places would take place until the housing situation in the municipalities had been reviewed. The starting point was that the escalation plan was in place to reduce the number of hospitalisation sites to 1,400 by 2006, while the figure was already per year. 2003 was sunk to 481, according to the latest figures from SINTEF. After an overall assessment of the situation, I find it necessary to continue to maintain that the remaining hospital and daily places have to be maintained until further notice. What is the status of the specialist health service? The specialist health service shall assist when the municipal measures do not extend. The premise is that hospitals should specialize in their competences, and district psychiatric centres, DPS, should be built up and take care of the general psychiatric treatment services at a specialised level. At the heart of this is that the DPSs should be a partner for the municipal actions. Through St. Prp. No 63 for 1997-1998 capacity and activity targets were developed and adapted to these assumptions. A central instrument for the realisation of the escalation plan is earmarked grants. We are currently spending a total of about 11 billion kroner on mental health protection in the specialist health service, and 10 pst. this is granted as earmarked means from the escalating plan. SINTEF has recently issued two reports describing the level of achievement of the target and the situation of specialist healthcare in general. One report is a pleasant reading and takes into account the assessments of the quantitative objectives of the escalation plan after five years. SINTEF’s five-year report on the review of the achievement of the target shows, as I have previously pointed out, that most quantitative targets have been achieved or will be achieved over the remaining escalation period. The number of annual work has increased from 1999 to 2003 by 2,475. The target of 4500 more annual works is likely to be achieved by 2008. Included in this is the goal of more doctors and psychologists. The objective of 220 000 additional outpatient consultations during the planning period has already been achieved. The regional health business plans show that 2 215 more day-to-day DPS sites are planned. The target was 2,065 new daily places, so it's reached. In childhood and youth psychiatry, we are on the way to the goal of providing help for 5 pst. by the children and youth population. I emphasize that we're on our way, we're not in the goal. On a national basis, we had achieved 3.1pst in 2003. – a growth of 1,1 pst. from 1998. However, growth has slowed down in recent years among the worst-favoured regions. The second report from SINTEF is patient registration, which shows that we have a significant challenge in building up the right offers at the different levels. According to the report, a total of 40 should be. by day-care patients in hospitals and DPS had daily municipal services or lived in owner-occupied dwellings. What does this tell us? First of all, it tells us how to prioritise resources in the future and where to put them. The answers to these questions are neither more emergency facilities nor other daily places in hospitals. When it's assessed so that 40 pst. of all hospitalised patients in the specialist health service should receive an offer under the authority of the municipality, we need to build up more strongly the municipal measures and a specialist health service that can cooperate with the community health service. This is also the reason why I have asked in the order document for the regional health companies to set up an ambulance team from the DPS. We have to recognise that the report describes an unpleasant bottleneck problem, and that we will have to use resources in the cooperation zone between the municipalities and the specialist health service in the future. In addition to developing decentralised services, specialised hospital services are being developed. The aim is to establish an integrated and good response apparatus. There are today good international experiences that show that this is the right way to go. The WHO's recent Ministerial Declaration on Mental Health supports this. I was in England myself the last harvest and looked at the decentralization and the Englishmen's experience with ambulatory teams. Their experience with ambulatory teams seems to reduce the need for 24 hours’ accommodation and accommodation. But we don't have to go to England to experience this. I want to mention Vestfold in particular, which I visited a few weeks ago. This health business has taken the transition challenges seriously and has built up the decentralised services in line with the intentions of the escalation plan. The situation in Westfold up to a few years ago was also marked by overcoating in the emergency departments and the deficiencies that we are currently receiving through media coverage. However, once they have been able to convert resources by building up the DPS and building and establishing ambulance teams, the situation in the emergency departments is quite different. In fact, there is now overcapacity in the emergency department in Westfold, and the need for daily places is generally lower than in the past. This is the experience that all healthcare businesses in Norway now need to look at and take seriously. The acute psychiatry of Ullevål was the last harvest under strong pressure. In this context, I can mention that Ullevål Hospital has used experts from Denmark to carry out a professional audit of the hospital hospital's acute psychiatric hospital in particular. The Ullevål press release states that ‘Psychiatric division at Ullevål has a good economic and professional basis for providing psychiatric treatment at an international level’. My assessment is therefore that we need to improve significantly to build individually adapted interventions around the individual user, and then there are no more daily places in hospitals necessarily proper medicine. The main point is to develop a specialist health service that works out for and together with the municipal measures and helps people with mental disorders to live as normal a life outside the institution as possible. As several of the representatives know, last year the Council for Mental Health issued a report which included: were allegations of leakages from the psychiatry budgets. The Ministry has reviewed the claims made in the mental health report of the Council. The review shows that there is a need for improvements in the management and follow-up system for the escalation plan in relation to both the local and specialist health services. In the course of the next few weeks, work will turn out in a report. This work and report will be a central basis for the management and follow-up system that the Ministry will establish during the final period of the escalation plan – to ensure that the objectives set are met. The main conclusion shows that further work is needed on measures to strengthen reporting systems in relation to both municipalities and health enterprises. The review also shows that the leakage claims in relation to the individual cases addressed by the Verdig Liv report cannot be confirmed. In addition, Sintef concludes in a separate report that there is generally no holding of claims that psychiatry drugs are being misused or are going to recover deficits in general in health enterprises. However, in order to improve the systems, all reporting procedures in 2005 should be reviewed. The Ministry has also found it appropriate to provide guidance to regional health establishments on the keeping of earmarked funds in the accounts, so that there is no room for bookkeeping that bottle up the mental health protection of resources. I would also like to inform you that the Department's own review of the work on the escalation plan is summed up in a separate report. The report will be available prior to the presentation of the revised national budget. As we all know, the somatic has strong growth forces in it. The introduction of input-driven funding in 1997 has led to greater efficiency in hospitals and more treated patients. However, at the same time, this makes it important to ensure the prioritisation of patient dumps that are not covered by the ISF scheme. We see that the expenditure growth in the period 1999–2003 was 17.4 p.m. in somatic cases, while the corresponding mental health protection figures were 12.6 pst. However, the difference in growth between somatic and mental health protection has narrowed slightly since health businesses took over. In my opinion, however, the priority is not sufficient. Therefore, it has been a key point for me to assume that people with mental disorders should also be given priority within the normal budgetary framework. Therefore, health enterprises are instructed in the 2005 booking document to make such a resource allocation. Psychiatric health protection and drug treatment are to grow more strongly in 2005 than in somatic practices. So some words about children and young people. Investing in actions that can contribute to good mental health for children and young people is an investment in the future. As part of this investment, the Government presented in 2003 a strategy plan for the mental health of children and young people. The Strategy Plan includes strategies and 100 concrete actions falling under the responsibility of seven departments. The title ‘Together on mental health’ expresses an overall political view in order to improve the mental health of children and young people. The 100 interventions are organised as general actions aimed at children and young people, specific actions aimed at children and young people at risk, and at children and young people with mental health problems. The latest waiting list figures for children and adolescents show that the number of people waiting has increased, but most importantly, waiting times have decreased from 94 days two years ago to now 71. However, there is still too long to wait. For this reason, the Government Strategy Plan for Children and Young People has set a target of reducing the waiting time for an assessment interview to 10 days during the escalation period. However, I would like briefly to mention that the annual reports from both municipalities and businesses show that children and young people are a priority. Local authorities are now using an average of about 10 %. 20 pst. by means of grants to children and young people, as provided for. Enterprises may, on their side, indicate that the number of children receiving assistance in one year has increased by 60 pst. from 1998 to 2003. It's good results on the one hand, but it doesn't necessarily mean that the targets are met. So what are the key challenges ahead? We see that there is a picture in the process of depicting all the quantitative objectives of the escalation plan, but we do not seem to succeed in creating the necessary confidence in the service of the population in general. Based on the messages I receive from users, relatives and professionals, it seems to me that the main challenge in the future is to strengthen the quality of the subjects, cooperation between the 1st and 2nd line services and – not least – the relationship of services to users and relatives. A common denominator is the need for a change in attitudes and treatment culture. By doing so, I believe that the service needs to be better able to use documented knowledge. Treatment providers must also take a critical view of their own expert role in relation to the interaction with users, relatives and other partners. Surprisingly, there seems to be a consensus in the professional community on the way and content of treatment. The service seems, in my opinion, to be characterised by a ambiguity in the attitude to measurement and documentation requirements, and therefore in relation to the benefits and effects of the different treatment methods. There are also major challenges associated with the organisation and prioritisation of the service. This is evident in what I have said about the visible problems of the 'bottlenecks' in the service apparatus, overfilling emergency departments and lack of municipal services. Resources are needed to build a DPS to a good professional standard. But I can't fail to point out that a lot of the challenges I've pointed out are not just about the lack of resources, but about the ability and not least the willingness to bet on the decentralised services. The last of the major challenges I'm going to mention here requires daring resources. It is a major need to establish adequate measures in municipalities, especially – as I said – in the area of housing and home-based support. So, what strategic approach does the Government take? In the short term, the Government of the State budget for 2005 has launched a series of measures to ensure proper development. The long-term work on mental health needs to be based on the problems we are now seeing. The Ministry will therefore make it clear that the objective is to move forward to 2008 and challenge key actors to take greater co-responsibility. For municipalities, I will consider an appropriate operationalisation to be able to differentiate current actions according to the 2008 target picture – this because the challenges in a municipality with 100,000 inhabitants will be completely different from the smaller municipalities. For specialist health services, I would also like to assess the objectives of each healthcare company in addition to drawing up an overall target picture. In any event, the basic work of the Ministry will in future be the responsibility of key actors and the management of professional environments. This also implies a need to clarify the responsibilities of municipalities and regional health businesses. As a strategic intervention for further work, I want to challenge key actors in addition to municipalities and regional health companies to take greater responsibility for their positions. In this context, I would like to praise the Medical Association, which, in cooperation with the user organisations and other professionals, has shown excellent examples of this being possible. I am thinking about the so-called breakthrough projects, where there have been clear quality improvements in selected DPSs in the treatment of ADHD and in the reduction of forced use. I can mention some examples of these good results: The Jären DPS in Rogaland has reduced waiting time from 116 days to 63 days.The Nordic hospital Lofoten has increased the proportion of patients with individual level from 3 pst. for more than 20 pst. Egersund children’s and adolescents’ psychiatry has reduced the time for diagnosis of ADHD from 72 days to 30 days. At Gjøvik DPS, the number of patients who were diagnosed at all increased from previously notified 4 pst. until now over 50 pst. These are incredibly good results in a short time, and the Medical Association's breakthrough projects show the potential of the service when focusing on professionalism and management. In the 2006 state budget, I want to clarify the government’s mental health target for 2008 onwards. In this presentation, I have tried to give an open and honest picture of the situation as it is now assessed. The size will be further briefed on the housing situation in the municipalities in the revised national budget, as I was concerned about. The government will also come back to the Stortinget through the submission of the 2006 government budget with regard to the target picture and, where appropriate, changed budgetary needs. But I have to make it clear that many of the challenges I have described today cannot only be met with budgetary decisions in the Stortinget. The main challenges are probably primarily linked to better management, to more professionalism and not least to the will and ability to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e278	The President will propose that the Minister of Health and Health report on the state of mental health protection be discussed at a later meeting — and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e292	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e299	In the light of the proposal, the rapporteurs pointed out that Every year 20,000 women have serious pelvic unemployment problems, and one third of these women still suffer from this one year after birth. An overall committee believes that there is a need to monitor the municipalities' offer of practical assistance to their parents, but we share a little in relation to how this should be done. The proposers focus in particular on the need for assistance in the context of the fact that there are many who are plagued by pelvic solution. At the same time, it is a general problem not least to follow up on care when there is a birth-related illness and you have young children. The Committee agrees that pelvic lesion is a major problem for many births and that it is important that both rapid prevention and assistance are provided in relation to these plagues. This is documented in a large rehabilitation report carried out by the Landsföreningen für Kvinner mit Bekkenlössplalag in cooperation with the Ministry of Social and Health. The Committee clarifies in its position that those in need of help in the home are entitled to do so under the social services law §4-3, which specifies that the ‘who cannot take care of himself or who is entirely dependent on practical or personal assistance in order to do the tasks of daily life is entitled to help’. This also refers to the letter of 3 February 2005 from the Minister of Health and Welfare, where he clarifies this with Section 4-3 of the Social Services Act and also comes under Section 4-2 of the Social Services Act. The Committee supports the proposal for a detailed identification of the real need for practical parental assistance in the context of birth. The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs has been in contact with the Directorate for Social and Health, which will carry out a detailed monitoring through the health centres of this real need for practical assistance. A majority believe that it is natural that any measures ensuring that the need is met should be seen in the context of the outcome of such screening. At the same time, a minority believes that measures should be taken to ensure that families and individuals in need of practical assistance at home receive this offer quickly, and that the Stortinget also performs a survey in its municipalities of the real need for practical assistance at home, including in the case of the local authorities. in the case of assistance to parents in connection with childbirth, assistance to individuals or families in relation to serious illness, injury, disability and old age. The latter proposals are promoted by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party respectively. A majority of the Committee considers that this matter should be annexed to the minutes and that one should come back to it at a later date. On the part of the Central Party, we believe that one has to look at these issues, too, given that there is a need here for financial strengthening of the local government sector in order to create a good enough basis for assistance to be provided in the right way. Furthermore, there is a minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, who point out that one now assumes that the overall organisation of the Aetate, social services and social security offices could improve this situation and prevent families from becoming throwaways between the schemes. In a situation where mother becomes seriously ill at the same time as being responsible for a newborn child, social security legislation must appear as an economic safety net, so that the family does not have financial problems in addition. Then a particular one takes up the ability of fathers to provide care in connection with a birth. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party express the need to extend the ability of fathers to provide care in the context of birth, but that this must be done without jeopardising the term of maternity leave, and that the family itself should organise when leave can and is to be taken out. This is a matter which does not concern father’s maternity leave, but an extension of the father’s ability to participate in practical assistance at home and thus strengthen the possibility of being a child’s own wheel when problems arise in connection with illness, either in the child or in the parents themselves. Finally, I would like to bring up the proposals on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e322	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e325	I can largely agree with what the rapporteur said just now in his statement, but I need to draw up a few important points. The main purpose of this proposal from SV is to ensure a thorough monitoring of the real needs of Norwegian municipalities in terms of practical assistance and assistance at home in connection with a birth. There is a particular reference to the need for assistance from many women with pelvic ejaculation, often for quite a long time after birth, but there may also be other causes. Such monitoring should cover both the real extent of this need and the extent to which municipalities can currently provide the necessary assistance. In many municipalities, this is seen as little satisfactory and far from good enough to meet the needs. I am pleased that a joint social committee supports such monitoring, but it is therefore only the Central Party and SV who support a concrete proposal on this in the setting. And all that time everyone agrees on it, it seems strange. However, the reason is that the Ministry of Health and Health has informed that they have been in contact with the Directorate of Social and Health to carry out such monitoring and that it will come. In this situation, it might not be so clever if the Storting vote today on a concrete proposal for such a survey. I would therefore ask that proposal No. 3, from the SV and the Senterpartiet, is converted into a transmission proposal. I've done this with the Center Party, and I expect this monitoring of needs and resources to be set in motion quickly, if it's not already in progress. So to another point in the matter: it will often be that the most appropriate thing is that father can be the one who carries out the necessary care and the tasks of the concept of ‘practical assistance’ in cases where mother cannot carry out these tasks before and after birth for health reasons. It is only natural that such a scheme should not be at the expense of neither mother's nor father's rightful maternity leave. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre also promote a proposal whereby these parties ask the Government to provide arrangements to enable this to be done. That is proposal No. 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e341	Pain in the back and pelvis are common problems among pregnant women. According to one study, nearly four out of five women are plagued by this during pregnancy. Other studies show that for one in three pregnant women, such pain is a significant problem. In most cases, after birth, plagues stop, but in some cases they persist and become almost debilitating. Women with pelvic plaques that make them unable to care for the child or their home chores are entitled to help. It establishes Section 4-3 of the Social Services Act: ‘Any person who is unable to take care of himself or who is completely dependent on practical or personal assistance in order to do the tasks of daily life is entitled to help.’ Social services shall include, inter alia: include ‘practical assistance and training’ ‘for those who have a particular need for assistance because of illness, disability, age or other reasons’, as stated in Section 4-2. Everything from user-controlled personal assistance, which includes most of the hours of the day, to home help given half an hour every 14 days, is covered by this law. The central thing is not which group you belong to, but that they are concerned about, cannot take care of themselves, or need practical assistance to get everyday life to go on. In other words, the needs of the individual are central. It is the municipalities where the individual lives, who are responsible for providing this help. Some municipalities still have housewives, others do not. The central thing is also not what the helper is titulated as long as the help person is getting help. The Christian People's Party will stress that it is important that municipalities are free in relation to how they choose to organise services. Local authorities are aware of the needs of their citizens, and there is a need for local, individual adaptations. Of course, it is essential that the individual’s need for practical assistance and personal assistance is actually taken care of, and for that we have the municipalities and the supervisory authorities. The Christian People's Party does not consider it appropriate to monitor the overall need for assistance for all those covered by Sections 4 to 2 and 4 to 3, as the Centre Party and SV want – i.e. everything from women with pelvic leave to the elderly with the need for home help services. The supervisory authorities provide a continuous basis on which to prioritise at all times. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that it is positive that the Social and Health Directorate should identify the need for practical assistance to parents in the context of birth. Given the high proportion of women with pelvic disorders associated with pregnancy and childbirth, it is necessary from a woman’s health perspective to develop knowledge that can facilitate the prevention of severe and long-term pelvic lesion. I am particularly pleased with this as the case-rapporteur in connection with the public health communication. Fathers' ability to provide care for childbirth has increased greatly since the 1970s, when the housewife was common in many homes, which I myself benefited greatly from. The Christian People's Party is pleased that fathers are increasingly demanding and are putting emphasis on home chores. We are looking forward to the Ministry of Children and Family to further assess the possibilities and rights of fathers. The Christian People's Party believes that this must happen without going beyond Mother's leave. We think the family itself can best decide when the leave should and can be taken out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e377	I'll try as hard as I can, and as long as the voice carries, to deliver my message. The hoarseness is not due to COLS, just so that's said, so I'm still havoc in this case. I'm trying with this interpellation to put the spotlight on the need to achieve a national strategy for the treatment of chronic lung diseases. COLS is now one of the most common diseases in inpatient wards in Norwegian hospitals, and the large number of people affected by this disease is very worrying. It is claimed that the disease affects about 300,000 Nordics, which in turn leads to about 300,000. 30000 submissions per year, followed by approx. 2 000 deaths — this according to figures from the Lungs in Practice Association. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that this development will turn around with the first. So what's COLS? COLS is no new disease, but a collective term for what used to be called emphysema and chronic bronchitis. COLS is a chronic lung disease that gradually destroys the lungs, and the damage becomes permanent. Thus, COLS does not refresh you. The disease develops gradually without dramatic symptoms. One notices it early in the course of the disease with a lot of coughing and slime. This evolves so gradually and gets worse and worse. The reason for being hit by COLS is mainly due to long-term smoking, and it is therefore important to stop smoking as quickly as possible, if you are found to be developing COLS. Although there are probably people who believe that the disease is due to smoking and is therefore self-inflicted, it is with respect to report a completely wrong track to discuss after, as there is an abundance of diseases due to just lifestyle or other self-inflicted events. I therefore do not want to focus here and now on how to eliminate the risks associated with smoking, as this is done in a number of other contexts, plans and strategies. What are the characteristics of the typical COPD patients? They're always tongue-breathed, almost never go to movies, theaters or the like, as they feel uncomfortable about coughing, having a lot of slime, etc., and have a sense of suffocation and anxiety. The network of general practitioners with an interest in lung diseases, known as Lungs in Practice, has done a significant job of trying to identify the problems associated with this disease and what efforts should be made in the future to meet some of the formidable challenges we face. These are doctors who are very interested in the subject and who have developed a high level of competence through their work with this patient group. So I want to use some of the approaches that these doctors have, as a starting point for many of the issues that I want to focus on. I can already say that I do not come up with any hocuspocus solutions in terms of what can be done to combat this disturbing development, because there is just the lack of solutions, strategies and plans for the future that are the very issue that I am addressing in the interview. Early diagnosis is important in order to initiate treatment before the damage has become too severe. This can be done by means of a simple blow test, spirometry, which can be done away with about. Ten minutes. This, it's claimed, is enough to make a diagnosis. It is therefore worrying that it is claimed that many have actually been diagnosed without an objective investigation. It is also claimed that the majority of patients and doctors underestimate the degree of disease and its severity. Internationally recommended guidelines related to the treatment of COPD have been developed, and this has been done by the International GOLD Committee. These are close to the consensus that emerged in a so-called therapy workshop that was held under the direction of the SLV in 2001. According to the information given to me, these have never been published, and it is even claimed by some that it may also seem to be countered by the authorities in this matter. However, this is a claim that the undersigned has no opinion on whether it is correct or not. There is also reason to focus on the pharmaceutical policy pursued in this area. It should be noted that medicinal products used in the treatment of asthma and in the treatment of COPD are largely overlapping. This is important if you want to take with you, for example. chooses to split the reimbursement point in the blue recipe, so that this is taken into account. I find reason to question why in Norway we have not chosen to follow the international guidelines related to the treatment of this disease. Is the fear of some increase in the costs of some medicinal products greater than the desire to give patients a better daily life? I'm just asking the question. If not, what is the reason? I would ask the Council of State to explain clearly what has happened to the medicinal products related to COLS treatment that the Government of the State budget for 2005 proposed to transfer from Section 9 of the regulation on bladder prescription to Section 10(a), but where the majority of the Storting decided that this should not happen – they should not be transferred from general reimbursement under Section 9 to individual reimbursement under Section 10(a). I expect and hope that the Council of State can now guarantee that the clear decisions of the majority of the population have been followed, and that reimbursement is made in accordance with Section 9. I hope we can agree that the great scale of and the negative developments we see related to the problem of COLS should now become part of a national plan against COLS, which will be the best both for society and for the individual patient. In this context, there is also reason to consider, inter alia: should be looking at a system of national councils. Also in the COLS field, it is quite clear that we in Norway are not good enough in terms of research. I hope that for the future we will look at how to strengthen research in this area. I fear that the evolution that we see is just going to continue, because one develops and worsens his disease image the older you get. The population is getting older, and we know that very, very many people in this country have been smoking, and a lot of smoking, at a young age, which is going to have consequences. I look forward to the answers of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e405	COLS, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a serious lung disease. It is serious for the individual patient affected, but it is also serious for society because it actually hits as many as 10 pst. of the adult population. And what's perhaps even more worrying: the presence of COLS is also increasing in large parts of the industrialized world. The reason is simple, almost regrettablely simple: COLS makes the long-term effect of tobacco smoking visible, especially active smoking, but also passive. Although we have had a happy reduction in the number of smokers in Norway in recent years, this will not appear in relation to the number of COPD patients in this round. It takes 15 to 20 years or more before smokers develop COLS. There is also another issue that gives cause for concern. Once a person has developed COLS, the disease will not turn around or heal. However, the disease develops gradually, from relatively modest symptoms to very severe and almost life-threatening conditions. But on the other hand, we know that early diagnosis and treatment stabilize the disease and limit the deterioration. In other words, we can help to give patients a better life. The knowledge base for COLS is in rapid development. Guidance and professional guidance on diagnostics and treatment have been established both internationally and here in Norway. Norwegian supervisors focus on practical use, i.e. on individual patients. In the following, I would like to describe six main challenges in relation to COLS. Firstly, prevention is very important, especially because there is no cure. The prevention activity should have a clear purpose: to avoid the individual starting to smoke. It is also a goal that as many as possible of those who have nevertheless been so stupid to begin, stop smoking. Secondly, the knowledge base on which the treatment system is based needs to be verified, reviewed, renewed and updated. We have to make sure that this is used by the doctors, and especially by the general practitioners. The development of the knowledge base requires research, and we have significant research activity in this area also in Norway. Let me briefly give two examples of the challenge we face in research. Firstly, we know that a group of COPD patients have a particularly aggressive course of disease, but we don't know who these individuals are. Nor do we know why exactly these have a more serious and dramatic course of disease than others. This is knowledge that is important to get, because it can enable us to identify which patients need to be followed up in particular. Secondly, women seem to have a more aggressive variant of COLS than men. We also don't know why it is, but it's an important aspect of women's health that we need more knowledge and research about. Increased knowledge will provide a better basis for prevention and treatment provision. The third main challenge is related to early and correct diagnostics. I have been informed that early diagnostics can be difficult. Patients often experience themselves as healthy or with very modest plagues, while testing shows the development of COPD. Therefore, it is important that doctors use pulmonary function tests in case of a suspicion of COPD. Such studies are relatively simple to carry out when doctors first have the equipment and training to use it. We don't know to what extent such studies are done by COLS, but figures from the Swedish National Agency indicate that in very close proximity to all patients with COLS, so-called spirometry is done once or twice a year. The study provides a basis for the treatment and follow-up of the patient. This follow-up must be tailored for the individual patient in order to have a lasting effect. The fourth main challenge is early intervention. It is important to take action early in order to avoid or slow down the development of disease. Although I just said that there is a need to develop the knowledge base around COLS, we're not without knowledge. The smoke end, usually combined with physical exercise, has a positive effect. The fifth main element is systematic follow-up and control of patients. After diagnosis, patients must be followed up with medical checks and measurement of pulmonary function. Monitoring the course of the disease is important to see whether measures taken are effective. The last challenge I want to point out is medical treatment. The drug supply to patients with COPD is limited. No medicinal product can make patients healthy, but the symptoms can be treated and alleviated. The Government presented the issue of COPD medicinal products in the 2005 budget. This statement included the medicinal products that have been medically authorised for COLS and their reimbursement status. The International Guides, as the Norwegian, advise on the medical treatment of COPD. In 2004, the Swedish National Medicines Agency assessed the Norwegian Guide and concluded that it is uncertain whether it is based on a sufficiently safe knowledge base. As you know, the Stortinget adopted the following, on which the inter-pellant was involved, in the treatment of the 2005 State budget: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the medicinal products used in the treatment of chronic obstructive lung disease: [[COLS]] The decision of the Trustee raised several questions both in relation to the legislation in force and its practice and in relation to the budgetary implications. That is why the Government, as I have said before, will report back on this now in spring in the revised national budget. The representative Nesvik asked in his interview if I would like to take the initiative for a national strategy against COLS. I share Nesvik's view. COLS is a major public health problem, and a better coordinated and more targeted response to COLS is needed. It may therefore be appropriate for this to take the form of a comprehensive national strategy. I want to launch such a national strategy. The main elements of this, as far as I can see, are likely to be targeted measures against smoking, in particular to younger women, better knowledge of general practitioners, on the one hand to ensure more adequate and early diagnosis, and on the other to provide a basis for knowledge-based treatment on the other. Specific efforts will also be appropriate to ensure that research-based knowledge leads to concrete actions against COLS. This includes research areas such as the effect and content of smoking strategies, women’s health research — we need to explain why women get a more aggressive form of COPD and what we can do about it — and how a quality diagnosis can be made early as a general practitioner in the course of the disease related to the use of spirometry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e436	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a very good response, and not least an appropriate response, so here we can have hopes that we will now launch a strategy to get more coordinated action linked to this issue. I fully support all six points on which the Council of State was involved, including what goes on in the prevention of smoking. There are many who may be somewhat surprised that with my relationship with the smoking law, I am gripping this issue, but it is a very important matter, especially related to the development that we see among young girls. Here I fully support the Council of State. We have to do something, just to get a better development in the long term. So I really look forward to that. The piece of information is very important to get here now, not least a unified information and recommendations. Because it's important to get that information out to people most. In fact, some of the country’s inhabitants depend on getting information related to this, so that, among other things, they do. know what to ask for when you are with a doctor in order to get the tests that will be done. It's important to get this in place. In addition, it is also important that the course be given to determine both the use of drugs and the importance of proper breathing tests. Although the Council of State indicates that some research is being done in this area, it is important that we intensify research now, precisely because the cost of society is enormous in this respect, and because it has such incredible consequences for the individual affected. I look forward to the further debate and what comes from the other parties. But, as I said, I will give tribute to the Council of State for now looking at this and ensuring that there is a national strategy. So I hope that again will cause us to reverse the negative developments that we see, at least in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e447	Yes, we'll get back to this in order. We are embarking on work to provide such a national strategy with relevant and solid content that should be applicable to those to which this applies primarily, namely those who have COPD. But not least in view of the meeting between COPD patients and doctors, it is important that we assist the general practitioners with what is necessary to be aware of the symptoms, as I understand it, is important to address them early in order to stop the development of the disease – not least so that the patient himself will have one new reason to stop smoking. The representative Nesvik himself was in the smoking law and his relationship with this. Without me remembering in detail what the representative Nesvik has said about that matter, I can almost imagine it. But I think to the extent that in 10, 15 and 20 years you could meet all the healthy and upcoming people who didn't get COLS maybe just because we got the smoking law, these would have expressed great enthusiasm. The second thing I registered when I read the basic material here was the other factors that, in addition to direct smoking, help you get COLS. The largest factor relative to indoor climate was passive smoking. This means that this applies to both active smoking and passive smoking, so perhaps the most important contribution in this context is what has been done in relation to the Smoking Act. When it comes to the other things, we have to get back to it. But it's clear that there's a lot of lack of knowledge, as you don't know, among other things. why we have this big difference between men and women. It's a perspective that's important in many dimensions. As I said, I will come back in a relevant way also in relation to the Storting and disclose this national strategy. But in response to the actual interpellation, I will now start work on developing such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e458	The councils have got a quite young audience in the gallery, so it might be useful to start there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e461	Yeah, there's a lot of consensus in the hall, so that's how we could like to stop the debate here. But I think it is important that this issue is debated as widely as it is done here, because all parties need to pay great attention to it. It's very important that the Storting also has it. After all, the councils have blacked out very well and presented their plans for the work he intends to continue with, and we are very pleased with that. We've already addressed this problem in different contexts. We also agree, and it also came out of the answer, that for a long, long time in the future we will have an increasing incidence of COLS. This means that we will have even more deaths than we have today, and many will suffer poorer health and increasingly poor quality of life. It will call on the health authorities for a long time in the future, regardless of the short-term measures that need to be implemented. We know that COLS influences the number of sick days, the number of medical visits and the number of hospitalisations. It's expensive for society, and it's expensive for the individual. The most important thing is what the Minister was about and why he was doing so well, namely the need for prevention. Then it is very important that one comes to treatment to reduce the risk of rapid disease development. I want to put a little question mark on whether our healthcare system is really prepared to give these patients the necessary offer. I think there might be reason to ask if we have enough capacity with regard to specialists, i.e. lung doctors, if we simply have enough lung wards in our hospitals, and not least if we have a rehabilitation facility where the patient is allowed to spend time on rehabilitation, and if we as political authorities are willing to fund it. So I just want to stress what's my main point-- it's already mentioned, so I'm not going to elaborate on it: it's very important that the primary doctor's level of knowledge is upgraded so that the patient can get an early diagnosis and thus an early treatment opportunity. We know that from research will be a significant help for many patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e472	It is an affordable initiative that Mr Nesvik has taken here to have a discussion on the challenges we face in relation to COLS. We are now increasingly seeing the result that we had a society that wasn't conscious enough of the negative consequences of smoking quite a short time ago. It is quite rarely one in the field of health that sees such a clear link between a lifestyle problem and a disease. In this way, perhaps the popular name of COLS should have been smoking lungs, so that someone quickly got to say that there is a clear link between their own behavior and the disease situation. However, this does not mean that society should not set up and start work on both the prevention and treatment of this disease. Although the representative of Nesvik was involved in prevention, I am quite surprised that there was not initially a theme in the interpellation, since this is an area where there must be a clear link between driving prevention and the concrete results. But it may well have, as Nesvik himself was involved, with the history of the Progress Party linked to, among other things. the smoking law to be complied with. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is in favour of the proposal to have a comprehensive national strategy, and I am also pleased that the overall national strategy, on which the Minister of Health was involved, should include prevention as a central element. But the main part of what the representative Nesvik takes up in his interpellation, namely early diagnosis, is also incredibly important. This is a patient group that if they, point one, don't get an early diagnosis, or, point two, get a diagnosis, but not good enough follow-up, can quickly get into a situation where the disease itself and the consequences of it can lead to a negative spiral. COLS, as I said, will lead to both reduced lung capacity and often to severe problems with coughing. That in itself can lead to one doing the stinging opposite of what one should have done, one isolating himself maybe, doing little physical activity and staying calm to dampen the negative sides of the disease. In this way, the effect of an actual disease is enhanced. Maybe some people also sit still, smoke on and don't get involved in the basic problem. It is therefore important that such a national strategy focuses both on prevention and on early diagnosis. However, it is also important that we be able to achieve a concrete follow-up to the guidelines on medication, because their follow-up will both improve the health of users and reduce the cost to society, so that the funds can be used for prevention next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e487	Several have said that, but I would like to repeat it: it was a commendable initiative from the interpellant and very clear, good response from the Council of State. Chronic obstructive lung disease is something that is plagued by a lot of people, and there is a close link between smoking and the development of the disease. This is why prevention is seen to be extremely important. It is rare to see such a clear link between prevention and the effectiveness to prevent the development of the disease. Therefore, I was probably also surprised that the interpellant itself did not withdraw that agreement on prevention measures is necessary, because that means that measures that have an impact have to be looked at. With regard to smoking, there can be no doubt today that the introduction of the tobacco injury law in Norway under then Social Minister Tove Strand Gerhardsen at the end of the 1980s has had clear positive effects in terms of smoking patterns in the Norwegian population. Many, many thousands have thus, as a consequence, not developed this disease. So the measures have been reinforced by protecting against smoking in outdoor areas, which in itself would be a positive measure to prevent the development of the disease. In addition, we see how price mechanisms work. We see that in countries that have very reasonable prices for tobacco, people have far more pronounced problems than we do in Norway. We also see that the difference between the sexes has been obliterated in terms of smoking; women have started smoking more and men less. This is why, of course, all these measures are important which, in total, can help to reduce the development of the disease. One aspect that should not be forgotten is that in many workplaces there is a combination of smoking and having special occupations, such as: where you have a weld flame, where you have a smoke development, and where you have developed the disease by inhalation of drugs at the workplace. Therefore, this is not a phenomenon that can only be isolated for leisure activities. It is important to look at the workplace, look at the Working Environment Act and look at the kind of measures that make people have the right and the right to stay in smoke-free environments even when doing work. Of course, as the Council of State was aware, it is very important that people who do not smoke themselves have the right and the right to be in smoke-free environments, regardless of where they are going in society, whether they are on leisure or whether they are applying for a profession in which others in that profession smoke. The place of work you have must be smoke-free, so that you do not develop the disease on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e500	I would also like to start by giving tribute to the representative Nesvik because in this interview he has taken up the significant challenge that COLS is, both for the patient who becomes the frame, and also for society as a whole. It is claimed by the World Health Organisation that it is about world-wide. 600 million people who suffer from this disease, and that there are nearly 3 million who die of him every quarter of a year. COLS is one of the fastest growing diseases in the world. The interpellant said that there are about 300,000 people over 18 years of age in Norway who have this disease, and unfortunately we know that this number will increase in the early years. This challenge requires a strong focus and would like to see a holistic and more intensive strategy beyond current guidance and professional guidelines, which the Council of State also emphasised in a good way. The COPD patients are mainly people who have smoked for a long time. So the most important thing we can do to curb the increase we've seen in COLS is to put a strong search light on prevention, so that fewer people start smoking, and that one gets those who's already started smoking, to stop. Fortunately, we are in a good trend in this area. It is particularly important that a focus is on prevention, as there is no cure. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that this government has taken a long and important step through the new smoking law. Smoking has led to fewer passive smoking and fewer people today smoking. Even if the effects of smoking laws don't come until 15-20 years, I think this is one of the most important things we've done in this room. One might wonder that the party that is today asking for the creation of a national strategy against COLS is the same party that went against smoking laws. Prevention is, as I said, the most important thing we can do in this matter. The Christian People’s Party is therefore pleased that the Council of State was so offensive in its response to the interpellant. The Christian People's Party is concerned that as early as possible find the right diagnosis to try to slow down or avoid further development of the disease. All long-term smokers should have a conversation with the supervisor about typical indicators of the disease. After the diagnosis has been confirmed, it is also decisive that the patient is followed up in a good and satisfactory way. The Christian People's Party also believes that there is a need for a national strategy against COLS, so that one can get a more intensified and targeted effort. I am pleased that the Council of State responded offensively and well to this. I'm on the back, I'm on the same line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e519	I will also first give tribute to the interpellant Harald T. Nesvik for a commendable initiative, so that we were allowed to discuss this matter. I also want to give tribute to the Minister of Health for the clear answers and the good account he had. I have sometimes heard from the Minister of Health that I am well critical, and I reserve the right to be in the future as well. But it should be right: I think that was a good explanation, and that was a good conclusion from the Minister of Health. It is important that one can prevent and stop the development that has been pointed out by many. It is clear that smoking law, cutting smoking, and failing to start smoking are the most important things. It affects the private sphere to a large extent, but the public sector has a responsibility to raise awareness. Maybe that's how, as the representative Höie said, COLS should really be called smoking lungs, although I think that the external environment, air pollution in general combined with smoke, is a dangerous combination for the development of COLS. So to this with research. I fully agree with what has been said about being able to research this in a completely different way from what is being done today, among other things. as regards aggressive disease development in relation to COPD and the development among women. At the same time, it is important that, at primary health level, it is both understanding and competence to act early. The public practice has been withdrawn here, and I think it is important that there is an increased understanding of this disease, so that you can get an early and correct diagnosis, as the Minister of Health also said. It is important that a person is given an overview of whether a person makes a specific diagnosis and that such a study is used in general. Early intervention and follow-up of the patient are also important. As the representative of Kristoffersen was concerned, the question is: with the development of this disease that we are now seeing, do we have enough capacity for the future and good enough competence for treatment and not least for rehabilitation? It is one of the challenges that we need to address and clarify as soon as possible and possibly follow up. With the clear answer given by the Council of State here when it came to saying yes to a national strategy and getting a better and coordinated effort against COLS, I hope that it also includes a proper clarification of the medical treatment and a follow-up to the proposal promoted in Stortinget in connection with the State budget regarding the use of Section 9 and not the use of Section 10(a) in connection with the medication of COPD patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e535	The representative Nesvik has got a lot of praise now, and I would like to join the ranks of those who give him credit for having corrected the search light against COLS. As the debate has shown, this is a major problem for women – it is, and it will certainly be in the future as well. The representative Nesvik points to the cause, which is obvious, namely smoking. But I think it is commendable that the interpellant does it without condemnation and points out that there are actually many other lifestyle diseases that challenge Norwegian health care. I understand that the government is proud of the smoking law, but I think the council goes far when he says in the first of the six points he presents, that the most important thing is to get people to quit smoking when they've been so stupid that they've started smoking. I'm responding to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e544	First, I would like to thank you for the feedback that the interpellant has promoted the issue. Then I will also admit the following: I was not so very surprised by the feedback, where almost everyone asks questions about the fact that I am taking up the interpellation, with my relationship with the smoking law, which I was strongly opposed to. It shouldn't surprise anyone at all, because the Progress Party has actually always been for prevention and to make people stop smoking, and not least don't start smoking. That's the way we're doing it, we've asked questions about it. We'll have an opportunity to discuss that. I want to replicate to the representative, Höie, who pointed out that there was nothing in my post about the main reason. Then I'll read it again for the representative, Höie, so he gets it with him. I said the following: ‘The cause of being hit by COLS is mainly related to long-term smoking, and it is therefore important to stop smoking as quickly as possible’. So, related to follow-up and smoking, I also said – to Höie's information: ‘I therefore do not want to focus here and now on how to eliminate the risk of smoking, as this is done in a number of other contexts’. That's the part I referred to – we're discussing this in a lot of fields. So the thing is that there are also other things that affect COLS and people who develop COLS, it's not just smoking. That's why I'm saying'mainly'. In this connection, I would like to refer to a letter that I have received, from those who are working on this to daily. It says: ‘In many developing countries, coal is very widespread due to toxic gases from cooking over open fire. In England it was formerly common among coal miners. In the West today, coal is mainly due to cigarette smoking, but it is also likely that other pollutants contribute to the increase.’ So we don't have to look completely blind at that particular piece. But yes, smoking is a major cause. And no, I'm not judgmental. It's perfectly conscious that I'm not exactly that, because we have a responsibility anyway. We also have a number of other lifestyle diseases that this room will not discuss at all – whether you are stupid because you eat fat food, for example. But thinking about your actions and the way you do things is important. One thing I'm very pleased about is that the interpellation has at least led to a national strategy. I am very happy about it, and look forward – on behalf of the patients affected by this and their families – to something else in this area, so that the everyday life of these people gets better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e570	Then it's the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e573	It is nice that I get the floor, I had so far not asked for it. I thought it was possible for the representative of Nesvik to conclude. But just a little line, if you can call it that, to the representative Olsen, so there's no misunderstanding about that it's stupid to start smoking. It should not be understood that you are stupid in meaning not wise or not having the IQ. But it's not very wise to start smoking. Most of those who smoke have done it for a long time, and those of us who have done it for a few years have no problem saying that you wish you hadn't. But there's no condemnation in it, either of us who have eaten too many loaves or other things. The most important thing about the interpellation seems to me to be the wide lashing this has. We're going to develop a national strategy for this that's going to be built on as safe a knowledge as possible, to assist the patient and, not least, to set up the general practitioner, the doctor, to be able to provide good service on a safe basis to these patients. I would also like to thank the representative Nesvik for this interview, and the opportunity it gives to assist this particular patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e582	Then the interpellation debate is under case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e596	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e603	The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is unanimous in the matter we are now debating. Jan Simonsen is not in the committee, and we have therefore agreed that we will refer the debate to the Odelstinget discussion later today by Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e608	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e611	With three minutes to explain three suggestions, I can't go deep. So just, for proposal no. 1 to remove the quantum discount: It is obvious that it is unfair that a criminal is not fully punished for all of the criminal acts he commits. For proposal No 2: The justification is self-evident, but of course the proposal is relevant only if proposal No. 1 shall be adopted. As regards proposal No: 3, on the automatic doubling of punishment in a second conviction, triple in a third conviction, etc., it is significantly different from the American proposal on ‘Three Strikes and You’re Out’ — i.e., where, after a third sentence, one is given life-long imprisonment — by the fact that in my proposal there is a link between action and punishment. If you commit a crime and you get three months of imprisonment, if that's the third time you're convicted, you're going to get 3x3, i.e. 9 months of imprisonment, while you get significantly less punishment if it's car theft. What is alarming and I would like to point out is that a unanimous committee rejects the proposals. A unanimous committee refers to the ministry's letter where, among other things, states that these proposals ‘leave the principle of human criminal justice’, and argue that it will cost money, in the form of building more prisons. Now I am not so sure if my proposals prevent and prevent people from committing crime. The alarming point of view is the position of the Progress Party, for it is then essential that both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 3 previously presented in the Grand Prix of the Advance Party. In fact, I have been sitting at a press conference next to the Chairman of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, and presented proposal No. 3 for media. Today, the Progress Party opposes these proposals and refers to the Ministry's justification that these proposals – which the Progress Party has previously supported and also used in the election campaign to show the lack of criminal policy to other parties – leave a humane criminal justice system. Thus, the Progress Party has done a solid turnaround in criminal policy and is no longer a party that is tough on the criminals, and it is hoped that the Progress Party will not turn out as in the election campaign either. I'll bring up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e628	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e631	You should certainly listen to former party colleagues when they talk and have good ambitions on behalf of themselves and the rest. At the same time, I believe that if the representative Simonsen is concerned about the development of crime and the level of penalties in this country, he has the full opportunity to support the proposals of the Progress Party during the treatment of the criminal law later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e636	Of course, I will vote in favour of all the proposals that mean tightening up today's legislation and, of course, support the proposals that the Progress Party will make at the Odelsting meeting later today. However, none of these proposals go as far as the proposals that the Progress Party is voting on today and that the Progress Party has thus supported in the past. It's in the middle. S. No 140: ‘The Committee also refers to the Ministry’s assessment of the proposal by letter to the Committee of 9 March 2005.’ And so these proposals are totally slaughtered – proposals that the Progress Party has previously supported. So, regardless of whether the Progress Party makes proposals later today that are better than the majority's proposals at some point, the Progress Party has clearly turned its back on criminal policy and is in favour of weak measures against criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e646	The President indicates that there will be a major debate later in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e649	No, no, no. Of course, you have to take with you the reasonable feedback you get, but I would like to challenge the representative Simonsen to perhaps read the setting to be discussed later today in the Odelstinget, where the Progress Party is essentially taking over the proposals that the representative Simonsen here has. But I think that if the representative Simonsen wants to be with and color and clarify things politically, he should perhaps take this as part of the penal code. When you have a review of it, it's the way to do it, at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e654	Jan Simonsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e658	So that's not what you say and write, which means something in politics, that's what you do, and how you vote in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e663	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e676	Then we are ready to go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e686	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ola D. Glötvold, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party's proposal No. 3, by Ola D. Glötvold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 3 has been converted into a transmission proposal and the text is amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a survey in its municipalities of the real need for practical assistance at home, including in the case of assistance to parents in connection with birth, assistance to individuals or families in connection with serious injury, sickness, disability and/or old age.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that families/individuals in need of practical assistance at home are offered.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the possibility for fathers to provide care in connection with birth.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e735	In Case No. 3 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11.ana.ud325e743	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward three proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary changes to the law so that a criminal punishable at the same time for several crimes is punishable for each of the offences, so that those penalties are added when the overall penalty is imposed.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose any necessary legislative amendment to clarify that killing of a pregnant mother with a foetus older than the age allowed for abortion is considered as killing two independent persons in those cases where the foetus is also dying.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring forward the necessary legislative proposals to implement a system whereby the criminal proceedings taken in the second conviction are automatically multiplied by two, in the third conviction by three, etc.’.
