ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e89	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e110	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 30 minutes, the right 30 minutes, the progress party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e119	This is a great day for the Sami population and for Finnmark. The conflict over the extension of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse in the 1980s made it clear that in Norway there was a great need to clarify the state's relations with Sami culture and legal status. After this dispute, there was a broad consensus that it was necessary to find out which place to have together in the Norwegian community. There was also a need for a more detailed identification of the specific legal conditions associated with Sami culture and activities in the areas of the community of traditional populations. In response, the Joint Court Committee was appointed in 1980, and its first investigation was available in 1984, NOU 1984:18 on the legal position of the Joint Court. The Law of Association was adopted in 1987 as a direct consequence of the recommendations of that inquiry. Paragraph 110a of the Basic Law on the State's Obligations towards the Sami People's Group was adopted in 1988 and the first merger elections were held in 1989. The Joint Court Committee continued its work after 1984 to clarify Sámi jurisprudence and to give it an appropriate role in the protection of the material basis for Sámi culture. The committee's overall proposal for the legal regulation of the situation in Finnmark was presented in NOU 1997:4 The natural basis for Sami culture. In this NOU, the Joint Court Committee did not take a final position on the Sámi legal situation south of Finnmark. The Joint Judicial Committee was therefore re-appointed on 1 June 2001, with that issue as the starting point for the mandate. Proposals for legislation on the legal conditions and management of land and natural resources in the Finnish state, or the Finnish state, as it is now popularly called, were submitted by the Bondevik II government on 4 April 2003. The legislative proposal was a good starting point for improved basic government in Finnmark. It gives Sametinget and Finnmark County a formalized and actually co-determination over areas that are very important as a basis for Sami culture and for Finnmark as such. The Finnmark Act is an important element of the work on Sámi rights, and the identification of rights to take place will further underline this. The proposal for the Finnish Law has created a major debate. From more teams, including: The merger, it was claimed, did not fully comply with conventions that Norway has undertaken to comply with. It was claimed that both ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous and indigenous peoples of independent States and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. As a result, on 19 June 2003, the Justice Committee asked the Ministry of Justice to provide a qualified independent assessment of the proposal for a new Finnish law. The Ministry engaged Professors Geir Ulfstein and Hans Petter Graver at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo to make the assessment. Their investigation ‘Legal assessment of the proposal for a new Finnish law’ was forwarded to Stortinget on 3 November 2003. Ulfstein and Graver concluded that the Government’s proposals on important points were not sufficient to comply with ILO Convention No. 169. The Judicial Committee then asked on 18 December 2003 for the Government's assessment of the professors' investigation. The Ministry’s feedback was received by letters of 6 April and 14 June 2004. The government based its assessments on an investigation by the U.D. Department of Justice, which at certain points disagreed with Ulfstein and Graver's description of the international law in force. The government considered that the bill was not contrary to Norway’s international obligations. However, in order to ensure more loyal compliance with the requirements of the ILO Convention on the identification of acquired collective and individual rights, the Government considered it appropriate to consider additional measures. In a letter of 14 June 2004, the Ministry of Justice outlined possible solutions, including: a Commission that would recognise existing rights. On the initiative of the Judicial Committee, four consultations were held with the Sametinget and Finnmark county council during 2004 and 2005. In this way, Norway’s international legal obligations to consult groups have been taken into account in the work of the Stortingen. This is a constitutional innovation. The fact that the Stortinge during the proceedings has consulted the County Council and the Sametinge has been an important and very useful tool in achieving a solution that can bring together the widest possible support. In addition, the Judicial Committee has received additional written input from the In-process Sameting. It has been important to find solutions for Finnmark which comply with international law and which can be accepted by both the Sametinget and the County Council. I will now go into the majority's proposal for supplements in the Finnish Government's proposal for Finnish Law. It is stated in principle in the Act that, through the long-term use of land and water, rights have been acquired in Finnmark. However, Finnish land and water rights shall be recognised independently of ethnic background. Other residents of Finnmark may also have acquired rights. So being of Norwegian, Sami, female or other descent does not mean anything in terms of gaining recognition of existing rights. As well as the existing rights of others, they must be identified and recognised. In order to identify rights to land and water in Finnmark, a separate Commission — the Finnish Commission — and a specialised court — the Finnish Court of Justice is established. The organisation is to be confused with the Nordic and Troms Foreign Affairs Commission. The purpose paragraph is strengthened in relation to Finnmark’s interests, including the Sámi interests, by the extension of the reference to the public outside Finnmark. However, this does not involve an exclusion of the public. We ‘shringers’ should still have access to hunting and fishing in Finnmark. It follows clearly from Paragraph 25 of the Law. However, because the Finnland Act is primarily to regulate the consideration of the inhabitants of the county and the consideration of the Sami conditions, the government parties and the Workers' Party considered it appropriate to remove the reference to the public in the provision of purpose, otherwise with full support from the county council and the Sameting. ILO Convention No 169 will be an important interpretative factor in the application of the Finnland Act. It follows from Section 3 that the law shall apply to ‘with the limitations’ resulting from the ILO Convention. This means that it is in front of the Finnland Act if it appears that the provisions of the Law are contrary to the provisions of the ILO Convention. On the other hand, if, in the light of the ILO Convention, the law is lacking provisions of a specific content, this will be a task for the legislators. In other words, the courts shall not use the ILO Convention to enforce the Finnish Law. It is established that the management of fishing in the Tana and Neide waters shall be local and rights-based. In addition, the majority ask the Government to investigate the rights of Sami and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark. We also asked to investigate and assess the possibility of a minimum quota for boats below 10 metres. In cases of altered use of land, public authorities shall assess the impact of the change on Sami culture, reindeer management, land use, nutrition and social life, on the basis of guidelines developed by Sametinget. The Judicial Committee has strengthened public authorities' obligation to assess Sami considerations in the event of a change in the use of land in accordance with the guidelines of the Sameting for this assessment, without giving the Sameting a right of refusal in matters relating to the changed use of land. The autonomy of Finnmark property vis-à-vis other authorities is further strengthened by the fact that the State is not to appoint any of its members and by the fact that Finnmark property is to enjoy general expropriation protection. In addition, access to specific rights to the exploitation of outlanding resources has been extended to allow the system to capture Sami traditions more easily. Being the case rapporteur for the Finnish Law has been a challenge. It has been frustrating, it has been annoying, and it has been engaging, but not least it has been a great joy. This is without doubt the most special matter I have worked with in my two periods on Stortinget. The issue is special because it is essentially about doing right for old injustice to the indigenous people of the country, but it is also special because the proceedings themselves have been unique – yes, I would say, historical. It is very gratifying that a thorough and lengthy process produces results. Consultations and treatment of the suspension in both Finnmark county and Sametinget have given the legal process local anchoring and increased legitimacy. I hope and believe that when the law becomes known among the inhabitants of Finnmark, it will have broad support. Now is the time for those who want to spread rumors and falsehoods about what the Finnish Law will mean for Finnmark. It's time for knowledge of a law that I think will give our northernmost state a new one. There have been heavy times along the way, but also much to rejoice over. I would like to thank Sametinget and Finnmark for their constructive and critical contributions, and I would like to thank Knut Storberget and the Workers' Party for their responsibility and willingness to find common solutions for Finnmark. I am pleased to note that the Central Party is also joining the majority proposal of the Judicial Committee. The SV and the Progress Party have their own proposals, which they will probably explain. I would also like to take the opportunity to take a strong distance from the leaks and the suspicion that the work has been subjected to. It is clear that some people do not trust the democratic processes. In my opinion, no legislative process has been more open and democratic than this. It is therefore gratifying to note that both the elected bodies which have been the consultative partners of the Judicial Committee have supported the present position: the assembly unanimously and the assembly by more than 2/3 majority. Now it's time to look forward. Infringements shall be replaced by the right to land, the right to water, the right to use and the right to own, for all persons in Finnland who have acquired rights. Finnmark is facing an exciting time. I would like to encourage cooperation on solutions for the benefit of all, and I would like to congratulate, not least, the Finnish Government on an important work. Shame the critics' fortune tellers, give Finnmark a new start!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e182	Never before has Stortinget dealt with a matter so thoroughly and with such rich opportunities for the interested parties to make recordings. I agree with the rapporteur that we are faced with constitutional innovation in many ways here. When the Workers' Party in its time wanted consultations to be held in Stortinget, it was not only on the basis of the ILO Convention, but it was also because we thought it would bring the matter forward. However, I would like to ask the case rapporteur, in relation to the process that has now been, whether it is correct what the evening post today says: ‘Proposals for a law have created waves in our northernmost state, perhaps most because the law was kept secret and you had to deal with leakages.’ Is it true that parts of this legal work have been kept secret beyond the ordinary process of the Storting? And will the President-in-Office be satisfied with the input and the openness that has actually been in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e194	I said in my post that I thought this has been the most open and democratic treatment of a law that Stortinget has ever had. I justify that it was first an ordinary hearing, in June 2003, and we had four consultations, the last of which was opened, because there was suspicion of what was going on in these consultations. The records of all consultations have now been released. So there's no reason to claim this, and it's scary that a newspaper like the Evening Post can write something like this when it's been an open process. Documents have gone to the Sametinget and to the County Council, which are the two elected bodies in Finnmark that we have been dealing with. That is why I believe that this process has formed a good basis, and I look at my satisfaction that the government has now also decided to consult the indigenous people, the Sameting, on special issues. So this has formed precedent, I think, for further treatment of these kinds of things, and is an example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e201	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter. I also share his views on the process along the way. At the same time, this case is undoubtedly controversial in some contexts. It challenges people both in Finnmark and in the rest of the country. I also record that it does so in the right. I note that the majority of Finnmark Højre's county council has actually voted against this proposal. Then it is in the extension of the tempting to ask the case rapporteur and the representative of the Right whether it is such that the County Council has not understood the message that the Right of the Stortinget has stood for, or do they see any other consequence of this that the President of the Court and the Right down here have not received?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e208	There has been a long process linked to the Finnland Act. There have been significant changes of opinion and changes of position in all camps in this case. In Finnmark Right and also in Finnmark Right County there have been significant changes. So from the start with a government in Finnmark's property that would be composed of 7–0 in the favour of Finnmark County, there are now different attitudes. If the majority of the county council of Finnmark Right chose not to vote in favour of the law when they were to speak, we have to accept it. We are an open and democratic party. But I just want to make it clear that the Right Big Group today will vote in favour of the law. We will follow up this work further. We want to know what the Finnmarks Act involves. And the official policy of the Right will be to build on what the Finnish Law provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e215	I want to start by thanking the rapporteur for a very good job. It has been thorough, and it has paved the way for a process linked up to the Sametinget that I think we can be proud of in Norway. That being said, Greece, almost until surrender, has foreshadowed that the Workers' Party's governance model would have such great consequences that it was impossible for the government parties to accept it. So now they've swallowed a quasi-variant, which I'll say was almost snowcreted together in the late hours of the night. It's about Section 10. SV agrees with Finnmark Right that the unclear composition of the board of the Finnmark property is a very poor solution, which could lead to a polarisation between the county council and the Sameting as regards the appointment of board representatives in the Finnmark property. It is assumed that there will be a great risk that the Sameting will only appoint representatives from the five Sami municipalities, and that Finnmark County Council will choose from the non-Samian municipalities. Then I wonder what the Right answer is to this. How do you want to avoid such scenarios?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e222	I noticed that the SV's national meeting adopted an opinion on the Saharwi people's struggle in Western Sahara, but when it comes to the piece in this room, SV says no to be part of the historical work Finnmarkslaw is actually. I think SV should go in itself and consider what has actually happened in this case. It is very clear in the ILO Convention that if the indigenous people, i.e. in this context, giving its consent to a draft law submitted, it will be considered to be in line with international law. I trust that Finnmark's board of directors, consisting of county representatives and association representatives, will actually work together to achieve what we all want, namely an even better industrial development in Finnmark, a better safeguarding of Sami rights and the rights of others in Finnmark. That's why I don't worry about this governance model at all, because I don't think it will be used very rarely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e232	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e235	It's a historic event when Odelstinget today deals with the Finnish Law. Never before have we done, and probably will never again be able to do, such a vast disposal of such large land. Never have we been able to transfer that much power to the regional level. Never before have we been able to correct wrongs to such an extent by means of a law. Such work requires political courage and willingness to compromise. That also makes policy sense. There is reason to thank the President-in-Office for his approach and flexibility. At the same time, I know that without my own party's local handling of the matter, both by our politicians in the Finnmark Workers' Party, by our county rapporteur, Helga Pedersen, and by our merger group with Egil Olli at the head, we would have difficulty creating such a good policy as this really is. They all deserve a big thank-you. The Finnmarks Act is an important step in the process of recognising the rights of Finnmarks to land and water. The law confirms the existing rights of the group and declares that it does not interfere with collective and individual rights acquired by the group and others through the use of claims and age. We're moving from the theory of tolerated use to accept rights. For the Workers' Party, it was a matter of such a starting point, a fundamental settlement with a part of Norwegian history that Norway has little reason to be proud of. Same people have been suffering wrong for a long time. Discrimination has had many different faces. Until the first part of the 1800s, the doctrine of the state's unrestricted property rights in Finnmark was not particularly fundamental. In 1825, the Association of East-Finland wrote that ‘there is no State belonging to Almindinger in East-Finnm.’. In 1848, it was expressed by public Norway that nomadism does not confer property rights, and that together was to be seen as covert nomads. There is reason to put a big question mark in that Finnmark has been inhabited by a nomadic people, without fixed dwellings. It is difficult to describe clean-up operations as flattening. The oldest known Sami way of living, weighing, and various forms of fishing also provided a very close knowledge of nature in demarcated areas. Sami livestock farming in Finnmark is known from the back to the 1300s. In the second half of the 1800s, the state put considerable obstacles in the way of the rights of local residents. There are examples of Norwegian — and only those — acquiring land. One of the most serious abuses occurred in 1902. Then it was decided that in order to own land in Finnmark one had to be able to Norwegian, cf. 1902 Soil Sale Act and its regulations. One had to belong to the «custom population, who can speak, read and write the Norwegian language and use it for daily use». Such legislation stood paradoxically near layers until 1965. The common view of this provision is evident in the Samish and Social-Democratic candidate Isaac Saba's programme ahead of the collapse election in 1906. He said: ‘Does not the grass grow equally well in meadows, whether you speak Norwegian or Sami? Does it not mean that together must buy the land that has been from the old of their own?’ This occurs at a time when the nordics in the thesis are produced as the ‘formed’ with the superior social organisation, unlike the random transformation of the group and wild, raw and vile ways of living — a lower race, it was described as, both spiritually and physically. At the same time, the possibility of using their own language was made difficult. The language instruction from the Stiftsdirektionen in Tromsø in 1880 and the school law in 1889 established that school education was to take place in Norwegian, with few opportunities for Sami learning. At some boarding school there was a ban on speaking Sami even in leisure time, we know. This took place until the 1970s. 100 years later -- that's where we are today -- we have the opportunity to bring justice back. There is reason to distance ourselves from the research policy that has been pursued. The Labour Party wants Norway to be a leading country in the field of indigenous rights. More is needed here than consultation and referenda. We can't talk ourselves out of international law, and we don't want to. International law isn't essentially what you say or write, that's what you do. This can and will be a win-win situation for the entire Finnmark. Nearbyness to own resources, local management and development of Sami and Norwegian culture is something that everyone can benefit from, economically and culturally. It is also experience from other countries, such as Canada, that has taken the rights of indigenous peoples seriously. In the work of the Judicial Committee on the Finnland Act, the Labour Party has taken the initiative to develop an independent international assessment. This has given invaluable input into the further work. We also proposed that consultations be carried out with Sametinget and Finnmark County during the examination of the Finnish Law in the Judicial Committee. The idea behind this was that the state's obligation to consult with indigenous peoples also extends to the national Parliament. These consultations, actually a constitutional innovation, have driven the case forward and led to a greater political consensus on, among other things, the establishment of a Commission and a court of law to clarify existing rights arising from the age of use. In addition, the consultation process has given the county council and the Sametinget ownership of the law, which is important for the further management of the land in Finnmark. The Workers' Party has had an impact on important principles of the law. The ruling model of the Workers' Party, by an alternate majority for Outer and Inner Finnmark, is implemented for decisions on changing the use of outland. This ensures that decisions are taken and that no right of refusal is granted. I strongly disagree with the replicator Inga Marte Thorkildsen's description of this model of governance. I think the model can work well where it will be needed. This model of governance is democratic and is also necessary under international law. There will also be a guarantee that more people will accept Finnmark’s property as the common governance body for Finnmark, and that others will not be required to withdraw their rights from Finnmark’s property. This will help keep the most of the property together. Furthermore, it is important that the identification work now has a well-established framework in the Commission and the Court of Justice. I am pleased that SV will also identify the rights of all types and, in a note, support the creation of a commission. I'm sorry that when it comes to the piece, they don't do it in decision. We would like to move further in relation to coastal fishing rights in the sea. Maritime rights are severely weakened and require exceptional protection. Here is an example of the fact that the right of indigenous peoples can be a win-win for everyone. We had hoped to get an average of the minimum allowances for boats less than 10 metres. The decision that the Government will carry out an investigation as soon as possible of the rights of Samers and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark and promote a case on this matter for Stortinget is a work in which we in the Workers' Party should follow closely and be an active driver. Public access to hunting and fishing today continues under the Finnish Law. Ensuring public access to hunting and fishing is an important issue for the Workers' Party. We have also been given an advantage for an extension by giving the public access to pick crumbs for their own household. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a large majority are behind the law. This is essential for the legitimacy and effectiveness of the law. We look forward to seeing the results of Finland's county administration. The regional administration underpinned by the Finnish Law could also be a model for the development of regional governance in other parts of the country. Now a long process has come to an end. Still, there's a lot to start now. The big task is now ahead of Finnmark's population: how are we going to develop land and water for the common good? The law decision today should provide the best starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e294	Some have tried to create a picture of Finnmark being privatised if Samer and others are recognised. Fortunately, most social and newspaper commentators have distanced themselves from such an attitude. It is therefore surprising when the political commentator Hallvard Bakke, in the main body of the Workers' Party, the Newspaper, wrote an article yesterday and concluded that the Finnish Law ‘only a small part of the Sami population will benefit, while for many others it could mean a restriction on their rights as a result of the fact that areas will move into private ownership and no longer constitute a joint ownership of the inhabitants of the county’. Does the representative Storberget Bakke share the concern? And what does the representative think about the need for information on what the law actually involves?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e304	Now I have not identified the Workers' Party's rights over the Newspaper to the same extent as the representative of Greece does, but it is quite obvious that I do not agree with the description the commentator has in the Newspaper – rather on the contrary. What has been arduous in this debate, and which deserves much attention, is that it is today's regime, for those who wish for it, whether it be the Socialist Left Party or the Advance Party, who will be able to trigger the really great rights struggles – then with a much more costly and arduous process by turning to the ordinary courts. It's today's regime that can really help people feel that the rights are not being upheld, and you have to go to the courts to get them pulled out. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is precisely so that when we talk about the existing rights in Finnmark – and that is what we are talking about – the model of governance chosen will contribute to the greatest possible unity of this property, and that rightholders feel that it is respected, because they have the power of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e309	I thank the representative of the Workers' Party for the contribution and clarity in relation to what the Workers' Party stands for in this matter. The representative himself argued that public access to Finnmark is important for the Workers' Party. Then I had also believed initially and expected that perhaps public access would be maintained in the purpose section, as it stated in the draft purpose section. So now the Workers' Party has been involved and has taken the initiative to take the public out of there and place it inside Section 25. Then my question becomes to the representative Storberget: does he think that there is no signal at all in taking public access into the purpose section and then adapting it into a completely different paragraph? Isn't the purpose paragraph the one that gives the most obvious signal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e316	For the Workers' Party, it has been imperative in its work on the law to ensure that the public is given the same access as they have today. It is quite clear that the provisions given, as I also said in my main post, ensure this access. They even expand it, for example: relative to crumbs. It is quite clear that, with regard to the question of the purpose of the Finnmark Act, the wording chosen is much more concise in relation to what is actually the purpose of the Finnmark Act. But it doesn't change public access at all. At the same time, I must say that it is sad that the Progress Party has left its original line in relation to state property and now stands on a line in the Stortinget where you go for continued government rule. You leave the line that I see has been the credo of the Progress Party for many years, namely that you have to protect people's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e323	In the consultation we had in April, the representative Storberget stated that: ‘it would seem offensive, not only to the public, but it could also delude much of the legitimacy of, among other things. the indigenous people, the sudden withdrawal of a group's rights`. It has now been agreed to exclude the public rights that have been enjoyed so far in Finnmark. In other parts of the country, the Workers' Party has been committed to safeguarding the public interest, but in Finland this is not the case in the same way. Now we are talking about access, not right. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Storberget, how he has secured sanctions in the event that the public in the future will have a worse chance of hunting and fishing in Finnmark than today's legislation, in a situation where there is no shortage of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e333	I have to say that many times I have supported the SV's position on this matter, and not least on the fact that the debate is based on both local and central representatives. I just get to repeat: I believe that the law clearly continues the public's access to harvesting the land resources in Finnmark. It is probably soon time for SV to point out where in the law the public loses this access, since it repeats and repeats this issue all the time. I want to encourage SV to go into the law, look at what the reality is, focus on it, and maybe continue some of the thoughts you have in relation to making it human rights into the current law, and take it seriously, instead of constantly using this case to fish in touch with water and try to get new voters in areas where you probably don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e338	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e341	This is undoubtedly an important day for quite a number of people in this country. It is for the Sami population, it is for the rest of the population of Finnmark, and it is guaranteed also for the rest of the inhabitants of this country, given that they are actually at a crossroads in relation to legislation, at my discretion. There has been a great commitment both to and against the law. In that respect, I think I will take the opportunity to give tribute to the case rapporteur, who I think has done a solid job in the role he has had as rapporteur of the case, but also in the role of chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the way he has handled this whole process, because it has been challenging, has been raised above all doubt. So there's a lot of respect for the job that's been done here. If you go further in the extension of it, it's like – at least as I see it – that the law is sometimes controversial about how it is perceived, and what the intention and purpose of it should be. The answer to that is simply that it is about politics. Politics is conducted in this house, and politics has different purposes from a political point of view. This is also the way to choose their instruments in relation to solutions. And politics, of course, is about wanting to do something and get to something. That's why we're here doing politics. Processes in the various political parties lead to different policy solutions. It is also part of our democracy. If it was so simple as to have been perceived along the way that it should be when it came to this law, this should not have been a problem. If everything were as clear as some claims, we wouldn't have to have the debate, because then there would have been so clear leaders from the international team that we didn't have the freedom of choice. But we do, and that is why there is a debate here today. The majority have found one solution, the Progress Party has a completely different one. We believe that people are individualists and that they are different, and we need to take that into account. But we're not doing that through the proposal that's under Finnish law today. Special attention is now being paid to the creation of a specific law for Finnmark to protect the rights of the indigenous population. The question to be asked then is, could this be done by ordinary law? We would say yes, the majority means no. We're worried that this could lead to unrest in Finnmark, and none of us really deserve it. But it could be a consequence of today's decisions. We believe that there is a special treatment in what you are doing by granting special rights in Finnmark that you do not have elsewhere. The special treatment is unfortunately something that many people think is negative. Although some would argue that there have been quite clear expectations of the law, we have at least received many enquiries that have been negative to the law and its implementation. To a bit of the background for this: ILO Convention No. 169 was adopted in the United Kingdom on 7 June 1990. I would like to refer to parts of it as the then Council of State, Johan J. Jakobsen, said in that debate: ‘Convention No 169 on indigenous peoples is a preliminary cornerstone of quite extensive work. The Convention is the first throughout the United Nations system to act as a protection for approx. 300 million. members of different indigenous peoples. Many of them today live under very difficult conditions, under which fundamental rights are threatened.» For my part, I perceive it at least so that the primary thing at the time was to take care of those who had bad conditions. Then you have to ask yourself, is that how we feel that it is in Norway? Is that how we feel in this country? Is it true that the Sami people in Norway feel threatened, and that their rights are threatened here? Or is it the other way around, so that the Nordics in Finnmark are threatened by the Sami population in some way – or is it actually impossible to have a coexistence with today's law? Our answer to that will at least be no. It can't be so bad when we have a prime minister who repeatedly stands up and boasts that we're the best country in the world. So that's what we are before we have adopted the Finnmark Act as well. If it becomes the big rock that moves it, I don't know, but we'll see. As I said, we're concerned that the law can lead to division, if you adopt it as it exists now, and we think it's going to do it. That is why the majority will have a great political responsibility. The rapporteur has now indicated that it will be possible to explain carefully to the people there the consequences, and I think that makes sense. Because it's a fact, at least at my discretion, that what you're doing today, the majority of people are adding up to now, is creating something that almost becomes a separate foundation for Finnmark. It's such a significant change that we're a little surprised that the majority can't imagine adding this proposal of law to the referendum in Finnmark. It should perhaps be of interest to all the parties in this house to hear how the people up there stand for it. Or is it irrelevant, given that you're worried about what the answer might be? And if the answer were to be negative, would it be because the population doesn't understand it, or would there be other motives on the basis of which you might not want solutions here? There have been others who have commented on the composition of the board, three to three. At my discretion, of course, it means an overrepresentation on the Sami side, but there is no surprise in this case. Another element that might emerge is: What about the indigenous population living elsewhere in the country? Is this going to create precedent? Will we have similar assessments and the introduction of laws relating to Nordland, Troms, Trøndelag and Hedmark? In that case, we're going to keep fighting it, just like we're fighting this law. It's also a paradox, at my discretion: you have a discussion about the need to introduce this law, because it's so important. Few countries have ratified the Convention. If I don't remember correctly, 17 countries worldwide have ratified the Convention – three in Europe. Then you can ask questions after that: Is it the case that those countries that have not ratified it have treated their citizens worse than, for example, they have. We do? I don't think they'll do it. The opinion of the Advance Party is that we will now have A and B citizens in Finnmark, those who live there, and those who are visiting. They will have widely differing approaches to this, based in particular on: access to resources up there. Finnmark is a well-known destination, attractive to those engaged in hunting and fishing. Very many of those who run it on a large scale have been very concerned about what's going to happen, and you're afraid to be excluded. I guess none of us really want that, but the way we see it, it might be a consequence. I believe, even though the representative Storberget objected to it instead, that by taking the public out of the scope section, a signal is given to the public about this. The representative of Storberget explained that it was important since the law referred to something else, but at least I thought before the public was also important to the Workers' Party. I feel today that it is not. In our view, the consequences will be a shared Norway in relation to access and rights in Finnmark, and the responsibility of course lies with the government parties and the Workers' Party. I also record that it is suggested that there are racist attitudes out and out, undercurrents in this debate. I hope not. I hope we're all concerned about treating people the same way, and that we actually have a law in this country that facilitates that. The conclusion is that the Progress Party will vote against the law in its entirety. If it were supposed to happen here today that our proposal is going to fall, we want a referendum on the implementation of the law. The reason for this is that we believe that what we are doing here is to create discrimination, create a basis for concern and unrest in Finnmark, which we do not want. We want equality for the citizens who live there and throughout the country, and that is why we believe that what we are doing today will be a failure in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e377	The president asked whether the representative should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e380	Then I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e385	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e390	Why did the Progress Party vote in favour of ratification of the ILO Convention? What was the background for that? Why not follow up on the attitudes of that time and then what was announced? In the public debate on this matter, the party leader Carl I. Hagen also has very strong and very hard characteristics, including: in relation to the use of the concept of racism and apartheid, tried to fish in this affected water. I also hear the Ellings that you are against creating special rights. Please respond to Odelstinget now: What kind of special rights can you read out from this law that might be granted to the Sami or Norwegian population in Finnmark? What kind of special rights do you mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e395	I thank the replicator for the question. Since he is otherwise quite reasonable in the matter of following up, I think he has received the answer from party president Carl I. Hagen already on why we said yes that time, and why we say no today. We assumed at the time of the adoption of the ILO Convention, in 1990, that it could be done in the law in force. What we see today is a completely different regime, at our discretion, which means that we're going to go against the law. In the case of special rights, I mean, among other things. is that in years of low resource availability, resources shall be reserved to the inhabitants of Finnland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e402	After two years of silence, Carl I. Hagen wrote in an article in the newspaper: ‘For FrP, it is in any case not relevant to provide any groups, regardless of their origin, that others do not have.’ Hagen also uses the word ‘apartheid’ when the same person can acquire the property right to the land under his farm. Furthermore, Hagen Finnmark’s property is described as an ‘undemocratic and racist construction’ and writes that the law will, in reality, give joint control over large parts of Finnmark’s land. I have to ask the representative Ellingen: is Hagen speaking here on behalf of the entire Progress Party, and has the Progress Party House passed the fact that the law is ethnically neutral?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e412	Party President Carl I. Hagen spoke of course on behalf of the whole party when he said what he did. It's going to be the party's back, and it'll show the party's consistency today, among other things. by voting against the law. We still believe that to the extent that there is disagreement about rights to land and water in Finnmark, it can be dealt with by ordinary courts. We don't need our own special court, our own special order to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e419	The progress party has a history on Sami issues that, like the party's history on equality, gay rights and human rights, is a story to be saddened by. The Progress Party takes every opportunity to claim that any measure aimed at directly and indirectly at discriminating against groups is, in fact, discriminatory against the already beneficial group. The Progress Party, in a known style, claims that the Finnish law that is now being passed is discrimination against the Nordics, and otherwise the Sametinget should be abolished. The representative Sandberg has gone so far as to call the law of public racism. Can the representative Ellingen explain exactly which parts of the law are racist?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e424	I register that the representative of Thorkildsen is concerned with non-discrimination. Well, that's what we all are, even though we have different approaches to how it should be, and how to do it, in this case, among other things. So it's like there's an opportunity within the political system. And then we might disagree about something within that system, but we want equality for everyone, and we believe that it's not facilitated by this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e432	More than a year ago, the Swedish National Government adopted an opinion entitled ‘The Finnish Law — A Historical Opportunity for the Moving of Power’. The National Council stated that we saw the Finnland Act as an important part of the implementation of ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples, and noted that SV is concerned that the Finnish Law must provide a good basis for the ILO Convention to become a tool for ensuring indigenous rights internationally. Since many people have claimed that SV has had no common position in the work on the Finnmark Act until just before the release, I will refer more to the opinion. We said, ‘The overall approach of the SV/SG to the issue of the right to land and water in Finnmark is clearly expressed in the co-political platform of the SVs/SG: ‘In the light of international conventions and declarations and the country’s approval, the joint right to land and water has been established. This right must be exercised in cooperation with the other population belonging to the same areas. It is important to ensure joint governance and participation of decisions relating to Sami culture in general and Sami industries in the traditional Sami areas.’» The Governing Council further stated: ‘In view of this, the SV/SG considers that the basis of the Finnish Law must be, in particular, the international obligations of Norway in relation to gathering as an indigenous person and safeguarding the rights of the Sami people, as well as the recognition of the right of the Finnland population to control and manage the land in the county. SV/SG wants a single administrative body – Finnmark’s property – for the whole of the county.’... ‘SV/SG wants a separate dispute resolution system – for example in the form of a Commission – to clarify the rights of individuals according to the principles of ‘high’ and ‘age use’, so as not to burden people with costly legal proceedings’. The Swedish National Board of Directors was also concerned that the Finnish State Board of Directors should be composed of an equal number of representatives elected from the county council and the local council, and that the State’s representative should be removed. The assembly and assembly should be free to choose their representatives. The Governing Council further stated: ‘SV/SG therefore requires the assessment of salt water resources in relation to international obligations and traditional local use, with a view to ensuring that Finnmark people are given administrative rights over the resources in place.Marine resources are the main renewable resource to ensure Finnmark residence and employment. In particular, rights in coastal areas are important for the maritime population. SV/SG cannot therefore accept the termination of the treatment of the Finnish Law without any further clarification on this issue.’ We are very pleased with what has now become the majority's proposal for Finnish Law. In particular, this proposal concerns coastal fishing and maritime rights, which SV is also behind. SV is also pleased that consideration for Sami interests is underlined in the purpose paragraph. We support the partial incorporation of the ILO Convention in Section 3, which is also proposed by the majority. We are pleased that the practice of the Sameting guidelines becomes more balanced than many fears. And now I want to ask the representative of Storberget to listen carefully after: we think it is positive that active steps should be taken to identify existing rights in Finnmark. This is something we have made a request for. It's not just in the form of a note, as it's been said. In addition, we note that the governance model is to some extent consistent with the SV's proposal, but we are strongly critical of the model that has been used to change the use of land. It was, however, that SV could not join the majority’s position with the Finnmarks Act, and I will explain why. The first reason concerns public rights. SV has always been a strong defender of public rights — throughout Norway. We don't want anything near what many have formulated as ‘a Finnmark for Finnmarks’. Let me add quickly that the outcome of the negotiations between the government parties and the Workers' Party cannot be characterised in this way. But for us, the process related to the consultations showed that it was important not to contribute to creating doubt about the public position in Finnmark in the future. The combination of removing the public from the scope section, replacing «right» with «access» in Chapter 3 and weakening the public’s consideration in Section 27 helped to make it impossible for us to participate in a majority by giving up in the Committee. Let me take a few examples of statements that have supported SV's position. The rapporteur-general, Mr Pedersen, delivered his opinion on 2 March. ‘I believe it would be wrong to introduce into the Finnland Act a new principle in which public rights not only imply the right to move and to pick blueberries, to say that they are a bit clumsy, but also to have the right to hunt and fish. So, you'd have to figure that out, but not under the Finnmarks Act. There's a wrong place to take that debate. In addition, she said: ‘We cannot accept that the basic ownership role of Finnmark’s property will be weakened by the legalisation of public rights.’ The Pedersen thought it would be politically impossible, and not desirable, to restrict public access. It's a pleasure. At the same time, she could be interpreted as meaning that it would be possible to restrict public access not only through scarcity but also in other contexts. This SV cannot accept. We also do not accept the premise that the government's original proposal was a law of new rights for the public. In addition, we believe that there is reason to ask why one has at all been so keen to replace the word ‘right’ with ‘access’, if that is what many claim, among other things. the representative of Storberget, that the state of the day should be continued for the general public. The position of the assembly did not make the matter easier. Here there were very wide-ranging proposals for changes, with the removal of all references to the public from the law. They wanted it to be up to the Finnmark property to prescribe access to the county. The co-operative legal adviser, Laila Susanne Vars, said this in the consultation on 13 April: ‘If we believe that the Finnmark property will enter into the role of Statskog SF today, it must also have that regulatory competence, and one must also have confidence that, of course, the public should not be excluded. Something else I think would be an economic disaster for Finnmark's property, because that's where much of the income lies." SV does not want the public's right to harvest nature to be dependent on economic considerations. Unfortunately, we feel that the majority of the Judicial Committee, with its proposal, also partly builds its view on the continuation of current practices on economic considerations. We think that's unfortunate. SV cannot see that visitors to Finland and fishermen have been at the expense of reindeer farming, the Sami cultural base or the natural basis of Finnmark. On the contrary, there is enough space for everyone. At the same time, SV is concerned specifically with the protection of Sami interests. We believe that there are plenty of opportunities to make restrictions and interpretations of the law that will take care of Sami interests in any conflict situations. For SV, it is important that the Finnish law becomes fairly balanced, and that we gain an increased understanding of our international obligations towards the community, not the opposite. A Finnish law that is perceived to be highly unbalanced and how large a part of the population does not feel well-managed will not strengthen the ILO Convention. In addition, the ILO Convention provides room for local solutions. As Knut Storberget said in the April consultation: ‘Article 34 provides for the possibility to create national schemes precisely on the basis of established practices.’;» The Great Mountain stressed at the time that it would not only seem offensive to the public, but it could also deceive a lot of the legitimacy of, among other things. the fact that a group of rights is suddenly being deprived of. The second main objection raised by SV concerns the issue of a Commission for the identification of existing rights. SV also wants such a Commission, but opposes taking detailed decisions on how it will operate and what it should reveal, without having had a hearing first. The Commission proposal is very comprehensive, with a total of 19 paragraphs. All parties in Finnmark have requested a hearing. Opinions in the media have helped to spread uncertainties about the extent to which the Commission should be able to grant rights. In particular, opinions from parts of the reindeer industry and from the Sami legal team have created uncertainties about this. SV believes that this would be an advantage for the security of Finnmark’s people on the issue of mandate and legislation was sent to the hearing, but also considers this to be a question of democracy. SV therefore proposes that the Government be given a mandate to draw up a proposal for a Commission, which will then be consulted in an ordinary manner before the matter is brought before the Stortinget. The involvement of the Association of Advocates in the Judicial Committee after its release may support the need for such a hearing. The Association of Lawyers is of the opinion that, as proposed, the Finnmark Commission is likely to delay the process of clarifying rights for many years, which they consider to be very unfortunate in terms of creating peace in the area of rights within a reasonable period of time. It must be emphasised that they are not opposed to a Commission, whether or not they want a different variant. They also believe that it could be a problem to occupy both the Commission and the foreign court with professional habilitators. The most worrying thing about the Finnmark Commission is, in the opinion of the Association of Lawyers, that it should refer to a ‘judgment’ under Section 33 in the form of a report, without complying with normal rules of procedure for courts. They believe that if the proceedings had complied with the provisions of the Code on Disputes, this would have been a positive arrangement, but as the Association of Advocates sees it, the legal certainty of the people will not be sufficiently safeguarded by the procedure provided for in Section 32. The Association of Lawyers also has other important objections and concerns. The point is that we should take the time to hear different views on the matter in order to get a proper quality assurance of a process that is going to affect the whole people of Finnmark, and that is going through, among other things. signatures from large parts of Finnmark have shown that there is significant uncertainty about this issue. And I would like to stress again: SV is for a commission, but we believe that you should have ordinary democratic principles as well. SV believes that it is not a good thing to adopt the detailed rules for this Commission without having taken into account important objections and observations. Both municipalities, courts and organisations, such as Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association should therefore be given an opportunity to comment. The third relationship I want to draw out as a key point for SV in the treatment of the law is environmental considerations. SV believes it is essential to strengthen the requirement for sustainable use throughout the law. We propose that this consideration be included in more paragraphs. Furthermore, several of the areas currently protected in Finnmark are protected only by administrative decisions of the State Forest SF. These decisions are no longer binding when the base book home is transferred to the Finnmark property. SV believes that it is important to continue these safeguard decisions and will propose that all current administrative decisions be continued at the same level of the Finnish Land Government until a protective plan is in place for the land of Finnmark. We believe that a total review/monitoring of existing protective measures and the need for new protective measures should be undertaken. SV believes that there have been several suspicious proposals in the process that have taken place, in terms of the need for sustainable management. One example is the proposal for the management of the Tana watercourse. Here, the Sametinget proposed rules that led the rapporteurs in Tana and Karasjok to state the following: ‘The proposal could increase the fish pressure and threaten the river population.’ The proposal would greatly extend the fishing effort in Norway’s largest salmon rivers, and that at a time when the salmon population in the watercourse is at an historic low level. However, what we are very pleased with in the result that exists is that the environmental competence of mountain governments becomes part of the State's nature oversight. However, we propose that the requirement for sustainable use should be included in several legislative paragraphs, and we also propose reference to our international commitments in the field of the environment. At all, sustainability and environmental protection considerations have been taken into account as a constant requirement in very many of our legislative proposals. Finally, SV notes that we did not obtain any of our proposals relating to public rights, the consultation process concerning the Commission or the sustainability and environmental considerations. Nor when it came to the governance model, did we get a pass on our proposal in the end. We are also strongly critical of the model, which I have stated, in terms of changing the use of land. However, once our proposals have been dropped, we will vote in favour of the law as a whole. I want, on behalf of the SV’s big group, to be happy with the further cooperation, and we hope that Finnmark’s people with this will be able to see ahead. As the majority, all except the Advance Party, writes: ‘... the transfer of residence to the Finnmarks property means a clear declaration of trust to all Finnmarks regardless of their ethnic and cultural background’. I will deal with the suggestions that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e515	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e520	SV has always been a party to trust in issues of human rights, indigenous rights, ethnic minorities and international law. SV has been predictable in such cases both nationally and internationally. SV was on the side of the Alta fight. But what has happened? For the time being, the SV is asking questions about the ILO Convention. It is SV that opposes when Stortinget chooses solutions that are clear within the ILO Convention. It is SV that has created full confusion about the identification of rights and the establishment of a Commission. Here we are at the very heart of the question of whether we should respect the rights of indigenous peoples in Norway. The party has removed so far from its basis of idea that now SV politician Lene Hansen leaves the party in protest. She says that one thing is to be for the rights of indigenous people, another thing is concrete to do something. I hope SV will soon find back to their old self, but it is sad that they were not in the driver's seat in the historic hour for their own country's indigenous people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e529	It's right, as the representative Gjul says, that SV has a long tradition that defends the rights of indigenous peoples. It's a tradition that we're very proud of. What we believe in this matter is that the ILO Convention would also be served with a more balanced law at the end – as the representative of Storberget has actually stated in the consultations – because we believe that it would strengthen the ILO Convention and not weaken it, as we fear. I would also like to draw attention to Dørum's statements in connection with this process. The Government considered that the proposal, as it initially existed, supplemented by a Commission system, meets all the essential requirements of Ulfstein and Graver. SV went longer than far in relation to just such a starting point. First of all, we're for a commission. But we have also gone to underline the Sami considerations in the purpose paragraph. We have gone to include coastal fishing, and we have gone for a partial incorporation of the ILO Convention, in the same way that the majority has gone before. So it can't be said that SV is going to weaken the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e536	I note that SV chose to stand outside the broad majority that adhered to the law of the day, until today's debate. Now SV will subsidiaryly support the law. But there are some things that need to be solved. No Marte Thorkildsen was just concerned that a Finnland law that is perceived to be highly unbalanced, and how large a part of the population does not feel well cared for, as it is written in the notes, will not strengthen the ILO Convention. What is it about the draft law that you now want to vote for, which is unbalanced? What's unbalanced? In Finnmark Daily 19 May, Olav Gunnar Ballo says: ‘The signatories to the signature action against the Finnish Law are happy in their home state. They have understood that this will involve a privatisation of the land...» A few days later, central SV representatives in Finnmark go out against Ballo and say that their own wholesaler is providing pure misinformation by saying that the law will lead to privatisation of the land in Finnmark. Who supports Inga Marte Thorkildsen? Does she support the view that Finnmark will be privatised, or does she support local SVs saying that this is incorrect information?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e552	I think I made it quite clear how we believe that this law is unbalanced, both in the comments that we have had throughout the setting, and in the post that I held in place. It is primarily related to the question of the public. We see that the public with this law has been squandered. We actually share that position with hundreds of thousands of people in Norway, so-called acidifications, i.e. those from Troms and southwards in Norway. We also believe that the final decision on the governance model is very little luck. In general, we see that it is not fortunate to sneak together a paragraph the night before a surrender, and especially not such a long and comprehensive paragraph at such a central point, where the representative of Greece has always been strongly opposed to the model advocated by the Workers' Party, where it was thought that it was not contrary to the ILO Convention not to go for it, but now notes that this is important to be implemented under the ILO Convention. When it comes to the Commission issue, we want to have it consulted. But I think that's something I've explained quite well to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e561	SV wants a lot. They want a lot, both for the ILO, for the Samaritan and for the public. But they don't always make it go up, and they don't dare make a decision. Where there can be difficulties and resistance, they choose to say yes, both parts, and make it like they're for everyone. Nor can they agree to a compromise when they are invited to participate in a process that leads to results that both Finnmark County and Sametinget can accept. Now we have heard that SV subsidising may – as they have been encouraged by Finnmark – take the lead. And it is with some relief that SV has recorded the good results that the government parties and the Workers' Party have achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e568	I don't think it's so very negative to want a lot. We also note that we have large organisations in our backs in relation to what we have now chosen to do. This applies, inter alia, to: The Norwegian Tourist Association, the Norwegian Confederation of Hunters and Fishermen and FRIFO. These organise several hundred thousand members in Norway. I believe that it would have been possible to achieve a more balanced result than what has been achieved. We find that we got into the process the evening before the release, and there was no way for us to get through for any of the points for which we wanted to get through. Then it's natural, as a political party, an independent party that's not an attachment to anyone, that you take the position that you're going to stand outside. And then we have to take a seagoing assessment of whether we believe that the proposal now available from the majority is better than a continuation of today's state. In this case, the SV’s big business group, at least the majority, believes that it is an advantage to adopt what is, after all, the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e578	Finnmarks Act engages. The Finnmarks Act is aggravating. And the Finnmarks Act motivates. The law concerns all residents of Finnland and because it will affect the management of a substantial part of the district’s area. Until now, forest has managed 96 pst. because of the ground in the county. Now it is the end of ‘state domination’. An area corresponding to the whole of Denmark shall be transferred to the population of Finnmark and shall be governed by representatives from the county council and from Sametinget. This is a huge declaration of trust for all who live in Finnmark. The Finnmarks Act is aggravating because it involves something new and unknown. Uncertainty makes many of us irritable. The law is also aggravating because more people could think of other solutions, for example: the composition of the Finnish Land Management Board and the design of the treatment rules in matters relating to the changing use of land. But not least, the law has been aggravating because some – including wholesale representatives – have deliberately misinformed about the content of the law and its consequences. Those who have done this have contributed to creating unnecessary rift in Finnmark and therefore bear a great responsibility on their shoulders. But not least, the law motivates development, growth and cooperation in Finnmark. Finnmark is a state of great resources. There is little doubt that these can be exploited in a better and more targeted way than what is being done today. The goal is new jobs and growth in our northernmost part of the country. Now the Finnmarks are given the opportunity to jointly find sustainable solutions in favour of a common future. I hope and I believe that this will happen in close and good cooperation between representatives of the county council and the whole thing. So how are Finnmark's property to be controlled? Until now, what has been described as the state's land in Finnmark is transferred to the Finnmark property, which shall be governed by three representatives from the county council and three representatives from the Sametinget. The Governing Board shall play around and the Chairperson shall vote in double. In matters relating to the changed use of land, self-regulation applies. The assembly shall include, inter alia: develop guidelines to be taken into account in the assessment of, for example: shall be established a wind farm on the coast of Finnmark. However, it is important for me to clarify that the merger has not been granted a right of refusal in matters relating to the changed use of land. However, the rules ensure a thorough assessment of the impact of a change on Sami culture, sanitation, land use, nutrition and social life. So a few words about the identification of rights: the conflict over the extension of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse in the 1980s made it clear that in Norway there was a great need to clarify the state's relationship with Sami culture and legal status. After this dispute, there was a broad consensus that it was necessary to find out what place together had and would have in the Norwegian community. There was also a need for a more detailed identification of the specific legal conditions associated with Sami culture and activities in the areas of the community of traditional populations. The result of this recognition was the setting up of the Joint Court Committee, the adoption of the Law of Cooperation and of a Constitutional Decree on the State's obligations towards the Sami People's Group. A preliminary chapter of this work is written when we adopt the Finnish law today. The need to clarify the rights of groups to land and water in Finnmark is an important factor behind the Finnmark Act, but – and it is important to stress, not least in relation to the Progress Party – the law is ethnically neutral and does not give together any special rights to the land of Finnmark. A Commission is set up and a specialised court is established to identify the rights of co-workers and others to land and water in Finnmark. The rights shall be recognised on the basis of general principles of property law such as the use of age and the use of age. Such an identification mechanism is absolutely necessary in order for us to be able to fulfil our international obligations under ILO Convention No. 169. This equates the rights of use and ownership of Finnish marks to the rights of use and ownership of other Norwegians. The SV’s refusal to facilitate the identification of individual rights means that SV does not recognise the rights of use and ownership of Samers and other Finn Markings in the same way as the other inhabitants of Norway. Such discrimination considers the Christian People's Party to be totally unacceptable. The mapping of rights conferred by the Finnland Act has been identified by some as ‘privatisation of Finnmark’s territory’. There is at all no coverage for such a claim. First of all, I want to clarify that the Finnmark Act adds up to the identification of existing rights. The law does not grant any new rights. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the identification system only implies that the long-term use of land in Finnmark is now formalised by rights to individuals and groups. Everyone who knows the state knows that it's primarily about recognising collective rights of use. SV opposes the identification rules and wants them to be sent to the hearing. In the setting, the lot justifies this with, inter alia: to say: ‘A Finnish law that is perceived as highly unbalanced and how large a part of the population does not feel well-managed will not strengthen the ILO Convention.’ The Finnmarks Act takes good care of all Finnmark residents. It's not coverage to characterize the law as unbalanced. Moreover, it is important for me and for the Christian People's Party to point out that human rights for the protection of minorities have just been granted in order to protect against abuse by the majority. The fulfilment by Norway of these human rights cannot depend on the same majority voting. It is sad, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, that SV does not recognise the rights of one another in line with this fundamental principle. The Finnmarks Act recognises the fact that co-workers have acquired rights to land and water in Finnmark. The total failure of the SV, when principles of minority protection are put to a practical political test, clearly shows that the party is not willing to recognise the rights of indigenous people in Norway. In the newspaper yesterday, Hallvard Bakke points out that the judicial committee's review of the Finnish Law has been outstanding in the field of legal proceedings. He writes: ‘The Judicial Committee of the United Kingdom entered into a dialogue with the Sameting and ended up with a law that met the objections of the United Kingdom and which was quite different from the government’s original proposal.’ Hallvard Bakke is right that Stortinget's treatment of this matter has been special, but he makes a serious mistake when he claims that we have cooked – and only invited Sameetinget to present a recipe. For the first time in history, Stortinget has taken advantage of consultations during the handling of a case. The Committee has conducted four consultations with Finnmark county councils and with the Sametinget. This has been very constructive and has helped to lead the case forward. Recordings from the Sameting, from the county council, and not least from our county parties in Finnmark, have had a major impact on the design of the law. Cooperation with all of these has been very constructive, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for good cooperation. The Finnish Government's proposal for the Finnish Law has received a lot of negative mention. Some of the criticism was justified – even I, who represents a government party, must admit – but something has also been deeply unfair. Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum showed the power of action, and I would also like to say a great deal of courage, when he presented in the spring of 2003 a proposal for a law on the legal conditions and management of land and natural resources in the state of Finland. We're talking about a state council that in 1981 was fined to act against the Alta-Cautokeino expansion. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Dørum for his commitment and courage, and not least I would like to thank him for his flexibility and goodwill in the work of the Justice Committee on supplementing the Finnmark Act. I will end by congratulating all Finn Markings on the day and wish you every success in working together for a common future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e644	11,000 Finn Markings have protested – not against the original bill presented by Dørum, but against the process of the Judicial Committee that has created a different majority in relation to what was originally thought to be adopted. I record that Marthinsen places great emphasis on criticising SV for part of the debate that has been in public space. But of course, when 11 000 Finn Markings are engaged, there is a much broader democratic commitment on the ground. I would quote what FRIFO, the Free Air Association, said on 5 May: ‘The work on the new Finnmarks Act is to be completed with landfill treatment on 24 May. The preparatory work of the Judicial Committee has taken a dramatic turn. If the majority formula per Today's decision will be taken by Storting, we will face the most serious attack on public rights in recent history. [[3/5]] All previous limitations and limitations on public rights become de minimis in relation to what can now happen.» FRIFO has 500 000 members. Does Marthinsen think that these are debatable objections and that the public rights will not be affected by the decision to be taken now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e660	It is not difficult to create contradictions if you design incorrect information and ask people to decide on it. That's what's happened in this case. I think it's great -- let me underline it -- with the commitment to Finnmark. It is important that opinions are expressed, but as far as we have read these protests that have come in, they are protests against the privatisation of Finnmark. That's not what's happening. That's not what the law says. That is not what is adopted at Odelstinget today. That's not what's going to be decided in the Creation either. Nor is it what is going to be in the future law for Norway and for Finnmark at this point. On the basis of the question asked – are you in favour of or against the privatisation of Finnmark – I would like to see the person in this room who would say that we are going for privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e667	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e670	This is a historic day. The Judicial Committee's plural has with Ot.prp. No 53 as a basis, in active dialogue with the Sametinget and Finnmark county council, create a term such as is a principle that, through the long-term use of land and water, rights have been established in Finland. The rights are processed independently of ethnic background, and they also apply to other Finnland residents. Existing dishes, as well as other ones, should be mapped and recognized through a commission of their own and a special court. The objective paragraph is strengthened in relation to Finnmark's interests, but it does not exclude the general public, which should still be able to hunt and fish in Finnmark. The law shall be governed by the restrictions imposed by ILO Convention No. 169. The autonomy of Finnmark property in relation to other governmental powers is strengthened by the fact that the State does not select any of the members of the board. The centre party is pleased to record the involvement of the majority in the Committee in order to establish the relationship with ILO Convention No. 169. The Judicial Committee took the step of ordering an independent legal assessment in order to clarify it. The centre party is not represented in the committee. We did not participate directly in the work of the Justice Committee. We have been invited to hearings and consultations. Our vision comes through the comments of the municipal committee at the end of the vote. We're going to vote for the vote today, as it is from the majority of the Judicial Committee. Let me highlight some points. There's no such thing as a whole management thing. It is desirable that the Finnmark property has a holistic management. It imposes great demands on the individual board member, so that the board acts as closely as possible. Korkke Governmenten's legislative proposal or the decision of the Justice Committee solves the problem of marine resources in fjords and coastal areas. Seamen's rights must be strengthened. We are very pleased that the Government now has the task of distributing both together and others its rights to fishing in the sea, and that it comes back as a matter of its own to the Storting. We also found it important to clarify economic and administrative consequences in addition to what has already been done. It's e.g. reason for asking questions about Statskog, which is now losing revenue as a result of the creation of the Finnmark property. It would be quite obvious that these lost incomes should be covered by covering them by others who depend on State forest. The creation of a Finnish Outreach Court must not go beyond the land change rights in the country. The capacity of existing land change courts is already under heavy pressure, and it is sometimes very long waiting time. I hope that the Minister of Justice will clarify how this has been done. And then I just want to end by congratulating the Central Party on its work so far and so much the happiness of the dialogue which must clearly be between the Government, which will follow up the decision that is being made today, the Sametinget and the Finnmark County Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e691	The treatment of odelsting today by the Finnish Law is a historic milestone, for Norway as a nation and especially for the Sami people and the Finnmark population. For the Norwegian state's relationship with the Sami people, 2005 will be a historic year. Firstly, the Stortinget has endorsed the Government’s proposal for a replacement scheme for co-workers and women due to the loss of schooling and the previous research policy. Secondly, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, on behalf of the Government, has earlier this month agreed with Mr Sametinget on a consultation mechanism on matters of concern to the Sami interests. Thirdly, today Odelstinget is dealing with it in my opinion the most important issue: the Finnish Law. The work on the Finnland Act has its background to the need to clarify the state’s relationship with the Sami people and the need to recognise the right to use and use natural resources in accordance with their culture. In particular, the dispute over the extension of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse around 1980 led to this need being placed on the agenda. And I have to mention that I, as the then representative of big business, was one of 9 in this room who voted against giving money to send the police to Alta before the Supreme Court had spoken in that case. That's why this case, and this day too, is special in many ways for me and the party I represent. The Joint Committee was therefore appointed in 1980, during the battle over the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse. The committee has provided several extensive investigations, which have provided an important basis for the government’s work on the Finnish Law. For the Government, it has been a central assumption that the Finnish law should be ethnically neutral in such a way that the legal status of individuals should not depend on their ethnicity. The management of land and water in Finnmark must include all residents in the county. It has therefore been important for the Government to have the same rights for Sami, ethnic Northmen, women and other population groups. The government presented its proposal for Finnish Law two years ago. The Judicial Committee and the Grand Duchy shall have great honour in the thorough examination of the matter and in the ability to find new forms of proceedings as required by the case. There has also been a significant development in the last two years on the part of the Government. I would like to stress that the Government fully supports the majority proposal in the position of the Judicial Committee, and reminds for the sake of order that, through my letters of 6 April and 14 June 2004 to the Judicial Committee, the Government indicated a good deal of adjustments to the proposition from the previous year. I mention the need for an orderly process of monitoring existing rights, a board of directors without a state-appointed board member and a clearer distinction between the right of Finnish markers and the public's access to hunting and fishing in Finnmark. I would like to go a little bit further into some aspects of the present majority proposal. Finnmarkseidom, Finnmárkkuopmodat in Sami, will take over the positions of Statskog SF in Finnmark. The Finnmark property becomes a legal entity of its own which is governed by private law. Compared to public authorities and other private parties, Finnmark property is subject to the same rules as other landowners. Finnmark property is not a public authority body. Some exceptions have been made from this point of view. The main exception is that others have been granted rights or access to hunting and fishing, etc. on the land of Finnmark. Furthermore, the Public Service Act and some parts of the Administrative Act shall apply. A Commission and a specialised court are hereby established to decide on existing rights to land and water in Finnland. The Commission and the Court of Justice shall base the monitoring on the national law in force. Some have expressed fear of a step of a right claim. To that I would say that it is, of course, open to anyone to claim. It has not been said that the claim will be made. It shall be determined on the basis of the law in force following a conscientious examination of the facts of the case. I remember identifying rights regardless of ethnicity. In my opinion, it is difficult to find a good reason to oppose an ethnic neutral identification of rights that already exist. In my opinion, the majority of the committees have found a good model for this process with a Commission to identify existing rights on its own initiative and a specialised court to settle any disputes that are not otherwise resolved. At the Commission stage, the level of conflict could then be low, while at the court stage a general procedure of extensive free legal assistance would be provided. The consolidation shall provide guidance on the significance for the Sami interests of the changed use of outland. Land resources are of great importance as a natural basis for Sami culture. It is very valuable that this context is further defined in guidelines from the Sameting to which public authorities are obliged to deal. The most important aspect of this scheme is perhaps the awareness-raising element. On the other hand, the law does not regulate the weighting of Sami interests in relation to other interests in the final decision on the case. This is clear from the wording of the bill and is underlined in the motives. After the government presented its bill, we had a comprehensive debate on international law. It can then be concluded that the bill itself was not contrary to international law, but that it was not sufficient to fulfil Norway’s obligations under international law. I agree with the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs that, with the adjustments proposed by the majority, the proposal fulfils the obligations of international law towards the Sami people with regard to the country and fresh water in Finnmark. As regards salt water, I refer to the majority's proposal for a request decision on the rights of Samers and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark. The government will loyally and responsibly follow up the decision. As far as conditions outside Finnmark are concerned, I refer you to the ongoing work of the Joint Court Committee. The committee has launched a comprehensive historical research project. It is expected to complete its work around the turn of the year 2006/2007. I will then return to the Finnish Law and international law. The number of committees is in favour of the law applying to ‘with the limitations’ resulting from the ILO Convention on Native Peoples and Tribes of Independent States. There is a limited incorporation supported by the Government. This provision would mean that if the law were to prove to be contrary to the Convention on a number of points, it would have to give up. On the other hand, the Convention shall not be used to extend the Finnland Act. I am not going to spend a lot of time on the various minority proposals made in the setting. However, I would like to point out that the proposal of the Advance Party for a referendum in Finnmark ignores the fact that this is a national matter and a matter of minority protection. Part of the SV's various proposals for a different version of the Finnmark Act was based on the proposition two years ago. A lot has happened in the last two years that it's not too late to go inward. And it is with some wonder that I record that it is possible to overlook that a government council on behalf of the Government sends a letter to the Stortinget in response to written questions in April and in June last year, where the government, to say it in popular Norwegian, takes self-criticism in order not to be sufficient on the grounds of international law. It is clear that if you then rewind the debate and ignore these documents, it is possible to wish for a different law than what has been proposed. If you think so, you get to polemise against the government's proposals, you have to argue against what the government is making, you have to settle with the international law considerations. But how do they emerge? They come out after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' judicial department first goes through the original bill, then you go through the independent assessments made by Ulfstein and Graver, and then you find that additional measures are necessary, not to comply with the UN conventions, but to comply with the ILO Convention. If you go into a debate and ignore these letters from the Government to the Stortinget, the debate can of course have a completely different character. But it's not possible to ignore it. I repeat: in popular Norwegian, this is a self-criticism. Why is that? And why is it necessary? Well, that's of course because the case is special. So we're testing an incorporated convention, which, to put it bluntly, doesn't have very thorough legal sources in Storting's treatment. The committee setting is very much needed, to put it that way, and the debate does not give many leads. Then a government – and then the Justice Committee – must do its utmost to deal with this properly. We cannot treat ourselves as if it does not exist in relation to international law. We cannot behave in relation to international law as if it were just choosing freely on the shelf that suits us. It follows obligations under international conventions. It is not essential whether 17 countries have adopted this Convention. Once we've done that, it commits us. The Norwegian government, in which I sit, has taken that commitment inward, and I believe that the Justice Committee has also done so – through its thorough and comprehensive majority position. In my opinion, the SV's proposal for a request decision on a protection plan for Finnmark seems unnecessary. As far as I know, there are only two so-called administrative protection decisions that have not been replaced by public protection decisions under the nature protection law, and the two areas have already been assessed by the environmental protection authorities. I have been informed by the Ministry of the Environment that the need for others is covered by the processes that are already underway and by the systematic nature protection work that has already been carried out over several years. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Finnish Law will provide a good basis for both the protection of the natural basis of Sami culture and the further development and value creation in Finnmark. I am convinced that the future will show that these considerations can be combined in a good way through the cooperation model that the law provides. I am pleased that Finnmark County has unanimously supported the majority proposal of the government parties and the Workers' Party. I am also pleased that the Central Party, which is not represented in the Judicial Committee, supports the majority proposal. Let me add: One of the best things in Norwegian culture and one of the best things I've learned to know in Sami culture is the ability to work together to find solutions when you want to. I think the process of this law has documented such a will. There have been difficult balances, there has been a demanding process – but the will has been there. I note that, unlike the Progress Party, SV wants a Finnmarks Act. I am pleased that SV says that they will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the law. But then SV has to make a choice. They cannot follow a line where they almost double communicate with one set of representatives to argue against the legal basis here, and then formally vote for the law. If you vote in favour of the law, you also have to include the obligations and the consequences. But I'm glad that in almost eleven hours – to put it that way – you choose to vote subsidiaryly for the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e750	What makes me take a line is actually the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo's posts. I think that raises the question of information, that you need information about what is really in this legal text. Will the Minister of Justice and the Government ensure that the inhabitants of Finnmark are adequately informed about what it says? I think Olav Gunnar Ballo might have a point in at least having good communication and hearing the people. Then it is also a little strange – when it was suggested that one should choose the heaviest form of hearing groups, namely consultations in Stortinget – that Ballo said to the newspaper New Time 18 October 2003: ‘This is an institutionry’.’It is not a good thing and it is unnecessary. The important thing now is to look at the content of the Finnish Law and get the matter settled.’ I'm making this up because I think it really represents a vision that clearly shows that we need information about both the process and the content of this law. Will the Government ensure that sufficient information comes out not only to representatives from Finnmark, but also to citizens there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e762	This says a lot about Norwegian social conditions. With the initial training I received, I did not get knowledge of the state's unabated land in Finnmark until I was 36 years old. I'm not going to add any more, but I got a steep adult training curve. [[Laughter]] Then, as a precaution, I have tried to follow the principle that it must be good to show people confidence in managing their own reason. We are talking about the people of Finnmark collectively – absolutely everyone who is there. The representative asks if we should provide good information. We're going to do that. We're not going to run polemics, we're going to spread information in a proper way – in the two languages that we're going to do it in – and make sure it gets out. In the case of individual representatives, they shall deal with the debate in which they participate. I'm basing myself on the fact that the level of formation is evenly distributed between the parties. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e773	The President's remark is that it's good to learn. It won't help if the curve is steep.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e776	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good report, with experience. It's always a sign that what you stand for is important. At the same time, the Council of State was involved in a theme that I was also involved in my article, namely: How many – or how few – have ratified ILO Convention No. 169? It is possible that the number is not important, but there is nevertheless a mark in it – a recognition of that convention. Since then, countries such as the United States of America have Canada, which has a large indigenous population, has not recognised ILO Convention No. 169, the Minister of Justice, for example. that they have poorer legislation in relation to their indigenous population? Or does he think that it is possible, in ordinary law, to meet the needs of the indigenous population?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e784	Canada I know only through reading and some scattered visits. It is clear that it is possible to sort out the relationship with minorities and indigenous people in a different way than under the ILO Convention. Canada has done it. But the crucial point is that Norway has incorporated this convention into its legislation, and then we cannot act as if we have not done so. We've done it. So, of course, the Storting can think about how it acts when it accepts conventions, but it's a completely different debate. We have done so, and since we even have a legal source, from 1990, where – as far as I can understand – there is nothing material, it presents a challenge for the future. It is the challenge that the Government has tried to deal with, as the Justice Committee has dealt with, that international law scholars have dealt with, and that the Finnish State and the Sameting have dealt with. A joint effort has been made to solve something that has been difficult and demanding. If it is true that Conventions are not to be adopted, then there is a free debate – which can be held at any time and anywhere. But this convention is here, and then it's absolutely the point that we're not called Canada. We're Norway, we've taken in the convention, and we have to act like we're taking it inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e793	A steep learning curve can be experienced by anyone, both before and after you end up in this house. I will allow myself to ask the Council of State if he will contribute to mine. Firstly, it has in this debate, among other things. from the representative of Marthinsen, it seemed that sending something to the hearing means that you are against it, while I have always believed that you send things to the hearing because you are for it and want help to make the design of a system as good as possible. I then record that we disagree with the fact that the Commission proposal is so good that it should be adopted today or that it should be consulted. So SV wants to send the Commission proposal to the hearing, because we want a commission and a best Commission. If we had been against it, we would of course have suggested to vote it down, and nothing else. I wonder if the Council of State can contribute, for as he speaks, it almost sounds as if he believes that SV is against a commission. Then I need some adult education: Is it like this in the reality of the council that you send things to the hearing because you're against it, or because you're for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e804	My opinion is that neither the representative Hall Arnøy, the representative Thorkildsen nor the representative Ballo need adult education. On the other hand, it is obvious to me that there are tensions in the party SV in this matter. It's an honest thing. It is clear that we will vote in a subsidiary way. I'm a member of a party, so I'm not familiar with party politics tensions. I also know all the grips you often use to get away from them. I have understood that SV is for basic principles. I have also realized that – to keep to the story of a large book – they return in time to the guest messenger. That's good, that's good! What I said, and it doesn't depend on adult education, is that you have to decide which line you want to follow. Do you have to follow the line that is based on anxiety and fear, or do you have to follow the line that is based on public information, follow Luther's catechism, take his next in the best sense, then interpret him, and try to make sure that the body that is created can work together for the whole of Finnmark and then bring with it learning? That's what I said, and it's not really about public education or a steep learning curve. It's about choosing the main policy line when this case is finished here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e811	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e814	Very many of today's speakers have started their speech by saying that there is a historical legal process Odelstinget implements today. I want to start my post the same way. It's clearly a historic event when Odelstinget today deals with the Finnish Law. A majority of the Grand Duchy of Justice has gathered on a Finnish law that facilitates cooperation and value creation in common in Finnmark, and it is an important part of the process of clarifying and ensuring the legal status of co-operatives in Norway. An important principle behind the law is equal treatment for all residents of Finnmark. The Labour Party has contributed to the process, and we have achieved a significant impact on our views during the work on this Bill in Stortinget. We believe that it has also contributed to clear improvements to the legislative proposal. I must also be allowed to say that I am proud of the courage and strength shown by our politicians in Finnmark, both in the Finnmark Workers' Party, in our County Council Group and in the Sametinge. It has cost and strength to resist when it has blown at worst. Cooperation with the government parties has been constructive, and the elected bodies in Finnmark, the county council and the Sameting have been important co-players. It is therefore good today to note that a large majority in the county and a unanimous assembly have joined the proposal to be adopted by the Odelstinget today. It's been a long process. It has gone over several decades — since its appointment in 1980. Many here know that there have been significant uncertainties in this process. That's why it's very good that today we have a clarification and such broad agreement behind the bill as it actually is. Finnmark is given a historic opportunity by the Finnish Law to become ‘lord of its own house’, as we have sometimes said. Upon the entry into force of the Finnmark Act, the Finnmarks take over 95 pst. of the land areas of the county. It is necessary to clarify the rights of the county. The creation of Finnmark’s property and the establishment of a system to clarify rights make the situation foreseeable in the future. Finnmark is a country that is particularly rich in natural resources, and through the Finnish Law, the Finnmark population is controlled by the state’s resources and thereby opportunities for development. For the Workers' Party, it is important to strengthen the rights of indigenous peoples, and it has been important for a new Finnish law to fully comply with international law. We want Norway to be a leading country in the field of indigenous rights. It is the Workers' Party's belief that today we are adopting a law that also enforces international law. We believe that the establishment of the Finnmark Commission and a special court to identify rights to land and water in Finnmark is in line with our international obligations and on the basis of Norwegian law. I would also like to stress that new rights should not be granted in this process – which may have given the impression to some part of the debate – but rights that have been worked out due to long-term use, etc., should be clarified. The legislative changes and the governance model help to ensure that the law does not result in an alleged privatisation of Finnmark. The governance model of the Workers' Party, by an alternating majority for Outer and Inner Finnland, is implemented for decisions on the changed use of land. This model of governance is democratic and is also necessary under international law. It will also, in our view, guarantee that more people will accept Finnmark’s property as the common Finnish market governing body, and one will avoid that more people will require to withdraw their own rights. A lot of people have feared it. It is also important for me to stress that the public's access to hunting and fishing today continues in the Finnish law. Ensuring public access is an important issue for the Workers' Party in all its contexts. It has also been stressed in this matter. So the Labour Party assumes that the law that we are adopting today continues to provide access to hunting and fishing that the public has until now had. Now begins a new time for Finnmark. The foundation for the successful management of the state's resources is now being laid. It will be important to know that a large majority of the Grand Duchy is behind this law for the future Finnish State Administrative Board. In conclusion, I would like to say that it has been important for the Workers' Party that a new Finnish law should be so clear and so indisputable in accordance with international law that it would stand in the light of history. I believe that today's bill will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e844	Finnmark shall remain under Norwegian State control. We're going against the Finnish Law because we're taking people seriously. That is why I have to guarantee that the Coastal Party will vote against the Finnland Act when it is to be voted on here in the Odelringet. I would like to agree with the rapporteur in Måsøy, Mr Olsen of the Workers' Party, when she claims in a post in the Alta Post that it is 'denial for people' when the majority of Finnmark County does not take into account the fact that 11 000 Finnish markers have signed the appeal against the Finnmark Act. She also writes that the signatories represent 20 pst. by the persons entitled to vote, amounting to 40 pst. by those who cast their votes in the last election. We can agree or disagree on how the proposal of the law has finally become, but to present it as a historical moment is a strange perception of democracy. Never have we seen such a movement and such an involvement in Finnmark. Our county politicians didn't care about it. It's a pretty straightforward message that 11,000 people signed. They want the voices, but they don't care what they mean. I agree with her. The majority of the county council didn't care about the 11,000 signatures. But the Coastal Party's representative did, and so does the Coastal Party's big-time representative here. The majority of the population, the government parties and the Workers' Party, don't care about that 40 pst. by the voting rights of Finnmark have protested against the law. The majority of the population believe that the Finnmarks are misoriented and disorientated. They believe that the Finnmarkingen did not understand the matter. Maybe it's right. For how would the Finnmarkingen and others obtain information about the Finnmark Act? Not even the county representatives were given all the information about the matter before the evening before the matter came up in the county of Finnmark. Only then did the Coastal Party County Representative receive documentation on more than 100 pages for reading. The Storting Committee has, throughout the process, excluded the case from the public domain. Then it is not relevant to claim that the Finnmarkings do not understand or know what the matter is. In view of this strangeness, the representatives of Storberget, Helleland and Marthinsen have gone out in the newspapers, as they did in the newspaper last Sunday, claiming that the opponents are presenting falsehoods, and accusing them of misleading the debate. The rapporteur, Mr Olsen, from the Labour Party, takes the situation on the grain when she writes: ‘We have seen extremist results related to the Finnish Law as having claimed Sámi property rights for the whole of Finnmark’. Further: ‘No one protests when Sami representatives harass others. Probably because they would be called racists all of them." I agree with her. For what happens to those who reject the Finnmark Act because it imposes a discrimination based on ethnicity? The representatives of Storberget, Helleland and Marthinsen are out in the newspapers calling the argument for unity. The representatives of the Sametinge call the critics racists. Reality is the opposite. In this case, it is together, Storberget, Helleland and Marthinsen who act undemocratically against the Finnish markers when they want the Odelstingen to adopt this law, which the Finnish markers see as an attack on Finnmark's population. Ingalill Olsen's position contrasts with the Finnish Labour Party representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. He's very pleased. He believes that lawyer Geir Haugen, who for several decades has led a number of cases in order to secure Sami rights, not least in terms of the reindeer industry in Finnmark, is wrong when he believes that the Finnish law will lead to claims for private property rights over large parts of Finnmarkswirdda on a continuous basis. The Haugen, as a lawyer for the reindeer trials, is of the opinion that the rightful owners get the whole of Finnmark. How can he say something that breaks so fundamentally with what the figures for the Finnish Law say? The Haugen believe that we will experience that a number of cases are raised for the Finnmark Commission in the wake of the Finnmark Act. He is absolutely sure that in a few years we will have a completely different property map in Finnmark than today. Where the State is today the landowner — and these are the same areas as the Finnmark property is intended to take over — new groups or individuals will be guaranteed ownership. A number of similar requirements will be reported from different areas of Finnmark, says Haugen. However, according to Schjøtt-Pedersen, this experienced and experienced lawyer for the rights probably does not understand what the matter is about. I believe that the Stortinget will introduce an ethnic law based on the incorrect translation of the term ‘indigenous people’ in ILO Convention No. 169, a law that will send Finnmark into a chaos of conflicts and lawsuits, and that will end up privatising the general public in Finnmark. That is why I want to vote against the Finnmark Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e880	The President would just like to point out to Mr Bastesen that, regardless of whether you refer to or quote from newspapers or anything else, the President has a call not to use the word ‘racist’, either in this debate or in other debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e883	This is also a matter of sometimes discussing the vision of democracy. Is democracy synonymous with majority rule? No, at least it is not enough in a democracy that you have a so-called majority rule. One must always ensure that one has minority rights in place, the individual rights in place, and that there are limits to what the majority can do to the minority. And in some contexts, as in the speeches of the latter, there could be a basis for stressing that democracy is more than just that the majority decides. This is, as many have said before me, a historic day, in the form of the right to land and water and the clarification of the legal situation that has been lying like an unsolved knot since we received both the Sameting and the Constitutional Law in the 1980s, today find a solution, a solution that a majority in the county has said yes to, a solution to which the Sameting has said yes, a solution that a broad majority of Norwegian political parties will say yes to. It is not the case that everyone has got through for everything. It is not that the whole thing has been implemented for all they have wanted. It is not the case that the filling unit has been passed on for all they have wanted. Nor is it the case that the Right Party or the Workers' Party or any other party forming part of this majority has been implemented for all they have wanted. Why isn't that so? Well, because this is just because a compromise has been made based on different approaches to the problems and different approaches to individual areas. The compromise itself contains elements that mean that everyone can stand for it and that it is sustainable over time. It is therefore not possible to say that this is neither an ethnic law, nor that special groups have had an impact on their affairs. This is a law that will create good, balanced governance conditions in Finnmark in the future, and provides the basis for doing so within the international obligations that this country has assumed. We could have a discussion about whether we should have taken on these or not. In its power investigation, the government has invited us to a debate on the extent to which we are going to take over new conventions and legislate new rights. But the interesting thing is that some of the parties that have questioned this in the debate are those who have been most pleased to incorporate new international laws and regulations into Norwegian legislation. In my opinion, there are some problematic things that have happened in this process. Against those groups that seem to have been a lot of secrecy, and that it has been difficult, I'm going to admit that this has been a difficult process. I am impressed by how the Justice Committee in Stortinget has managed to bring the matter forward in a way and in a way that is completely unfamiliar and poorly adapted to the work normally done by Stortinget. When committees in the United Kingdom have a responsibility to carry out preparatory committee work and negotiations are closed, it is difficult to adapt it to the consultations and traditions that you would like to have and follow in order for the processes to be open. I think the Justice Committee has done a good job. I think, on the other hand, that there is reason to question how some parties have tried to use the fact that someone has taken on the leading role in providing solutions, in a party political game, and has not even shown their solutions in this process. One of the problems that have arisen during the consultation process is that both the case rapporteur and the largest opposition party have been open oppositions, while other parties have chosen not to be so. This has contributed to the difficulty of the discussion. It has contributed to the failure to assume responsibility as the leader of the processes, and it has contributed to the fact that this debate has become significantly more unhealthy than it could have been, including in Finnmark. Based on the process that has taken place, it is clearly revealed that it is important that the Government initiates the work and conducts consultations. We have established a regulatory framework for consultations between the State and the Sameting on matters of concern to the Sami interests. There is an agreement signed by the undersigned and the Sameting and the Sameting President, and the Sameting shall have it for processing and finalisation at a later date. It will provide us with a better framework for the follow-up to the work of the Justice Committee in many ways. In this context, it is important to identify forms of consultation that do not distance other groups entitled to be heard in the same processes. There will also be a job to do in the future. The government has contributed with its support that the law should be expanded with an active identification of the current legal situation, in the interests of international law, but also for the benefit of all those who have acquired independent rights in Finnmark, regardless of cultural and ethnic background. It is not that this law grants new rights, there are questions about a process to identify rights that exist and that it is good to clarify. The size has contributed to constructive consultations and to the fact that the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have joined forces in the Judicial Committee on a common position, which, in turn, provides the basis for both the county council and the Consetation to adopt the law now. It is essential that there is no doubt about this, because it is these elected people who together are given responsibility for the new Finnmark property, to bear the decisions we are going to make in the future in a good and cooperative spirit. The Finnmark Property Act opens up cooperation in the state, both on industrial development and on resource management. As jointers – I would like to stress that this is what they are – for most of the reason in the county, both the Sameeting and the County have a new role, which opens up too many opportunities. The Finnmarks become masters in their own house. But they are also given a task of living up to this, because it is clear that in some areas there will be conflicts of interest that need to be resolved. The State leaves its prime ownership role but remains responsible for compliance with international law obligations and for the management of resources in line with national policies and legislation. Within these frameworks, however, there are great opportunities for value creation to which Finnmark property can contribute significantly. Now the Finnmarks themselves face the challenge of exploiting the land so that values are created and that they remain in Finnmark. The public outside Finnmark has legal access to hunting and fishing in line with what has been practice so far. There has been a lot of discussion about the identification of existing rights. I would like to stress that it is in order to fulfil the obligations of international law that we initiate such a process. But I'm a little surprised when, in a debate in Finnmark, people on the left-hand side feel that today's system is much easier, where you have expensive and expensive processes against the judiciary – that is, it's just the kingdoms of Finnmark that are going to have the opportunity to identify their rights, because they can afford to run the process, while others are not going to get it. Then I am a little surprised that in a way it appears to be a political and principled position. These identifications of existing rights are based on national law. The identification is not based on obligations under international law, but on the basis of our national law, and will apply to Samer and all other Finnmarks on the same line. It's the use that creates an independent right, not who the user is. On the basis of new case-law, there is reason to expect that several independent rights of use can be established on Finnmark’s land, but it is unlikely that there will be a strong breakdown of ownership of most land in the county. I would like to stress that it is important for us to take care of these minority rights, and that is the age of use that is the principle, a principle that has been in Norwegian law for a long time. I have been amazed at parts of SV's flirting with the desire to allow these minority rights to undergo a referendum. In this way, I sometimes think that left-wing populism and right-wing populism have met in this debate in order to take advantage of the basis for concern about the changes that are taking place. The law is also designed to ensure that Finnmark’s property as a landowner takes into account the interests and needs of its users, so that no one feels compelled to promote claims for independent rights. It is noted internationally that the Finnish Law has been established through consultations and that it has been endorsed by a unanimous assembly and a large majority of the county council. A broadest possible majority in the Grand Duchy of law will confirm that in Norway we have achieved something difficult in many other countries: ensuring the rights of indigenous peoples to land and traditional use in a fair manner, which opens up new value creation for the benefit of all in Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e917	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e920	It is, of course, a fundamental misunderstanding if the Council of State believes that a referendum should be aimed at finding minority rights in Finnmark. The ordinary courts must of course decide that. What a referendum had to be clear about was whether this new law, the Finnish Law, which is under consideration today, was the right one. That's a little interesting, because I heard earlier today that the Minister of Justice in a way rejected a referendum on the grounds that a referendum could never stand above the legislative assembly. I would like to hear whether the Minister of Local Affairs shares the Minister of Justice's view of the referendum and the leading referendums, if any, had to give. Then I see that the Council of State is occupied with democracy. The referendum alone is not democracy. But my challenge to the Council of State is: Is it democracy that the ethnic idea is put above the democratic idea? Is it democracy that those who stand in the same number will be worth more than those who stand outside? Is it democracy that Finnmark will be run by two central powers, one in Oslo, the Stortinget, and one in Karasjok, the Sametinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e927	Now, the demand for a referendum in Finnmark has emerged from an action called ‘No to the privatisation of the Finnmark public opinion’, which is not based on the question of voting against the Finnmark property law, but in a referendum where the basis is to say no to the identification of the rights already existing on the property side. That it may be possible that there is something else the Progress Party thinks we should have a referendum on, is another question. However, the debate that has taken place in Finnmark has focused on the issue of identification first and foremost. And that question, I think, is clear to deprive a minority of rights in our society. These are rights that we've recognised throughout South Norway. There are rights that we have recognised in large parts of the reviews we have had with regard to who has rights of use and property rights relating to land in all other counties. But it hasn't been done in Finnmark, and it's time we did it, both because it's part of our international legal obligations, and it's just because it's time to get rid of all these issues and get to land with a proper administration also in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e935	I know well the actions of Finnmark's people. It is not primarily a requirement for a referendum, but it is primarily a requirement to amend proposals for legislative changes that have been submitted by the government parties and that create uncertainty about the future ownership of the land in Finnmark. It's what the government has caused itself. Trond Helleland said to the Evening Post on 11 March: «We are talking about normalising the property situation in Finnmark. It is not natural for the State to own 96 per cent of the land in a State.» Then the right signal that they see no danger with this privatisation. Sven-Roald Nystø followed up by saying that he “does not see anything wrong in the privatisation of Finnish ownership”. The type of reactions in a population are healthy reactions, not to the Sami, but to the fear of losing a common-law that has been achieved in a good way and that has been a significant quality by living in Finnmark. I have to say that I am surprised at how little government parties have taken seriously that kind of reaction. The fact that so many people react so strongly to it should not be done by the government parties, because it depends on the support when this is going to work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e947	If it is that there has been a joint ownership that has been managed well over a long period of time, it means that all those who have participated in the joint venture have established rights of use or that it is not possible to claim individual property rights attached to it. I think the debate on the consequences of this has been a interrelationship of left-hand propaganda against so-called privatisation, on what property rights and rights of use are really about, and what it might mean for Finnmark. Of course, it has had a certain ethnicity. You can just read the essays, the newspaper posts, etc., which says that now it's together that's going to get all the rights. Despite the fact that this is an ethnic neutral law, you can see that it has been played on those conditions. We don't have to close our eyes because it's been played on it. I think it's nice that the representative Ballo has been in this game. I think it is strange that no one in SV has been more rigorous about the principles they are now going to vote for – with a subsidiary vote, I understand. It kind of surprises me, because I think it looks more like the Progress Party than it looks like SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e956	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e959	Just to try to correct some of the things that the Council of State responded to in my reply, when it was about the action that wants a referendum in Finnmark: in VG today, it is clear which requirements, assumptions and objectives this action had. The five main arguments against the bill point out: ‘1: The law facilitates extensive privatisation of land and water in Finnland.’ That's right, that's what the government council was about. But in point two, the initiator of the action said: ‘2: The ethnic idea is put over the democratic idea. 3: Those who are in the same number will be worth more than those who are outside. 4: Finnmark will be run by two central powers; one in Oslo and one in Karasjok [[Size]] [[Composite]] So this action was more extensive than what the Council of State was trying to suggest. In the Progress Party we share these concerns, and we share them in particular when Ragnhild Nystad states in the same newspaper – in paragraph 5 of her main arguments for the proposal: ‘The legislative process also requires State institutions to consult more closely the Finnish State Consulting on matters relating to Finnmark.’ Then we are at the root of the fact that the Progress Party is critical of the law. I've heard a lot of people talk about this being historic. Yes, it's historical in the sense that we've never taken such a great deal of action in terms of granting rights, even though the Council of State of Solberg actually pointed out that there's no need to give any new rights here. It's not about granting any new rights, it's about a process to identify existing rights, says State Council Solberg. Then my question is, why do we need such a comprehensive process to find out who has rights in Finnmark? Well, it's with the background that there's been uncertainties and conflicts in Finnmark for a long time. I don't think that those conflicts will be any less of that we create more institutions to look for the conflicts. In addition, we have general court proceedings, where individual rights could easily have been found in Finnmark. I want to repeat: I think – and no one has denied it either – that the Finnmarks Act is on the table here today, has a background in one thing, and that is finding rights for a minority in Finnmark, i.e. together. That we're using so much process and so many steps to find rights to water and land, etc. in Finnmark for a group on an ethnic basis, the Progress Party in itself seems to be very concerned. Although the majority repeatedly hide behind international law and behind the ILO Convention, it is not that it should be the only right thing. I register in the VG – also today – that the representative Storberget actually points to it: ‘For Ap, it is important to strengthen indigenous rights. We want Norway to be a leading country in the field of indigenous rights.’ But there is nothing to say that Norway is becoming more of a country for indigenous people after the decision of this law. Not long ago, the Municipal Committee had a longer stay in Canada. They have not ratified the ILO Convention. I expect Canada to uphold international law in exactly the same way as Norway, but no one has criticised Canada for it. In Canada, the indigenous people had the same opportunities as most people in the country. The only difference and only thing they did in Canada when it came to the rights of indigenous people was that they let the indigenous people go where the processes were carried out. It was almost rejected by indigenous peoples themselves in Canada, they would not have processes for their own rights, their own courts and their own governance. They would have democratic processes to figure out the same rights as most people. That is what is the basis for the critical view of the Progress Party on the law under consideration. I think that the conflicts will not be less in the future with this law, but maybe they will be raised, so that we can make them visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e999	It is both a historic and a joyous event that now facilitates the management of Finnmark property, which becomes a clear local and regional administration. International law is important, but it's nothing to hide behind. International law is enshrined both in the regional relationship with Finnmark County and in the Sametinge. That is why all the talk about democracy is well taken care of by all those who have to be concerned about democracy in the legislative proposal. An important consideration behind the Finnmark Act is the development of economic activity in Finnmark. Finnmark is a state of enormous resources and a great potential for growth and development. The clarification of administrative responsibilities and rights conferred by the Finnish Law facilitates investment and entrepreneurship in the county. However, it is important that economic development takes place on the basis of a sustainability principle and that environmental considerations are given considerable emphasis. Nutrient development in Finnmark will, in some cases, require acceptance for a change in the use of land. The balance between e.g. the establishment of a quarry and the rationale for reindeer management could be difficult, and in some cases the reindeer interests are likely to weigh more heavily. But it is important for me to point out that the Finnmark Act does not confer any right of refusal on the parties and the Sameeting in matters relating to the changed use of land. In cases where there is considerable disagreement as to whether or not to allow changes in the use of land, a deferred veto has been granted to the group under certain conditions. The case may be referred to the Sametinget for an opinion if two representatives of the Board of Directors of the Finnmark property justify their opposition with regard to the Sami interests. But the final decision is made on the board or by the King. For my part, however, I have great faith that discussions and negotiations will bring about consensus solutions. Finnmark won't be served with steep fronts! Finnmark also has great opportunities in the tourism industry. The country's amazing nature, culture, hunting and fishing opportunities constitute an important source of income for the county. The rights of the general public in Finland have been widely debated during work on the Finnish Law. When the government parties and the Workers' Party agreed to withdraw the reference to ‘generality’ from the purpose paragraph of the Act, this was because the Finnish law specifically regulates the consideration of the inhabitants of the county and the consideration of Sami conditions. Section 25 regulates the rights of the general public to natural resources in the state. Here the public is given the right to hunt and catch small game, fishing in barbed watercourses and handcuffs and the plucking of mullets. The position clearly states that the majority of this requires the continuation of the public’s opportunities for hunting and fishing in Finnmark in line with current practice. The opportunities for hunting and fishing by the general public in Finland will be an important source of income for the county in the future as well. This not least ensures that we also ‘shrew’ e.g. shall continue to be able to delight us over salmon fishing in the Altavas Strait. The law has specific rules on distribution in the event of resource scarcity. It will not be possible for the Finnmark property to reserve maturing for its inhabitants. If there is a need to regulate the onset of maturing, this should be done in a way that takes into account all relevant groups — including people living south of the Sinsen Cross. During the work on the law, both Finnmark county councils and the Sametinget have argued strongly in order to regulate the rights of Finnland county councils in the sea. It cannot be excluded that international and Norwegian law provides for special consideration to be given to fishing in Sámi areas in the design and practice of fisheries management. However, in view of the current situation, it has not been specifically established how these considerations can be addressed most effectively and appropriately in the current fisheries management. However, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to ask the Government to investigate the rights of Samers and others to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark. We also asked to investigate and assess the possibility of a minimum quota for boats below 10 metres. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a matter of this should come to the Stortinget as soon as possible. The Finnmarks Act is a law of optimism and belief that cooperation for the common good is possible – not least in Finnmark. I am sure that Finnmark County and Sametinget will choose representatives of the Finnish property management who have the will and the desire to go to the flock. I wish with this board the best of luck with a very important work!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1033	This is a great day for Finnmark! Finnland's population is entitled to control most of the land in its own state. When the government presented its proposal for Finnish Law more than two years ago, the strong reaction was in Finnmark. In the interior of Finnmark, the reactions were strong that, in the opinion of many, the government proposal would open up 400 million. citizens throughout the EU/EEA region should have the same rights as those of Finnmark. Outside the Sámi core area, there were strong reactions to the Government's proposal that the Sameting and County Council should have equal influence in the disposal of land areas, including in municipalities where very few are registered in the same population. In Finnmark we have a very close relationship with nature around us, and we have a strong sense of justice, a strong sense of community. We don't want the system that's in the East, where private landowners run over the ground, and where one has to ask first one landowner for permission to use the land, and then the next. I am therefore pleased that thousands of Finnmarkings have said clearly that we do not want a privatisation of the land in Finnmark. We want the most consistent and common management of the land. That's what the Workers' Party has been fighting for all along. For the Workers' Party, giving special advantages to an ethnic group is completely out of the question. We want a Finnland for the whole county's population. However, by taking care of the whole population in the county, consideration is also given to the Sami population. There are three main reasons why we need a new law for the basic government in Finnmark. The most important thing is that the Finnmarks themselves should be able to have the land. Why should the local population in many other communities be able to control their generalisations, while the land in Finnmark is to be governed by the state? The second is that the property situation is unclear. When the state declared itself to be the owner of the land in its time, it was said that the previous use of the Finnish marks did not provide a basis for rights. This applies, inter alia, to: the traditional use of the Sami population. Today the court is perceived in a different way. The understanding of Norwegian law by the Supreme Court has changed. International law has been amended, or, to say as the Government, it is under current law ‘difficult to conclude with certainty that the ownership of the country can be fully maintained’. Thirdly, international law states that an indigenous person has the right to influence the disposal of the land in areas they have traditionally used. And let me immediately clear a common misunderstanding. Outlaws don't mean that together necessarily came before the other nordics. The indigenous population means a minority of its own, who were present in the area before the borders between the countries were drawn. Therefore, there is little doubt that property conditions need to be clarified. It could in principle have happened by submitting the case to the Supreme Court, which decided how to govern Finnmark. But there is no good solution, especially for those of us who want uniform governance in Finnmark. It must then be better to arrive at a comprehensive solution through legislation. It is likely that any rights acquired through traditional Sami use will be strongest in the inner strata of the county. Some have therefore proposed dividing the management of the land in Finnmark into two. The Labour Party disagrees. It is important that people in Finnmark are treated as much as possible throughout the county. The Labour Party has therefore been quite clear that we want one property and one administration. We have also opposed a system based on our own governance in some rural areas. The rights to the land in Finnmark have not been identified. The establishment of the Finnmark property is based on the expectation that there may be some such rights linked to traditional Sami use and that these are the strongest in Inner Finnmark. This in turn implies that it is assumed that the governing body of the Finnmark property cannot be constituted in such a way that the Sami interests become minority in those areas. The Joint Committee resolved this by a model in which they proposed that four of the board members should come from the county council and four from the Sametinget, and that leadership should go around. The government, on its side, has proposed a 3:3 distribution. This means that decisions cannot be taken if all the representatives of the county council have one view and all the representatives of the county council have a different view. So the three from the Sameting, or the three from the county, could then block a decision they disagree with. This is obviously unfortunate in the view of the Working Party. In my view, decisive emphasis must be placed on upholding the principles of majority rule. It should normally mean that the majority of Finnmark's government was elected by a body representing the entire population of the county. However, I have recognised that this must be balanced against the interests of international law, especially in the core Sami region. At the same time, outside the Sámi core region — along the coast of Finnmark — this conflict of principle is most difficult. In several coastal municipalities, there are less than 1 pst. of the population of the same population. For me, it has therefore been a fundamental democratic issue that the Finnish State Administrative Board must be set up in such a way that the majority of the population also chooses the majority of those who will take the decisions on changing the use of land outside the Sami core area. I am therefore pleased to have been able to contribute to a model of governance that respects both one common administration, respect for international law and the principle of majority rule as far as possible, while at the same time contributing to decisions being taken. Norwegian law states that if you have used a property for a long time, you will be entitled to use it in the future. Yes, you have been driving for so long that you have actually believed that you owned the area, used it as if you owned it, and the real owner has not claimed his right, you can even – under certain conditions – have acquired ownership. This is Norwegian law. It also applies in Finnmark, regardless of who is the owner of the land. Of course, all the parties to the Storting agree that this principle should apply even if the property is transferred from the State to the Finnmark property. The question is how to determine any rights issues. Such questions will normally be referred to the courts. Another possibility is that those who consider that they have rights of use or ownership should be able to apply to a Commission which is trying to settle the case before it is sent to the courts. Examination of matters through a Commission will contribute to cleanliness and simplicity. In addition, under international law, the country has an obligation to identify where indigenous people have rights. This, of course, is not a privatisation of Finnmark. It does not establish a single right which is not already governed by Norwegian law. Is there any reason, then, to fear that there are many such ownership rights? No, no, no. In Troms and Nordland, such a commission has been working for years. In one single case it has been fixed property rights. The governing bodies of the Finnmark property are precisely composed to ensure that rights can be attached to the traditional Sami use of the land in Finnmark. In fact, international law states that indigenous peoples have the right to influence the disposal of land in areas traditionally used. But such influence hardly only serves as a real plurality, as the Sameeting now gets by changing the use of land in Inner Finnmark. Therefore, if rights related to traditional Sami use are identified and their management is excluded from Finnmark’s property, a significant premise for the organisation of Finnmark’s property will be gone. It is therefore not possible to justify first the composition of the board which is now adopted on the basis of possible unidentified rights, and then add the management of proven rights to other bodies. Then the whole structure rakes. I understand that both the Sameting and the County want one administration for the whole county's population. I then assume that the management of any rights identified is also added to this common administrative body. In this context, too, the Labour Party’s governance model is the best guarantee to keep land management together in one administration. In my view, the Governing Board should carry out its activities in the most ordinary manner possible. In its assessments, it shall weigh many considerations. Particular attention shall be paid, inter alia, to the consideration of Sami interests. In principle, it is natural for the Sami population to clarify the Sami interests to be taken into account. A minority of the Governing Board has been granted the right to promote a number of minors if they consider that such considerations have not been taken into account. The majority may bring the question to the attention of the ministry. It would obviously be unfortunate if the work of the board were to be influenced by the use of minority anchors. I trust that the board is composed of sensible people who reasonably weigh different considerations. At the same time, board members should impose a very high threshold on themselves for the promotion of minority shareholdings. This is one of the mechanisms that many of us are very sceptical about, and that need to be evaluated when the scheme has worked for some time. The Finnish Law, adopted today, has not only the support of a majority in Stortinget, it also has a majority in Finnmark County and the Sametinge. So it's a law that supports the bodies of the people of Finnmark and the Sami people have chosen to represent themselves. I note that, with the exception of the Advance Party and the Coastal Party, there is broad agreement on all the basic principles of the law. The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left all agree on the following: A Finnish law shall be adopted.The property shall be transferred to the population of Finnmark.There shall be one joint administration for the whole county.The rights under Norwegian law shall remain.A Commission shall be appointed to clarify private and collective ownership and rights of use.The composition shall not be able to refuse decisions on the board of property. That should therefore be the basis for a broad consensus on the law. With the support of the majority voting, both in Finnmark County and in the Sameting, it is a pleasure to be able to recommend consent to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1114	Today's debate on the Finnish Law is a historical debate. There has been a good debate, but there has also been a debate marked by some confusion. Because there have been so many ambiguities and misinformation in this case, it was more important than ever that all parties today made it clear where they stand in this case, and what they want for Finnmark's future. I was hoping for that. Unfortunately, the Socialist Left has not helped to clarify its position. On the contrary, SV has today created more confusion in this matter. It's not just us from the government parties and the Workers' Party who are sitting with this feeling. Also SV's own people, SV's own people in Finnmark and one of SV's most distinctive Sami figures, Lene Hansen, are sitting with this feeling today. That's exactly why Lene Hansen is resigning today from his own party. She resigns from the Socialist Left Party in protest against the Party's handling of the Finnland Act. Today she says to Nordlyssen that Kristin Halvorsen has shown a silence and an accident that is very disappointing. She further believes that her party comrade Olav Gunnar Ballo neighs up under fear and suspicion of the Samir and the Sametinge. She also says in this interview: ‘One thing is to be for the rights of indigenous peoples. Another thing is to do something in concrete terms." The ambiguities of the Socialist Left Party today have contributed, are more. First, they decided today to vote in favour of the law. It's kind of alarming, given that they're just as contrary to the law as it is today. It is also wrong for the representative Thorkildsen to say that SV has never been invited to participate in negotiations. The representative knows this too well. Because what this is about is that today's Socialist Left Party has had a historic opportunity to take an active part in these negotiations, but obviously they don't want to take responsibility, and they are now, rather, behind a majority when indigenous people's rights are at stake. It is sad to see that SV in such an important case folds away when things become difficult. It is our job as politicians to find solutions and take responsibility, even when solutions can be unpopular and difficult for someone. The Finnmarks Act is an important part of the process of clarifying and ensuring the legal status of the group. A main principle behind the law is equal treatment for all residents. The position of the SV and the Progress Party means that they do not recognise the rights of use and ownership of Samer and other Finn Markings in line with other residents in Norway. Such discrimination is considered totally unacceptable by the Right. In the setting of the law, SV writes: ‘A Finnish law that is perceived as highly unbalanced and how large a part of the population does not feel well-managed will not strengthen the ILO Convention.’ It is not only the Right who is disappointed with SV in this matter. Ragnhild Nystad, Vice President of the Sameting, expressed it in the following way in one of our last consultations: «But I also note that SV will not fully reveal the rights of indigenous peoples. Thorkildsen just said that only rights of use should be revealed, and is it such that the people should be referred to the courts? Are the indigenous people to be referred to the courts for the purpose of revealing their rights? SV is unclear about this with the Commission, so I conclude that SV does not recognise the rights of indigenous people at all." The Finnmarks Act will take good care of all Finnmark residents, and that is not coverage to characterise the law as unbalanced. In addition, for government parties, it is important to point out that human rights for the protection of minorities have just been granted in order to protect against abuse by the majority and cannot depend on the consent of the same majority. I find it difficult to understand that SV will not recognise rights together in line with this fundamental principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1143	Now that Odelsting's treatment of the Finnish Law is drawing to an end, I think we can sum up today's debate that there have been many articles that have helped give us a historical look back at the background of the law, how the work on the law has evolved, and not least how contentious and emotional parts of the discussion in Finnmark have been. In all kinds of decisions, it is important to have an overview of the case, both on historical matters and on the facts today. In this case, I know with certainty that we will not proceed by looking back. In this case we have to look forward, and I will therefore use my post to talk about the future of Finnmark. From now on, the Finnmark Act will lie as one of several essential elements for the development and innovation of Finnmark youth in the coming years. At the heart of such a starting point is the fact that the population of Finnland has a very close relationship with nature and with the resources of the county, with outland resources where the use has been inherited through generations, regardless of whether it is the mountain, the wide, the coastal landscape, whether it is fish in the sea or cloudberries and mosquitoes. The proximity of Finnmarks to nature is something we should respect very much. It's part of our identity. The population of Finnmark, the population of the county, which we like to say is a wonderful cocktail of Northmen, Samers, women and Russians, have always seen the ground and natural resources of the county as a common resource, which we want to manage for the benefit of the entire population. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that the population be jointly guaranteed the right to and control the land and the natural resources of Finnmark. It will be in this creative, exciting community of our youth to continue the traditional basic industries such as agriculture, fishing and reindeer farming, and it is in this creative field of tension that will be created in the future for mineral extraction and for oil and gas in the north. But first of all, we have a big job to do. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with other departments, to draw up an information document on the realities of the Finnish Law, and it must be an information document for the Ministry of Language - an information document which, in simple words, sets out the realities of the Law, which states that public rights are not undermined, which says that Multeber, Hunting and Fishing are still a universal right. Unfortunately, there has been so much bad spread, negative disinformation in this case that it would be irresponsible not to provide people with accurate and easily accessible information, what was called public information in the old days – simply public information. The young people who, on this basis, want to create a common future in Finnmark have a sun-clear right. They must be given the very best starting point for success, and in order to succeed, all ethnic majority and minority groups must have the same right, have the same basis and have the same opportunities. My starting point today is reconciliation, brotherhood and sister solidarity and coastal and inland hand in hand. From the pulpit of the Stortinge, I greet the county council and the Sametinge. I wish Finnmark luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1164	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1167	SV today presents a comprehensive, comprehensive legislative proposal for a new Finnish law, a proposal that is in every way clarifying the view of the party. There is no doubt about what SV wants, and those who want to find out, can read it, paragraph by paragraph, with comments on each paragraph, elaborated in an excellent way by the party's judicial numeracy. The ambiguity one seeks to create is created by other parties in order to so doubt SV's vision. There's no doubt about SV's vision! I must also say that it is quite a matter for the Minister of Justice to make the issue of whether to adopt a Commission now, or whether to ensure a democratically anchored consultation for something that the Government originally did not propose, about a question of for or against international law. I would ask the Minister of Justice to clarify whether he really believes that the difference between defending international law or not is whether or not the Commission is now being adopted, or whether or not to ensure that the authorities concerned are given the opportunity to express their views. There's one thing that surprises me a lot. The majority of the Judicial Committee has consistently used the views of Graver and Ulfstein, highlighting their demands for international law and saying that it is therefore absolutely necessary to make changes in relation to original proposals. But then you see what the Ministry's own advisors have said. Carl August Fleischer writes in his report on Graver and Ulfstein's assessment: ‘In my view, there is no basis for drawing such conclusions. In my view, the draft Finnish Law is good in international law, and in particular these Treaty obligations’ — the ILO Convention, with special emphasis on Article 14 — ‘requires. They premise the authors and, in particular, the opinions they express regarding the nature of the ILO Convention. 14 are unsustainable in essential respects.» What is obtained from Fleischer is a continuous slaughter of the assessments made by the two lawyers. He does not do so because he is not concerned about respecting the obligations of international law, but because he is concerned about doing so in a balanced way, so that there is no conflict in a population and thus threatens the rights of the indigenous population. He writes: ‘The primary thing should be what the real considerations lead to, to see if it really should be so that international law excludes such an overall and reasonable solution, which in the event of a situation must have the consequence of making a certain adjustment to what would otherwise appear to be the most appropriate and best possible solution.’ That's what SV has done throughout, and we've done it in such a way that it's completely, completely unreasonable to make claims, as the Council of State has done here today, that SV's proposal should not be in international law. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify in what areas he considers according to his own assessments and according to the assessments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that the SV's proposal is not in international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1186	It is 25 years after the battle for the construction of the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse that we are now dealing with the Finnish Law. For me personally, the Alta case was perhaps the first political conflict case I remember. As a teenager, I had great sympathy for the job left-wing people did then. The Alta case provided the basis for a thorough investigation into the Sámi rights through the Sámi Committee. The Bondevik Government presented its draft law in April 2003. After that, there has been a thorough treatment, and there has been a lot of debate, not least in Finnmark. The debate has now ended with a compromise between the Labour Party and the government parties to which both a unanimous assembly and a large majority in the Finnish state council have joined. It is gratifying that the Central Party also supports the compromise and that SV supports it subsidiaryly. The left has noticed that some politicians have easier to support international conventions in principle than to take them inwards when implementing the conventions in Norwegian law. The Finnmarks Act is a milestone for samers, while respecting the public's rights to fishing, hunting and multing. For the Left, who was strongly involved in the Alta fight, there is a historic decision that Odelstinget is now going to make. Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has much of the credit for the Finnish Law now coming into port. He brought it up, and with the good help of the Ministry of Local Affairs, members of the Justice Committee, in particular case-rapporteur Trond Helleland, the County Council of Finnmark and the Sametinget, the law is now in place. For a small party like the Left, it might have been more comfortable rather to push this case and care a little bit more about lightweight, populist matters without difficult political balances and with simple reasoning that can be sold to tabloid media. But once we put a statesman in the State Council chair, it's kind of not the way it's done. History will measure us by the job we do in just such things as this. Nothing really important in politics is simple, and it is such a matter as this that separates the clint from the wheat. In its time, Odd Einar Dørum fought the Stortinget against the Alta expansion. Now, in the Left, we can rejoice that the Alta fight, after all, was not in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1200	All Finnfields that are not reindeer farmers – that is, almost all Finnmarks – lose the opportunities they have had for hunting and fishing ever since together came and settled in Finnmark. The concept of ‘indigenous’ in ILO Convention No. is central to the work of the Finnland Act. 169. What about the IWC Convention, the CITES Convention and other conventions that Norway has ratified, but which we are gradually opposed to? Why should the ILO Convention be so important in relation to other Conventions? One important point for me is that dating does not belong to this convention, because they are an assimilated and accepted part of Finnmark's population with already at least equal rights to other Finnmarks. It is not based in ILO Convention No. 169 to grant rights to co-workers and to people with Sami anomalies in Norway who do not have the other Finnmark population. We in the Coastal Party believe that in this case it is designed rights that are not based on international law or in historical facts. We are witnessing a law that is taken from a collective bad conscience among central politicians and a reality that does not exist. Therefore, large parts of Finnmark, regardless of political affiliation, have reacted as strongly to the Finnish law as they have done. The law is conducted by activists in search of private property rights and central politicians who forget that there are other groups of Sami people who are not being heard, and residents in the community with at least as long traditions as group members. The sea-sams, of which there are three times as many as reindeer-farmers, are not included in the pre-worked law either. They are kept out, in the same way as the vast majority of Finnmark's population, who are not reindeer farmers. The consequence of the Finnland Act is as follows: Finnmark will experience a fire of conflicts. Several major law firms in Oslo have already made strategic decisions to bet on being commissioned by the parties to the conflicts that will arise in the wake of the Finnmark Act. Would anyone here say that the law offices make such an assessment because this law is so good that it will be conflict-free? In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the provisions of the ILO Convention cannot be understood as a requirement to give ownership and possession to the areas to which indigenous peoples traditionally populate, as stated here, but as the figures of the law refuse to acknowledge that they are committed. Odelsting must reject the proposed law. We need to find other and more democratic and credible ways to find a comprehensive national solution to the property and management problem in Finland. The Coastal Party will vote against the Finnmark Act! Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1221	The Minister of Justice allowed himself a historic look back when he described how he himself was in the hall and voted against military intervention in the battle for the Alta-Cautokeino watercourse. There were SV and Left and some Central Party outlaws, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party that were opposed at the time. And it's a historic day, because much of the injustice that was then committed by the majority of the Norwegian population against the Sami population started the process that partially ends today by recognising the rights of indigenous peoples in Norway. There are two main conflicts. The Coastal Party and the Advance Party say they don't want any Finnish law, despite the fact that the Progress Party ratified the ILO Convention – probably with a hat under their arm, they didn't think it had any consequences. It's a debate that SV is not part of. SV believes that we should have a Finnish law, but we disagree with how the law of the seventh and last was balanced by the bulk of the population. What has been our main contradictions has been about public rights, and it has been not about whether or not a Commission should be set up, but about whether or not the matter should be heard. As such, SV’s position today lies closer to what was Dørum’s starting point when he presented the law two years ago, with the change that SV also believes that a Commission should be set up to exercise existing rights. I am very pleased that all the speakers in this debate today have just emphasised that this law does not create new rights, but is going to exercise existing rights. But our concern goes on two things: One is that through the process of working with the Finnish Law, changes have been made in several paragraphs that have weakened the wording of public rights. The majority say that they are going to be carried out as today. However, it is not strange that questions are raised about this when, for example, the Chairman of the Committee. parallels Finnmark wide with Hardanger wideda. Anyone who has a certain knowledge of Hardangervida knows that it should not be a great example in this matter. The second is, it's important to get into a process that doesn't create unnecessary conflicts. It is not every day that the Storting adopts 19 paragraphs that have not been at the hearing – but that have started in a committee – it would have been a better process if you had been able to do so. But let me end by saying in the debate: in SV we have no desire to fire up against those who now want to use this law to legitimize a privatisation that we fear. Now it is important to pick up everything that has been said in this debate against the fact that this is a law for further privatisation, just to underline the part that is about what is now going to be put in place is the rights that indigenous peoples after the claimed and historical age use have accumulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1239	The representative Halvorsen must like to draw himself to a three-minute post if there is more she will have said!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1242	I see it, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1247	It was just an indication that the speaking time had been used.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1250	A broad majority of Finnmark county councils have appealed to the Stortinget to gather on the Justice Committee's majority proposal for a new Finnish law. The SV in Finnmark County has also appealed to their own group to vote for the majority position. I am therefore surprised that the SV’s biggest representative from Finnmark is still trying to get the most distance from what his own party has joined, a distance that is actually not real. Olav Gunnar Ballo was elected to the Stortinget by his storming protest against the fact that the Sametinget and the county council would have equal representatives in the government of the Finnmark property. Today he is voting for the Sametinget and the County Council to have three representatives each. Olav Gunnar Ballo has raised Finnmark's population by claiming that a commission to clarify the existing rights in Finnmark would mean the privatisation of Finnmark's territory. Today he is voting to set up such a commission. Yes, SV's main speakers have underlined how positive SV looks at such a commission. Olav Gunnar Ballo has contributed to a picture of the fact that the ILO Convention on the Rights of the Aborigines is something he is opposed to. Today, he is voting for the ILO Convention to establish a framework for the work of the Finnmark Property. Olav Gunnar Ballo has contributed to an image that Sametinget was going to adopt guidelines that tied up the handling of matters in the board. Today he is voting in favour of these guidelines. What remains is that Ballo is against Finnmark's population taking advantage of a year's scarcity of natural resources in the county, and that he is now suddenly opposed to majority voting in the treatment of changing land use in Alta, South Varanger and Coastal Finland. The rest of us have believed that it was his main thing at the election four years ago! It is good that there will be a great deal of agreement on the Finnland Act, but there will be a double game when Olav Gunnar Ballo doubts that SV will vote against the law because of some relatively unimportant differences, without much significance. SV in Finnmark has obviously seen that there is a broad consensus on the law. Ballo's trying to stand out as an opponent of what he's actually for. Any depositor must decide whether he or she is acting fairly and fairly towards his or her voters. Any representative must also take responsibility for whether he contributes to serious conflicts between different ethnic groups for which there is no basis. It must feel nice. Ballo has triggered a signing operation against a privatisation he claimed would result from the creation of his own commission. 10,000 people have signed. Then Ballo changes vision and votes for the creation of such a commission. Suddenly there are 10,000 people protesting what Ballo himself is doing at Ballo's request. Any staging representative must assess whether such is the case. We who have been against privatisation all along, but who have also always claimed that the creation of a commission has nothing to do with privatisation, are only welcome to Ballo! I believe it is reasonable that he tells his constituents that he is doing the opposite of what he said four years ago, and the opposite of what he said four weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1282	Trond Helleland will have the floor. He is still the rapporteur on the matter!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1285	I hope I remain the rapporteur for the procedure! Now we're just the same before the finish line. I noticed in a statement from the representative of Thorkildsen in SV, that SV came into the process the evening before delivery, and that then it was too late. SV has been in the process for two years – like everyone else! SV has had all possibilities, but has consistently been in deficit with comments and clarifications – while the Workers' Party has provided comments and recorded the consultations based on the comments made by the government parties. We left a race where the clarifications were to come later. They came from the government parties, they came from the Workers' Party, but they came too late from SV. This has been a difficult process for all games, also for the Right. The will to secure a broad majority, the will to take responsibility and the will to dissolve in the crowds has been our starting point. We succeeded, but it must be said that it has been heavy. The game that would change the rules of the game by opening the last consultation because there had been so much secrecy, SV, has broken the rules of the game by not presenting its overall view in the consultations and by leaking the government parties' comments on the popular reaction to the privatisation of land and water in Finnmark. I got a complaint on the phone from Inga Marte Thorkildsen about this. But it was also stated on Sámi Radio's website that SV had set up an internal investigation commission to find out where the leakages came from. I expect that SV himself will say who was behind the leaks, so that innocent people are not suspected, and so that SV cleans up the mess they have created. SV had the opportunity for two years, but instead of finding solutions, they would create internal divisions. It was more important than a result. Kristin Halvorsen points out that the rapporteur, i.e. I've equated Finnmark's range with Hardangervidda. I would like to say to Kristin Halvorsen: the representative of Greece in this context is to refer to the Høefjell Commission of South Norway, which worked from 1908 to 1953 to draw up the boundaries between private land and state land on and around Hardangervidda, and to the Utmark Commission of Northern Norway and Troms, which ended its work last year. It's no more mysterious than that! It is this dreaded representative Ballo has trodden under in Finnmark, he has talked about privatisation – a privatisation that exists only in the vocabulary of the people's reaction. We've never talked about the privatisation of Finnmark, we've talked about the recognition of rights. The rights of Samers, the Nordics, women, others in Finnmark shall be recognised. I am glad that SV now says they will vote in favour. Then I hope there will also be an end to the demagoguery around this in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1300	I believe that the representative Kristin Halvorsen made a good contribution. The message in relation to not creating unnecessary conflicts, especially now after legal proceedings, I think we should all remember. I think this law deserves more than anyone. I am very happy that SV announces that you will subsidiaryly support the law. I think it's very important. I think it's very important for us to get on with this and get a maximum of counting for this. That is why I am even more surprised that the representative Ballo does not choose to listen to his own party leader, when, in his main post today, he tries to draw up new and completely unnecessary conflicts by entering into the debate between Professors Fleischer and Graver and Ulfstein, where he names the Graver and Ulfstein report almost as a butcher. Why should one do that in Odelstinget today, all the time even Ballo's own party, SV, takes note of what Count and Ulfstein have come with, and goes in for a commission and to identify rights? What, then, is the need to draw up such a debate as Olav Gunnar Ballo did before, in addition to creating new conflicts and fishing in touch with water? I have to ask all representatives to follow Mr. Halvorsen's good request to try not to create unnecessary conflicts right now. Nor have I heard in the debate – as I see it as a good debate – a single argument that is based on the argument of the Progress Party that special rights are created here. Rather on the contrary, one tried an example, namely that the possibility of limiting the harvesting of own land in terms of hunting and fishing should be a special right. There's no special right. What's special about Finnmark is that you open up a lot more than what you do in the country. It's in the country you have special rights. The private landowners have the opportunity to just shut others out. And when the representative Sandberg in his post talks about rights to a minority, it's not that right. This applies to all people in Finnmark – everyone has the opportunity to claim rights, collective rights. This does not depend on whether you have a Sami background or a Norwegian background or what it may be, but when the right is to be found, it can be linked to a minority. That's the way it is on Nøtterøy. If you live there and are plagued by the public passing by the house, you can claim a right in relation to your own property – which is not a universal right – and which you must of course follow. The Labour Party wants to ensure the rights of indigenous peoples, but that does not mean that they should take precedence over the others. My main feature in today's debate was an attempt to show that ensuring indigenous people's rights is just to ensure that they get the same rights as others in society, which would just be right and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1316	I took the floor to say that I found that the post that the representative Halvorsen made was very clarifying. There is no doubt that everyone, after this procedure, is concerned about the spirit that has been pervasive by a majority in the Chamber. The proposal submitted, which will receive subsidiary support from SV, is based on the fact that the people of Finnmark can act in a sensible and agreed manner. It is because people have it as their starting point, but because people sometimes get into conflicts, there are also conflict resolution mechanisms, both in relation to the country and in relation to, for example, the country. disposal of property. It's incorporated into the law, because it happens that people get into such conflicts. As for what I explained in my main post, the progress of the legislative proposal in 2003 and until today, I would like to refer to the letter I sent to the Stortinget on 6 April, and in particular to the letter of 14 June – both from 2004 – where I point to the need to identify rights. In other words, this is an integral part of the existing legislative proposal, which has been examined in a dialogue, consultation, which is unique and developed between the Stortinget, the Judicial Committee, and the Sametinget and the County Council. In this way, this has received a treatment that we can acknowledge. Then it is better that someone thinks that it should have been sent to the hearing – it is fair play – but I believe that the Stortinge's handling of this matter, this question, has been real and good. That is why I have had no problem saying, on behalf of the Government, that I support the comments of the majority of the Judicial Committee, and the bill it promotes. As far as public rights are concerned, it is clear that access is there as it has been, and that even this year with resource scarcity – in case of a local dispute – there is a further right of appeal in the system, so that solutions are also provided for that situation. What I took up in my main post, and as I still believe, is that one should choose the spirit, which now the representative elected Halvorsen, namely that once the law has been passed, one must assume that there is no massive privatisation. It is neither foreseen nor taken into account. It is assumed that rights should be identified, and it is not surprising that there are rights that exist – no new rights are created by this law, but there is every reason to identify them. It is earlier today in articles sketched how this was historically; it was almost not valued in any way. Now, when you create these rules, you also add an arena to act civilised, that's for the majority and minority people, and I have the confidence in the citizens of Norway, whether they live far north or south, that they can act unitedly and sensibly, together. That's the best thing in Norwegian folk tradition, that's the best in Sami tradition. That's what I did when I passed the law. I also take that into account after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1328	The law adopted today affects 73 000 Finnish mark-ups. It particularly affects the Sami population, and the Sami population has reason to be proud of the outcome. The whole thing has done a very good job in its contact with Stortinget, and they deserve all credit for it. But, and it's an important but, I think that the majority of this assembly here today underestimates the reactions that are in Finnmark to what I perceive as completely ordinary democratic rights to participate in a society and be part of it. That concern cannot be explained by the fact that I have set up the Finnmark population. What kind of influence does this congregation think I have as a person in Finnmark? It's also a pretty rough desauvuration of Finnmarkings in general and their ability to think for themselves, to actually get involved in a case and say that we're concerned about this. I must also say that there has been a certain tendency to paint the shadows of the consequences of the consultations, but the problem with those consultations has been that in the course of the process, in a closed process, new proposals have been submitted that others have not been able to decide on. We are now seeing the reactions of the Free Air Organisation. We see it from the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen. We see it from a lot of people. There's a very big difference between hearings. That's why I said two years ago that it could well be thought that someone in the SV had to think otherwise about it, but that this was a process that was not lucky. I personally believe that it has not been. It was lucky to have it opened at the end, but it was opened too late. You have to take the reactions seriously. I believe that they are taken seriously, that you are responsive to them, and is it really true what is said in this House, that you are concerned that the Community's resources should be preserved as the Community's resources, this can go well. But there are too many examples of a rhetoric among Norwegian politicians in which they say one thing and do something else, which means that the uncertainty that has arisen in Finnmark is a legitimate insecurity. What Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is doing here is easy. I have presented both in Vadsø and in Alta, for anyone who has been interested, the prerequisites I put at the bottom in order to be able to support a bill. What I am pleased about is that SV's legislative proposals take care of these. They shall be balanced and shall be in such a way as to enable the community to feel safe and secure in respect of them. Then I can go for a three-to-three solution, I've said. It's a long way inside, and so have I. The reason why it's deep is that ethnicity is involved in determining the control composition. It's also too easily rhetorical to say that ethnic issues, whether you have ethnic ties, don't matter as to the influence you have. It's got it. I think we should all be honest with that when we express how the law is designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1341	It's probably coming to the end of the debate. In the extension of the post now held by the representative Ballo, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Sameetinget and to Finnmark County – the two elected bodies that have participated wholeheartedly in this process and that have made useful, good and important contributions that have led to our landing today. Because it's not like we're somehow ignoring what's going on in Finnmark. What's moving in Finnmark, of course, is moving in the elected body of Finnmark County, with which we've had a close dialogue. And what's moving in the Sami population is moving in the Sameton. Of course, we could say that it would have been better to have a hearing after hearing, but I don't think it would have come out so much constructively. What I am pleased about is that the government has now also suggested that it will run a consultation process in matters such as: concerns the rights of indigenous people. I think it's useful, I think it's important, and it's in line with the ILO Convention. It is still pointed out that these and such references have been made by the organisations in the open air. There won't be anything more right about that, there won't be anything more right about them having 500,000 members. The Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen's Association wrote in its last statement yesterday that they do not want a commission. They will therefore not recognise the acquired rights of the people of Finnmark, the obligations assumed by Norway under international law and the human rights conventions signed by Norway. Then I have to report the passport and complain that it does not help if you have so many members, because when they don't want to read the text in the law, when they don't want to hear what the majority in this room says, I can't go any further. I want to end with a quote from today's leader in the North Lights: ‘First of all, it should be linked’ — i.e. the Hunters’ and the Fishermen’s Association — ‘learn that there are interests that weigh more than trout fishing and frost hunting. For example, the country settles old injustices by means of a historical law decision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1373	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1380	I'll be very short. In the Law of 25 June 2004 No. 53 on amendments to the procedural law adopted a comprehensive reform of the civil justice system on the basic plan. The law implies that the name ‘Lensmannskontoret’ should be used in some places where the term ‘police station’ has previously been used. The majority of the Committee has noted that during its work on the implementation of the reform, the Ministry has seen the need to make certain adjustments in this terminology. The majority of the Committee has therefore also taken note of the fact that the Ministry proposes an adjustment of the terminology of the law to take account of these considerations, so that the term ‘police’ may continue to be used as a term. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, shall join. I recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1393	I'll be very short. We want to continue the scepticism we expressed last time this law was up. We're still afraid that this law, regardless of whether you choose to name the agencies in one way or another, can lead to a mix of roles and role confusion, while at the same time we find it suspicious to assign an already blown up police task. Neither the law itself nor this change helps to strengthen civil and individual legal certainty, and we cannot support the proposal on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1416	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1423	It is a prerequisite for performing debt collection activities that the entity has permissions. In the case of an outreach agency, which is a business that involves claiming claims for others, it is also required that the person or persons who manages the business have personal collection rights. To obtain such permission – or permission – two prerequisites are required. Firstly, the actual manager must be considered fit. Secondly, the actual manager must provide an ordinary police record of honest conduct. In the proposal, the Government proposes to introduce requirements on suitability for the Executive Director, the member of the board and the owner who has ‘a monthly ownership part of the collection agency’. What should be the guide as to whether a person is suitable? The assessment shall address past criminal offences and any adverse economic behaviour. In addition, a police record shall be provided to the Executive Director and members of the Management Board. Furthermore, the proposal proposes a general basis for setting conditions in the authorisation to engage in the acquisition or continuous recovery of claims due to others — i.e. possible conditions for the operation of a foreign think tank. In practice, it means clarifying the legal situation in this area. Finally, it is also proposed that permanent establishments in another EEA State be treated as permanent establishments in Norway. But it is important that Norwegian language is used in all communication with debtors who are also consumers. The Judicial Committee unanimously supports the Government's proposals on all points. In a final note, the Committee stresses a problem which we ask the Ministry to investigate and report back to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. This concerns the experience of the police in some criminal environments that buy so-called rotten claims to recover the outstanding by using threats, extortion and violence. The debt collection law has a penalty framework on fines or prisons for up to three months. It is such a low penalty that the police have no opportunity to apprehend people who are known to operate this type of business in breach of the debt collection law. In this context, the Committee asks the Ministry to investigate how this type of crime can be prevented and controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1442	I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal on legal rules on the suitability of key players in the collection business. The requirement shall help to ensure that the collection business is managed by persons who are fit to carry out collection activities. The aim of the proposal is three-thirds. The aim of the proposal is to prevent financial crime. It is intended to strengthen the position of debtors and creditors vis-à-vis collecting societies. And it's meant to strengthen confidence in the debt collection industry. The proposal to introduce requirements for suitability was widely supported in the consultation round. However, there were also some objections, which are well taken into account in the Odelstinget proposal under consideration today. In particular, it is proposed that the implementation of the reporting obligations of collecting societies to the credit supervision should be less bureaucratic than the consultation note provided for. Furthermore, privacy considerations are better addressed through the proposal for a limited police record. The Finance Credit case taught us that society is vulnerable to abuse by the debt collection agency. Society in general — and the debtors and creditors in particular — need to protect themselves against such abuse. The Finance Credit case showed that there are often innocent third parties affected. The proposal to strengthen the requirements of the central actors of collecting societies must be seen in this context. The proposed requirement of suitability is addressed to the effective manager, the Executive Director, members of the board and owners with significant ownership – or in other words, to those who have real power and influence in the entity. The proposal for a requirement of suitability for key actors in debt collection companies strengthens the control and intervention of credit supervision towards debt collection undertakings. The supervision of the credit supervision may be carried out both in the context of a request for a new collection authorisation and in the context of ongoing operations. The proposal emphasises that the assessment of suitability shall relate in particular to economic conditions and criminal offences. The Committee has agreed to this. However, there is no need for spotless conduct in any area of life to be owned or operated by a collecting society. Traffic agents and other offences which do not indicate a person’s ability to manage a debt collection company shall not prevent the person from carrying out collection activities. But at the same time, it is important that society can have confidence that the players in the collection industry are capable of ensuring that the activities are conducted in accordance with laws, regulations and good collection practices. In the hearing, the Association of Norwegian debt collection agencies underlined the need to maintain such trust. I am pleased that the Committee supports the requirement for a limited police record for the Executive Director, board members and the actual head of a debt collection company. Such a certificate would increase the ability of the credit supervision to exercise effective control over the central actors of the undertakings. At the same time, the choice of a certificate that is limited in substance, but exhaustive in time, is, at my discretion, suitable for ensuring privacy in a good way. I am also pleased that the Committee supports the proposal for a general basis for credit supervision in order to be able to impose conditions in relation to a call for funds. As mentioned in the proposal, it is assumed that the right to impose conditions will have particular significance in cases where foreign operators wish to pursue debt collection activities in Norway. Furthermore, it has been considered necessary to state in the law that permanent establishments in another EEA State are to be treated as permanent establishments in Norway. The objective of the amendment is to achieve compliance with EEA law. Here, too, the Committee has endorsed the proposal. In my view, the Odelstinget legislative proposal under consideration today will involve important measures to strengthen the seriousness of the debt collection framework and to prevent abuse and bad behaviour in this area. Of course, it will also be the case, as the representative Marthinsen mentioned, that we will follow up the facts he mentioned in his intervention from this pulpit, and evaluate the police's possibilities in such situations as he described.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 637]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1484	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1491	I'll do my utmost not to spend all my time, because I don't think there's a need in this case. What is proposed here is simple – if I had said so – changes in the criminal procedure law. It's in many ways a formality, but nevertheless an important formality. So we have now created - in a new name - New Kripos and got it up to go. It shall have an independent prosecution authority, which means that the Chief and Deputy Chief of New Kripos must be given the prosecution authority. Similarly, a new position has been created as Deputy Chief of Police Security and there is a need for the person to be given prosecution authority. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1518	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1525	From the Committee's point of view, it may seem that there is a small matter we are dealing with now, but it is both a big and a very fundamental matter from a human rights point of view. Today, we are going to incorporate Protocol No. 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which seeks to abolish all forms of death penalty both in peacetime and in wartime. This means that the Member States of the Council of Europe undertake an absolute ban on the use of the death penalty even in times of war, and that is not an opportunity for Member States to make reservations. We believe that this is important in order to protect the right to life as a fundamental right in a democratic society, and it has also been the basis of the Council of Europe once this protocol has been adopted. In relation to Norwegian law, this is not new. The death penalty in peacetime was lifted as early as 1902, and the death penalty in wartime was lifted in the Military Penal Code in 1979. Nor does the Protocol have any significant practical significance in that we have long since abolished the death penalty both in peacetime and in wartime. However, Norwegian ratification will give a new political signal that Norway regards the death penalty as a principle unacceptable form of punishment. It is important for Europe to signal to other parts of the world that this is a fundamental human right that we believe should be brought closer into other parts of the world as well. All lots, except for the Advance Party, give their full support to the Odelstungsproposition. What is alarming is that the Progress Party is not a fundamental opponent of the death penalty. They keep the door open for another position in war and time of crisis. But it is precisely in war and in times of crisis that you get to try your positions and get tested how much respect for human dignity stands. The Labour Party notes that such fundamental principles are unfortunately lacking in the Progress Party, but fortunately there will be a large majority in this Chamber today in support of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1536	After listening to the case rapporteur, one would believe that the Progress Party is going to vote against today, but we are not going to do so. I thought the case rapporteur had brought that, but after listening to her post, I'm actually in doubt about it. It is quite correct that the Progress Party has made a reservation regarding a different time, society and other assumptions. We will reserve the right to consider reintroducing the death penalty in times of war. Per. Today, there's not a problem, but we'll still keep the door open to be able to make such an assessment given that social conditions require it. That is the background for our comment, but otherwise we will support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1559	Ot. pp. No 55 deals with the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance mediation. The purpose of the law is to safeguard the interests of users of insurance intermediation services and to ensure that operators have access to the internal market through the right to cross-border business and the right of establishment. The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal with a few exceptions. One applies to § 4-4. The Committee agrees with the importance of reasonable requirements for soundness which adequately safeguard the client's funds, but at the same time considers it important that the requirements imposed on Norwegian undertakings harmonise with those in countries with which Norwegian undertakings compete. The Committee therefore proposes that the requirements be regulated in order to have a certain degree of flexibility in the requirements. Furthermore, a majority believe that it should be equal to disclosure obligations for insurance brokers and insurance agents. In addition, the Committee supports the Government's proposals in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1588	Ot. pp. No 58 contains changes to several different laws, including: Act of 10 June 1988 No 40 on financing activities and financial institutions — Finance Act — Act of 6 December 1996 No. 75 on banking and public administration security, etc. by financial institutions and in some other laws — financial groups, mortgage bonds in the lending portfolio and non-life insurance corporations’ guarantee scheme. Law changes have been delayed in the financial industry. The first part relates to financial groups — insurance groups and financial conglomerates etc. The starting point for legislative proposals is the EU's Directives on conglomerates and insurance groups. In Norway, we have put great emphasis on ensuring a good lawmaking link to this type of business. The security and soundness conditions underpinning the EU Directives were the basis for the group legislation already adopted by the Storting in the autumn of 1991. Ot. pp. No 2 for 1991-92 on the financial group. This means that Norwegian legislation has already fulfilled the main elements of the recently adopted EU directives in this area for almost 14 years. However, as this directive takes on matters which are not covered by Norwegian regulation, there is a need for individual adjustments in our legislation in order to meet all the requirements of the directives. The proposals we are dealing with today relate to some changes in the CRA Act, the Finance Act, the Securities Trading Act and the Central Bank Act in order to facilitate the increased use of the capital adequacy rules and the requirements for intra-group transactions for banks, insurance companies and securities companies with close links to other entities. The proposals implement the EEA obligations following the so-called Conglomerate Directive and the Insurance Group Directive. The Conglomerate Directive contains destinations which set out supplementary supervision requirements for financial conglomerates in order to improve the overview of the group’s financial situation, minimum requirements for the regulation of capital adequacy on a consolidated basis, intra-group transactions, large exposures and risk management/internal control. The aim is to protect financial institutions’ own funds from the risks that may arise when financial institutions have close links with each other, and to prevent significant risk concentration in such groupings. We also deal with proposals for changes to the Finance Act and the Pantelova that take into account the need for some increased ability to provide regulations on mortgage-backed bonds in loan portfolios, as well as adaptations to this in the pantelova in a new destination on statutory mortgage for bankruptcy. The proposed amendments will strengthen bonds with mortgages in the lending portfolio as an attractive financing option. Individual minor adjustments are proposed for, among others: securing the bond holders' interest in timely payment, facilitating credit institutions issuing the bond to secure the lending portfolio against interest rate and currency fluctuations, as well as an extension of the ability to include loans to the public sector in the lending portfolio. Finally, it is proposed that the King should be able to provide for the use of mortgaged bonds in the lending portfolio also for the energy industry and for others who can offer pledges in real estate assets other than fixed ownership. Finally, there are proposals for changes to the rules on non-life insurance company guarantee schemes. In addition to changes in the rules, the Ministry also proposes to move the rules from the Act of 10 June 1988 No. 39 on insurance business — Insurance business law — Chapter 9 of Chapter 2A of the Law of 6 December 1996 No. 75 on banking and public administration security, etc. by financial institutions. Destinations include initially only non-life insurance companies, but are also granted the right to establish guarantee schemes for life insurance companies and credit insurance companies with regulations. The main objective of the proposed legislative changes is to limit the scope and scope of the non-life insurance company guarantee scheme. A reduction in the scope of the guarantee scheme, as well as a delimitation of the means of operation, would appear to be useful in order to clarify that the branch of insurance companies with head offices in another EEA State may be subject to membership of the scheme. As I said at the beginning of my article – managing this matter involves changes of promise in several different laws. There is a group of committees that are behind all the legislative amendments that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower.ana.ud1092e1614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox We end this morning's meeting now, as we still have to have an evening meeting. [[Fotation, see page 644]] We'll start the meeting at 5 p.m. 18 with case No. Eight.
