ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e61	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e68	Over 60 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, drug problems exist, and a third of all prisoners are sentenced to drugrelated crime. In these groups, the relapse rate is very high. We know that approx. Half of all prisoners return to prison in five years. For most people in this group, there is a connection between drug dependence and crime. If these groups are to be prevented from becoming repeaters, and if they are to help prevent new criminal acts, they need to deal with their problems. Today, the courts have more options to define criminal responses to drugrelated crime. In addition, criminal services have a number of measures aimed at motivating and helping the prisoner with the drug use during the criminal execution. However, the Labour Party believes that this offer is deficient, not least because of a lack of money in the criminal justice system. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee concludes on an appeal procedure with a judicial review of drug programmes. This, we believe, can help to strengthen the response to heavy drug users who want to get out of their drug use and who have a major need for help and treatment. Judicial drug programmes are based on a model developed and tested among others. in the United States, Ireland and Scotland, with good results. The proposal of the Government is based on Norwegian circumstances, where one clearly marks the independence of the courts in relation to the administration. This is a slightly different model from that tested in other countries, where courts are much more an integral part of the process. Here in Norway, the judge will have a criminal case to deal with under the general rules on the distribution of cases, and may lay down drug programmes as conditions in the conditional judgment. The role of the courts in following up the judgment is the essential distinction between the drug programme and the regular treatment and rehabilitation arrangements for drug users. The specific feature of the scheme is that a change of conditions is assumed during the programme and that this takes place at a court hearing at the request of the criminal services. I believe that the strong commitment of the courts will be more binding both on the participants and on administrative cooperation. Several of the hearing bodies are concerned that there is too much outpatient treatment for a group of heavy addicts with high relief needs. That concern is also shared by the Labour Party. We assume that the assessment of the individual provides the supply necessary for the best success in rehabilitation, and that this is not determined by lack of capacity and resources. Too many people will need an institutional space in the start-up of the programme. The Labour Party and the SV believe that if criminal services consider the prisoner suitable for participation in a drug programme after some of the penalties have already been imposed, it is important not to automatically exclude this group. We therefore ask the Government in the context of the appeal procedure to consider the possibility of converting unconditional judgment into conditional judgment with drug programmes under judicial control. Participation in the programme is based on the consent of the courts to participate. This is the starting point of the Workers' Party's agreement, because volunteering and motivations are important prerequisites for success. But we can't underestimate the fact that this is a strong element of coercion, because the alternative is an unconditional sentence with prison. In cases where the defendant denies blame, it may be difficult to obtain consent to participation in the drug programme. Well, that's obvious. But after the judgment, will he be excluded from a drug programme for that reason? The Labour Party believes that, in such cases, it must be possible to assess whether or not to give judgment on drug programmes. Judicial drug programme is an intervention for participants where it is important that legal certainty is good. In advance of this decision, it is important that the person concerned should be able to consult with his defender. For any participant who does not automatically have a defence claim, the Workers’ Party and the SV consider it important that they are appointed a defender in order to ensure adequate legal certainty. The Committee considers it important that the project be carefully evaluated during the test period so that it can be clearly assessed whether it is appropriate to continue the project after the test period. The Labour Party believes it is important to try out the scheme in several large courts and considers it natural for the four largest cities to participate. A broad basis of experience is necessary for the evaluation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e100	There is no doubt that there is a need to extend the existing drug supply within the criminal justice system and that it is necessary to test new measures to help criminal drug users. On the right, it is pleased that there is a total increase today that supports the Government’s proposal for a system of review of drug programmes with judicial control. There is no doubt that such a programme can help to strengthen efforts against heavy drug users who want to get out of their drug abuse and who have a major need for help and treatment. I'll give some praise from the pulpit today. I would like to commend the Council of State for the initiative he has taken on this programme. To the right, this is a way of dealing with those who are drug addicts and who become criminals just because they have to finance their drug abuse through crime. It's not hard-boiled and cynical criminals we're talking about here. We're talking about those who become criminals just because they have to finance their abuse through crime. The state councils have shown here the ability to think new and meet the challenge that we all see is very big, but that is also terribly difficult, by putting the individual in the center. When over 60 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, drug problems exist, and when about one third of all prisons are sentenced to drug-related crime, as well as a significant relapse rate, we need to do something. This testing scheme will help to test out new multidisciplinary forms of cooperation that can benefit both the provision of care and the provision of care for drug users in their future work on the rehabilitation of prisoners. However, it is important to point out that such a scheme will have no effect if, following the implementation of the programme, it does not receive further follow-up of the auxiliaries, including housing, work, health care and a social network. The right considers that a programme content adapted to the individual participant is necessary, dealing with both crime prevention, drug abuse and the mastery of the challenges of daily life. All parties, except the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, also consider it important that the family and other relatives be involved in the rehabilitation work to the extent appropriate for the purposes of the treatment and where it is desirable for the participants. Russ competence in the voluntary sector could also be a useful complement to establishing good responses in drug courts. There must be a high degree of flexibility in relation to who can participate in the project. It also considers that the Right is necessary for such a project to succeed. This applies to the type of drug abuse, mental illness, age and type of crime. At the same time, restrictive practices are necessary for persons who have committed violence, especially violence in close relations. Of course, it is essential that individuals are motivated to go through such a programme. The right also agrees that participation must be based initially on the fact that convictions have given their consent to participate in the Programme. But at the same time, there is also an element of coercion here, because the alternative is unconditional imprisonment. It is very positive that the Government clearly highlights the independence of the courts in relation to administration and supports the proposal that the role of judges in the Norwegian trial scheme of drug programmes is different from that of those elected internationally. It is also important that the project be thoroughly evaluated during the trial period so that it can be clearly assessed whether it is appropriate to continue the project after the trial period. It is also exciting to see where the programme and the trial project are put, which city and which court gets the great honour to try out such a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e121	After hearing the previous speaker, I thought for a moment that this was a project that was invented in Norway. I have the impression that this is something we have copied from other countries, but that we have created a Norwegian version. So to give the Minister of Justice a sole responsibility for the success here, I don't think I dare agree. But when it comes to promoting a Norwegian version of it, he will have full honor. So I think this case is part of focusing on what might be problem number. 1 in society, drugrelated problems. Anyone who finds the solution to this problem will also solve a massive problem in terms of profitability crime, solving major problems that we face today in relation to social networks and family relationships, among other things. One could solve problems in relation to the major health challenges and in relation to individuals affected by the everyday life of those with drug problems. I have said this before that whoever finds the solution to this will greatly contribute to a social improvement. Therefore, it makes sense to try out new measures and new models. One of the reasons is that we as humans are different. This means that the apparatus must also be different. There must be a diversity there, just as there is a diversity among those who are struggling, among other things. with drug-related problems. That is why, of course, the Progress Party wants to support what is available here from the Council of State. We realize that there is no A4 solution. One has to have a diversity. What I personally am particularly pleased about is that the Minister of Justice here has taken the initiative to create a system that does not follow the others in terms of the role of the judge. At least I am personally very pleased with the Norwegian version and the way in which the judge will be involved in the programme it is now being added to. If we had been in favour of some of the other models, I would have been concerned about the role of the judge and possible problems in the run-up. I mean, as I said, we have an obligation to try the same way we do in terms of injection rooms. Some of the new actions we want to do probably challenge us both politically and perhaps interpersonally also in relation to what we have now thought to be the solutions. That's why I think it's good to have a debate about innovation, new thinking and new ways of doing things. The reason is quite simple – there is no one given to have the answers alone. But the answers come, among other things. from people who are knowledge-rich and who have ideas for alternative solutions. I guess that's how to repair the arrangements and move on. Another thing I am very pleased with in this matter is that you involve relatives in the matters where it will contribute positively. The family is a factor no matter what we decide here on the house. I think the relatives have a common everyday life in many contexts like the one that has the troubles themselves. So this I think is very positive. I also expect the Minister of Justice to follow it up and facilitate it. Then it is also important that it is put up for a thorough evaluation of the case. What we're doing now is we're testing this out. A final position on change, continuation and possible liquidation will come back when an evaluation is available. But initially, I welcome this proposal and look forward with excitement to the outcome and the means it can be for some people who are struggling with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e136	This is one thing I think the whole committee has been looking forward to dealing with. It's time to think new and untraditionally on a much larger scale than so far. It is simply too many who receive prison sentences when they should have actually received a rehabilitation offer. SV has long been concerned about the high proportion of drug addicts in Norwegian prisons. We have believed that parts of the policy we are pursuing towards drug addicts are both offensive, unwise, inefficient and wasted with money and with human resources. There are a terrible number of people who experience that imprisonment is nothing more than a small breathing hole in a everyday life marked by crime and intoxication. Others keep rushing while they're zoned. Too many people do not receive a drug treatment offer. In the east, the proportion of help offered is perhaps as small as 10 pst. On the SV side, we believe that all prisoners with a drug problem or dependence should be offered drug treatment. When they're hooked up by the legal system, they're practically served on a silver barrel, and it's really incredible that the time isn't spent at all. Very many people are motivated to start a new life right now. The number of §12 zones is tragically small, and the number given a «luxe offer» as Stiffinder is even smaller. In addition, women are discriminated against in respect of offers. SV is positive to the proposed ND, but underlines the importance of expanding the §12 offer, such as Stiffinder and the general drug treatment offer outside the walls. There are some dilemmas related to the introduction of the ND as well, and we've pointed these out in the setting. For example, there is a need to promote the voluntary aspect, and there is reason to ask yourself if it will now pay to engage in crime, as one will now be able to get ahead in line via the judiciary. On the SV side, however, we have come to the conclusion that the benefits of ND are greater than the disadvantages, and we think it will be interesting to see if you, for example, are doing this. will identify better cooperation models in the public utility sector. I also want to bring out an incurrency. Since SV has just been particularly concerned with problemating the voluntary aspect of this, it is illogical that we are involved in a note from the Workers' Party that even those who do not confess should be able to be sentenced to ND. In other words, we shouldn't have been in this particular comment. SV, like the Labour Party, is committed to stress that a judicially controlled drug programme is an intervention for participants, where it is important that legal certainty is good. In advance of this decision, we believe it is important that the defendant should be able to consult with his defender. For any participant who does not have the right to defend, it is important that they are appointed as defenders in order to be able to adequately safeguard their legal security. It is very good that a unanimous committee emphasises that there is a professionalism that must be at the centre of the design of the individual court. Several of the hearing bodies were concerned that the working group was too much based on outpatient treatment for a group of heavy abuses and heavy relief needs. The Committee assumes that, in the assessment of the individual, provision is made for the best success of rehabilitation and that this is not determined by lack of capacity and resources. We assume that too many people will need institutional space at the start of the program. It has also been important for the Committee to stress that families and other relatives are involved in the rehabilitation work to the extent that this is appropriate as part of the treatment and desirable on the part of the participant. Moreover, the competitiveness of the voluntary sector could be a useful complement to the establishment of good actions in the ND programme. So this is not what the representative, Mr Hofstad, said here, that this is just a majority opinion. This is something the entire committee believes. SV is pleased that the ND will be carefully evaluated during the trial period, so that it can be clearly assessed whether it is appropriate to continue the project after this period. Then we also learn about the hearing bodies that have been negative to the ND, have been right in some of their predictions. We hope not. We hope that the ND will work in a way that makes it work together, for the best for drug addicts and drug addicts who today have a lowly appropriate and often direct harmful stay in prison. Too many relatives, this could be a huge relief, and for society as a whole, we think this will pay off. There is reason to recall that an average prison day costs about the same as a day at a drug institution. Which has the greatest effect, it's pretty much not hard to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e164	The previous speakers have already quantified the number of people affected by this issue in terms of drugrelated crime. This knowledge obliges us to take action to help more convicted people get rid of their drug problem. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Government of Ot.prp. No 81 for 2004–2005 proposes a system of review of drug law enforcement programmes. The testing scheme should last over three years and include heavy drug users convicted of drugrelated crime. The drug programme is an individualised rehabilitation scheme and is part of a criminal law response. The Court of First Instance may provide that convictions shall be required to implement the programme if criminal proceedings are to be postponed in prison. However, a condition for this is that the convicted person consents to the drug programme as a form of compensation. The working party and SV want to ease the requirement for consent in situations where the aim is not to recognise punishment. Judicial drug programmes will be demanding for individuals. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is necessary to establish consent as an unconditional requirement for participation in the programme. In our opinion, a person who does not wish to consent to participation will not be sufficiently motivated to participate in such an in-depth programme. The drug programme may include individual treatment arrangements adapted to school and work interventions, housing follow-up, leisure arrangements and measures that are important for individual rehabilitation and integration into society. The aim of the programme is both to improve the practical assistance and treatment provision for heavily burdened drug users and to prevent new crime. The drug programme aims to strengthen the overall effort to treat and help drug users who want to quit their abuse. For this reason, there is a commitment to cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that a joint committee in the setting clarifies the importance of involving the family of the convicted and other relatives in the rehabilitation work to the extent that this is appropriate as part of the treatment. Often, for example, contact with children in a rehabilitation phase is important as a motivation factor. But I would like to stress that to the extent that children are involved in the rehabilitation phase, this must be done on the basis of an assessment of the best interests of the child. You must never use a child as a drug for abstinence. It would probably be all the worst if it appeared to the child that they had some sort of responsibility to motivate mother or father. Also, the competence of the voluntary sector could be a useful complement to the establishment of good responses in the drug programme. In the Christian People's Party, we are convinced that diversity in the supply of drug addicts is important in order to get the most out of their drug abuse, and it has been clarified before in other articles that drug users are different and will then benefit from choosing what is closest to what fits their situation. Therefore, I expect the rehabilitation work in drug programmes to be carried out with transparency, and that the best way to help the individual to live a drug-free life is to be taken into account. The Labour Party and SV open up to convert unconditional judges into conditional judges with drug programmes. If such a conversion competence is given to criminal services, a number of fundamental issues are raised, including: by virtue of the principle of distribution of power. It is problematic to have the administration reform a decision taken by the Court of Justice. Judicial drug programmes are referred to as a redress mechanism. During the trial period, all aspects of this criminal reaction will be evaluated and evaluated. In this context, it would also be natural to consider the need to convert unconditional prisons into conditional sentences with drug programmes and the need to legislate as a condition of parole. In the setting, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party ask the Government to report back to the Stortinget on how to conclude in relation to these issues. The role of defence is important since the drug programme is an in-depth programme. To this end, a representative of the Defence Group shall participate in the pre-projects locally in order to contribute to the development of better cooperation procedures with the other actors in the Programme. He/she will also be able to provide colleagues with information about the scheme. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that defence lawyers know the system well, so that they can advise their clients on their consent to participation. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that it is important that we do not offer a qualitatively better rehabilitation scheme to heavy drug addicts convicted of criminal acts than to those who have not committed crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e192	One of the main findings of the Fafos Life Force Survey Research Foundation, ‘Levekår among prisoners’ [[2004]] The problems for this group are both complex and complex, and there are no simple and easy-to-use solutions. I want to pay tribute to the criminal services and their collaborators for the work they do for drug addicts who execute prison sentences. However, my goal is to put in place measures to prevent them from entering prison. Drug addicts get into an evil circle that's hard to break. In order to finance their drug abuse, criminal acts, typically various forms of profit crime, are committed. They're gonna be criminals and they're gonna go to jail. Once released, they continue their criminal activity to finance drug abuse. I would therefore like to take action to address the main cause of the problem, namely drug abuse. Other countries, such as Ireland and Scotland, can show good experience with ‘Drug Court’, where drug users can be sentenced to treatment instead of prison. And we also have to think about this area. I cannot help but understand that the idea base of the scheme is correct. Although the evidence on the long-term effects is not so far available, I believe that the evaluation material provides sufficient basis for testing a drug court scheme in Norway, adapted to our Norwegian circumstances. The Ministry of Justice has extensive experience in the use of criminal responses as an alternative to unconditional prison. Social services, pro-mille programmes and community penalties are examples of this. However, drug law enforcement programmes, which I would like to call the Norwegian scheme, are a criminal reaction that is, on many points, different from the responses that have been tested in the past. The drug programme includes, inter alia: closer administrative cooperation than has hitherto been the case in the course of criminal proceedings. This will affect both professional and economic choices of the services concerned. That is why I am adding to a central steering group where the departments concerned are involved. For convictions, too, the drug programme will appear to be different and more obligatory than criminal responses that have been convicted in the past. Therefore, participation in the programme must be based on consent, which means that convictions themselves must want to control their drug abuse and change in relation to crime. The selection of participants will be a critical point for success in the drug programme. I will therefore provide good practices to provide a satisfactory basis for the decision as to whether he/she is fit to participate. In my view, drug law enforcement is not only a good social economy, but also a way of raising the quality of life of a society that has already had enough difficulty. I refer here to the report of the Fafos study on a strong link between drug abuse, mental illness and criminality in prisoners and a general accumulation of living conditions problems. In such a situation, I think it must be allowed to think new and untraditionally. Every drug addict who can break the vicious circle will be a winner in itself and have great significance both for society and for the individual abuser. I'm in favour of a model where the judge, as a starting point, has no role other than the traditional role of the judge. However, in my view, the Court of Justice will play a central role in the implementation of the programme. Firstly, the participation of the Court of Justice may be more binding on the courts and other parties involved in the programme. Moreover, it is the court which, in the hearing, decides on the change of conditions and results from a breach of conditions. These decisions will have a major impact on the successful implementation of the Programme. It is important that judges with drug programmes be implemented as quickly as possible. To ensure this, I will set up a day centre that will provide a comprehensive offer to those who are going to participate in the programme. The centre will be the basis for the team’s activities and the permanent meeting place of the court, unless otherwise agreed. Too many people will need further treatment and action from different agencies, even after the end of the programme. I will therefore ensure that good cooperation procedures are developed between the various bodies to ensure such follow-up. I do not want to launch such a comprehensive action without ensuring that the project is carefully evaluated during the trial period. Finally, I would like to express my great gratitude for the broad support I have given to the proposal on the drug programme, not only here in Odelstingen, but also from the bodies affected by the action. I think this broad support will be an important prerequisite for succeeding in breaking the vicious circle and providing drug addicts who want it, the opportunity to choose a law-abiding and drug-free life. Let me underline something I have said before: there are examples in Norway, among others. from Sauda, to which I have referred from this pulpit, where, by wise cooperation with the local court, with the loner, with the local businessman, with the municipality, with the educational system, with the social security system and with Aetat, you actually managed to break a vicious circle, where a group of people with heavy dust stress were able to get out of it and crime at the same time. So we have Norwegian experiences that are similar to what we call drug programmes with judicial control. It happened because someone in a community wanted to reverse a trend. Such cultures we're going to take with us, both to show that we've been on the track before, and to have it as an encouraging call for those who are going to start the experiment that Odelsting will adopt here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e218	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e221	I think I'll start by giving praise to everyone who's on such a decision as we do tonight. Actually, it's a shame that this case doesn't have much more attention out there than it actually has. In my opinion, this proposal and the ideas behind this proposal can actually do something to reduce what people see as ordinary everyday crime. Around the world, we see that the police districts and people are most plagued, especially by winning crimes, which go on waves, but which are largely carried out by the very group of convictions that we think of, and which we want this proposal to reach. It's very important. I also think it is essential that such a measure be founded in the ordinary courts. In many ways, what has been widely agreed, both in the Stortinget and Odelstinget, is passed on to the idea of further cultivation and, to a large extent, strengthening the general Norwegian courts and not building special courts for this and hints. In this way, I think the proposal is very good. It is clear that what is happening today in relation to the criminal justice system, the prison system, the courts and the convictions, is that they are largely confronted by a system that is perceived to work and partly also works, which is too rigid. It is difficult to get § 12 zoning. You either have to have good will and many good helpers around you, or you have to have a pathfinder project nearby that you can go right into, in order to achieve many of the benefits that lie there. So unfairness in relation to getting treatment and not getting treatment is already there. I have to say that it is a good proposal in the sense that we are taking a settlement with the idea of criminal policy for which, in particular, the Progress Party has been a driver. I heard the representative of the Progress Party, Ellingen, say that these problems were not solved with an A4 model. I fully agree with that. The problem is that the models and solutions obtained from the Progress Party for combating crime are precisely A4, which is about quantity, number and multiplication factors in terms of punishment and removal of so-called quantum discount, to the extent that you can talk about it, etc. This helps to focus on the content of reactions instead of having them at my discretion — excuse the expression — hopeless discussion about how long the punishment should be. So just a little bit about this by coercion. It's a paradox that today we have a system that forces worn-out drug users into prison cells without asking for their consent, and which is absolutely the worst. In this way, I don't think the forced debate really becomes particularly topical in relation to this. The Workers' Party's suggestion in the comments that consideration should also be given to the possibilities for those who do not recognise the culprit should be quite obvious. It's just asking them. If there was any reaction, you would accept to zone by participating in the program.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e237	As a left-wing representative, I have to say that I am actually very proud today. It is possible that this idea is not entirely new, that we have got it from others, but it is a Left State Council that has made the political craft it is to adapt it to Norwegian conditions and to promote it in this Chamber. ‘No man is an island’ is an expression. Finally, we are now able to make it so that neither institutions nor institutions become islands. You have to be able to create an institution around a human being where that human being is in the center, and around an entire human being. Neither do we create systems based on institutional needs, but based on human needs and on the needs of society. It's also a system where you see not only the individual, but also all the people around that need to succeed in something like that. This is a whole new way of thinking. It's a whole new approach, and it's a little revolution. That's why it's a big day for me as a left-wing representative. It's a little sad, because maybe we should have done so bad craftsmanship that there had been a great war about it in the hall. Then it might have become more aware of the little revolutions we're actually doing with this. So I want to thank the Council of State for doing the craft, even if we don't get the big discussions around it. This happens when social and judicial policies meet. That's what the Left believes that we have to do more in this field. And I'm proud to have a Council of States that has managed to do such a thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e252	It would have been nice if the representative Storberget had listened with both ears occasionally and not just one. But that's okay. It'll be on his account. The representative of Storberget is concerned about the A4 Progress Party solutions to crime. In this case, the representative of Storberget has not followed in the hour, because when we were dealing with the penal code quite recently, the various measures proposed were quite wide. I believe that the budgetary agreement for the current year also shows that the measures in place there are quite wide. The fact that the representative Storberget is concerned about the criminal policy of the Progress Party is at his disposal. We have no problems supporting people who want to make any changes in their lives. If, on the other hand, people want to continue a criminal racetrack and not take the initiative to break out of it, we think society should have clear rules and make people responsible in that way. If we do not leave any trips for our own benefit at the expense of those who are law-abiding. It may be a good policy for the Workers' Party, but it is not for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e259	The President will say that we assume that all the representatives sitting in this room are listening to both ears, and that we limit it so that the pulpit of the Stortinge is used for posts and not to talk about representatives. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e277	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e284	In Ot.prp. No 86 encourages the Government to propose legislative amendments to implement the EU Regulation of 13 December 2004 on biometric requirements for EU/Schengen citizens passports for the use of facial photographs. It has been suggested that Norwegian travellers will be offered the issue of passports with biometric information from 1 October this year. This is done to meet US biometric information requirements in all passports issued after 26 October 2005. Earlier this evening, the size has agreed to the approval of the Council Regulation. Technology has come a long way. In the introduction of biometrics in passports and other travel documents, it is important that a harmonised safety standard is established using biometric standards for passports and travel documents to prevent falsification and abuse. The use of biometric identifiers will be an important contribution to preventing and preventing acts of terrorism and other serious cross-border crime because it will prevent the falsification and use of incorrect passports during border controls. At the same time, the use of biometrics also imposes high standards of privacy protection. The proposal proposes the right of individuals to access information about themselves stored electronically in the passport, the obligation to delete biometric data protection information obtained and stored electronically outside the passport as soon as the passport is handed over or transmitted to the passport holder, and to delete biometric personal information obtained for passport control as soon as the verification of passport and passport holder has been completed. In the view of the Committee, the Government's proposal takes due account of privacy considerations. The Committee has also noted that, at this stage, the Ministry does not propose a legal framework for the electronic storage of fingerprints in the passport and agrees with the Ministry that there is a need for a more detailed investigation of data protection issues in this area. It raises difficult questions, but we are facing major challenges in cross-border crime. This proposal for biometric passports will make it much more difficult to falsify passports. But in terms of fingerprints, the Committee, and especially the Right in this case, is very pleased that the Department will look further into that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e299	From the autumn, Norwegians will be able to fit biometric data stored in small computer chips. This is happening at the same time as similar systems are being put in place in the United States and throughout the Schengen area. The aim of including biometric data is two-fold: counterfeiting shall be made more difficult and border checks shall be made simpler, safer and more efficient. This is a good purpose and it is important that the system to be implemented has the intended effect. With today’s ever-increasing travel, it is good that this can be done more efficiently and that passports become safer to use for decent users. This must be done in such a way as to ensure effective border crossing without jeopardising the safety of the individual. It is not going to be unproblematic to have a system that should be effective at borders in a number of different countries. This problem will not be reduced when it is thought that countries outside the US and the Schengen area will also introduce similar systems. ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, has adopted the standards to be used as a basis for the pass technology. This organisation has Member States from all continents, and no one can believe that the introduction of identical passport reading technologies will be possible anywhere. The storage of the data in such a way that it can be read at different border crossings may result in a lower level of safety and the possibility of the problem of unauthorised reading. If people with their own reading equipment can identify you without you being aware of it, you can quickly face a situation where the passports have become less secure for the users. An important topic, which is also addressed by the rapporteur on this matter, is the collection, storage and deletion of personal data. While data at the control point will only be used to verify that the passport holder is the person to whom it is sent, it will soon also be possible to check these data against the huge base of biometric data produced by the Schengen countries in these days. When this possibility is opened up, there will be a more political question about who is in this base as unwanted persons. I therefore refer to the SV's proposal that Stortinget asks the Government to come back with a clarification on the storage and deletion of such data, a clarification that we believe is particularly important. I will deal with the proposal that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e312	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e315	The Government is thus proposing to the Storting to amend the passport law in order to give the use of biometrics a legal anchor. The legislative proposal aims to implement the EU Regulation of 13 December 2004 on biometric requirements in the passports of EU/Schengen citizens, as regards facial images. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs submits in parallel St.prp. No 54 for 2004-2005 on consent to the approval of decisions on the further development of the Schengen acquis Council Regulation. 2252/2004. [[EF]] On the other hand, the legislative proposal does not propose to implement the retention of fingerprints in passports at this stage, although the EU regulation also provides for this, with the implementation deadline early in 2008. I have chosen to do this in order to allow a more thorough investigation of important data protection issues before the matter is brought before the Stortinget again. I am now submitting the bill to the Stortinget to offer Norwegian travellers an offer to issue passports with biometric information from 1 October this year. This is done to meet US biometric information requirements in all passports issued after 26 October 2005. Passengers with passports issued before that date will still be able to travel visa-free to the United States for the entire period of validity of the passport, provided that the passport has machine-readable text. Computer-readable passports have been issued in Norway since 1999. I have been particularly concerned that privacy should be safeguarded during the introduction of biometrics in passports, as this raises new challenges in the management of personal data by identifying individuals. I have therefore proposed a rule on the right of individuals to access the biometric data stored in the passport, as well as a right to request these corrected or deleted. Furthermore, it is proposed that biometric data obtained for the issue of passports, or for subsequent passport checks, be deleted as soon as the purpose is achieved. Finally, I would like to stress that the introduction of biometrics will also have a positive impact on privacy, by the fact that this type of passport will more effectively protect citizens from theft and abuse of their identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e330	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e346	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e353	The proposal presented in Document No 8:93, it might be said to represent one of the Document No. the eight proposals which are at least suitable for the type of legislation which the proposal itself contains. With regard to the question of ‘remuneration for orproprietion of immovable property’, there has been a wide-ranging discussion of both case-law and policy, and has probably been in Norway for the past 50 years. As the Ministry has also stated in its reply to the representative Sandberg of 11 April of this year, this legislation requires considerable preparatory work and is complicated both by law and not least by politics. This applies in particular to the example drawn by the proposers. This applies to remuneration for special restrictions on the availability of real estate. In that case, there will be major political disagreements about the extent to which compensation is to be provided, and in that case the extent to which this compensation is to be provided. An overall committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, has chosen to decide to attach the proposal to the Protocol, motivated by the fact that this requires thorough legislative work which will just lead to the necessary clarifications. For the Workers' Party, I would also like to add that it is not obvious to have full compensation in all the cases where you get limitations on your own real estate – you actually have a long case-law on that. In this way, there is a difficult demarcation to make. When making available restrictions e.g. In view of the needs of society, it has not been given full compensation for any losses that might arise. In many cases – I kept saying whether or not it is an environmental protection minister who comes by rattlingly, as stated in the explanatory statement for the proposal – it will be socially useful needs that do not provide adequate coverage for full compensation if the property cannot be used as intended by the owner. The majority therefore believe that we should await the work of the Department, which is based among others. in the NOU where one has gone through this difficult question. This is particularly poor for inclusion in a Document No. 8 proposals – a private legislative proposal, as this is actually – and only limited to this type of situation. This should be seen as a whole. It is also a political balance that is quite difficult. Therefore, the vote by the majority is that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e368	I share the rapporteur's views on the comments of the majority. We agree with the Ministry that this is an important issue, and will therefore await the Ministry's file before we decide. But I have to reserve myself against the representative Storberget's emphasis that there is not necessarily to be full compensation in this type of case. It's a complicated topic, but the right starting point is that there should be full compensation. So we're going to have to wait for this piece of law and see what comes out of it. I very much sympathise with the arguments put forward by the Progress Party in this matter, and I hope that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice will present a legislative proposal on this matter as soon as possible. This has been working on since 2001. It was at the hearing on 1 December 2004. I therefore hope that as soon as we are running after the elections and the Minister of Justice continues as Minister of Justice, this matter will be brought to a happy conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e379	If that is the case that it is about starting with congratulations in relation to the election, I also do not want to change the government immediately – just so it is said. With regard to the comment made by the rapporteur, the representative of Storberget, I note that we disagree with the outcome of the proposal that has been submitted, but we can well agree that it may have consequences who is rustling around and where. At least it shows this matter at my discretion. It's about, we want to promote a change in relation to compensation, because we believe that this case is an example that you can get very bad out based on who happens to be rushing past your property. Then the representative of Storberget is also right in saying that there is a political question about the context in which you are entitled to compensation and the amount of compensation, not least for the needs of society. But in this case, with this example, we think that the landowner is extremely poor, and we are therefore promoting the amendment that exists here. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e388	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e406	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e413	After what I can see, this is the last debate the Justice Committee has in this period, and therefore it's nice to be able to end up with a cause of joy, namely that we're putting down the legal fee related to hearing things by 10 pst. It is based on the fact that it is important to have good competition in moving loans between banks, thus helping to increase competition in the loan market. This is a matter related to the revision. The Committee refers to its respective comments in the vote on the revision and, moreover, has no further comments, except that I personally think it is positive that we can now conclude by reducing the legal fee relating to disclosure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e422	I will pay close attention to a brief comment, but there has been a lot of attention in recent years about the legal fees, and not without reason, since this government has used almost every opportunity to raise money through the legal fees. The additional costs involved have often been borne by people who already have very poor advice. That is why this is also a matter for which SV is extremely concerned. During the examination of the year's budget, SV added 82 million. kr to reverse the proposed increase, which affects victims of debt. The charges for forced collection are purely extra costs for those who already have it in their financial interests, and there are a lot of people who have contacted us just because of this, and who are desperate because they are put in an unsustainable mess by the state. In the revised national budget, the Government has proposed to reduce the multiplier by 10 pst. in the case of stock listing of mortgage bonds and credit transfers. This is the legal fee paid by those who already have the funds, so I will have to pour some paint in the beggar. If the government had been seriously concerned about the debt problems, if it had instead reduced the fees associated with enforcement, I would say. So once again, the government proves that it thinks more of those who have, than of those who don't, and we want the government, if it continues, to succeed in reducing the legal fees further, and then preferably more focused on those who labor the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e431	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e444	The Odelsting should then be ready to go to voting on the matters listed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e517	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e527	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e535	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an explanation of how it will relate to the storage and deletion of biometric data.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e613	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e623	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e635	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 6 April 1984 17 on the remuneration of immovable property, is amended as follows:Article 5 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:If the property in a binding land plan is set aside for public buildings, public traffic areas or other public facilities or for leisure, the landowner may require that the consideration be determined on the basis of what it is probable that the property would have been allowed to be used if it had not been set aside for such a purpose. Eli Sollied Överaas – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e653	The centre party wishes to support the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e658	An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e715	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13-lower.ana.ud517e725	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
