ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e51	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Mr Ellingsen, who has the floor for the rapporteur, Mr Kukkestad, who is not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e60	International cooperation is and may be a challenge in relation to a law that covers what is needed nationally, but also in relation to international leadership in order to provide a basis for it to function, as seen. This case, which concerns European companies, is a natural consequence of the EEA Agreement making a geographical area an economic entity. Just as Norway sees it as a unit in which the head offices of its enterprises can be moved, so does the new form of company within the EEA territory. You can ask yourself if you need a form of company in order to move your head office. It would not be inconceivable for all companies to have this opportunity in the future, regardless of the form of a company. So in today's regime, you have to transfer companies to move the funds abroad and then re-establish it. Another option is to establish a company to buy up the Norwegian company. In any case, there is a lot of formality and creativity used. The tax relationships are resolved by foreign subsidiaries and any merger of the companies. Then the subsidiary becomes an independent company with its head office abroad. Norway provides the opportunity to stop companies that wish to move out, for reasons of public interest, but it is important to point out that these are only considerations that will also be recognised internally by the EU Court of Justice. It is clear that much is needed for a move to have a direct impact on requirements such as payment system, function, etc. A person may find it difficult to see that the transfer of an individual company could result in the fulfilment of the conditions. In view of this, the exemption must be considered as a safety valve only if larger groups of companies will move out simultaneously and thus create a particularly weakened financial market in general. In view of the fact that the exemption does not apply to the movement of individual enterprises alone, the majority – Right, Christian People’s Party and the Advance Party – consider that there is no need for any move to be approved by the State. The same parties believe that this will only lead to an unnecessary red tape, and further believe that if one comes close to the fulfilment of the exemption requirement, it is unthinkable that this could happen without the knowledge of the State. It is only in those cases where the exemption may have practical consequences that there is a need to act by the State. The minority – the working party and SV – believe that all movements should be authorised. It ensures that companies cannot move without informing them. But that movement should be able to go through general assembly, etc. And without anyone knowing about it, it's probably just a theoretical exercise. As to the question of whether there should be a body within the company for which unanimity is required for the transformation from ASA to ES, this is considered unnecessary. A transformation requires a two-thirds majority at the general meeting, in the same way as the relocation of the head office. The rules governing the convening of a general meeting and a qualified majority shall ensure the necessary preparation of the case and shall ensure that the final decision is taken. In view of this, the majority voting is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e88	I think I can essentially agree with what Jan Arild Ellingsen now said about the proposal that Odelstinget is going to deal with regarding the new form of company that is now coming into Norwegian law, European companies. But this type of company is likely to have a greater impact than in isolation on where to place your main seat and the question of moving it. It's a kind of corporate formation that will now largely be the same across Europe. In many ways, we will have harmonisation of legislation, and we will probably also have a pressure for further harmonisation of the regulations that actually apply to companies. It is a type of harmonisation which, for many reasons, will actually be of the good and which will make it easier to operate across borders. For the Workers' Party, there have been two issues that have been difficult in this matter. One is the question of whether an authorisation system is to be actively required for the transfer of principal seats and whether or not authorisation and right of objection should also be required for the formation of such companies by merger. There we are in a situation – and this is likely to be a major concern of companies – where we risk moving the main seats of such a company, either by the very formation of the company or later, out of the country, with the consequence that it can have both for jobs and for a number of other conditions. The Labour Party has always considered that, when such international legislation is being implemented, the rights of objection open to the same type of international law should be used. That is the background to the proposal made by the Workers' Party and the SV in this case concerning the authorisation system and the right of objection. It could be important that this access also extends beyond the sectoral legislation we have in relation to the particular financial market. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we just use the rights of objection under the EEA legislation and that at least the right to object is not waived when national legislation is created. That is why we believe that this should now be proposed. We regret to the extent that a majority in the Grand Duchy does not follow up on the possibility of objecting to the transfer of principal seats in such companies, and that the formation of such companies by merger does not take account of the right to respond and, to the extent that it is considered that public interests are threatened. I think that would be important, because first of all, there are important areas that probably sectoral legislation does not capture – we have mentioned, for example. security, financial system, power resources, natural resources – and for everything we know, we should ensure in this type of legislation that we just have the right to object also in view of what we could say in the future is public interest. It is in this way a little strange that you do not from the government parties and also from the Progress Party this time help to take care of the opportunity you actually have to intervene. We will maintain that proposal, and I will address the proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV. In addition, it has also been important and essential for the Workers' Party to ensure the same rights as others. In this context, it is proposed from SV that guidance – guidelines, or more than one supporting document – be drawn up for the regulation, based on Section 3 of the SE Act. I see that the government parties have proposed a somewhat milder system, and I warn that the Workers' Party will support the proposal presented by the Right and Christian People's Party this morning early.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e99	The representative Knut Storberget has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e102	Norway is strongly integrated into everything happening in the EU in almost all areas. To a very large extent, therefore, the decisions taken by the European Union also have an impact on Norway. In particular, it concerns the decisions which become applicable to our country through the EEA Agreement. This proposition is an implementation of a Council Regulation which results in the European company becoming a new company in Norwegian law. This Regulation lays down specific rules on the establishment and organisation of European companies, abbreviated to SEs. Otherwise, national rules applicable to public limited-liability companies shall apply mutatis mutandis to SEs. The main advantage of choosing to organise a company as an SE is the possibility of moving its head office to another EEA State without having to go along the path of dissolution and creation. Thus, this new form of company is primarily an offer to companies that see more than one EEA State as their market, in order to facilitate their ability to operate across national borders. As is the case today, a Norwegian company that wants to move its head office to another country must go the way of dissolution in Norway and the creation of a new state under the company law of that country. This will also be the case if a company from another European country wishes to move its head office to Norway. The Socialist Left Party is, not unexpectedly, critical of the regulation. We have been doing well financially in Norway in the eleven years since the referendum on EU membership in 1994. But it would hardly have done so well without the EEA agreement. The EEA Agreement gives us access to the EU's internal market with almost 500 million consumers. Over 70 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU. It is a well-known case that the Socialist Left Party will withdraw Norway from this agreement, which is absolutely necessary for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. Now this debate on the introduction of European companies in Norwegian law is not going to become an EU debate. The Socialist Left expresses concern that Norwegian companies should be transferred to other countries – EU countries – with more favourable framework conditions, which in turn will lead to lost jobs and tax revenues for the country. During that period of co-operation government has ruled the country, all arrows have pointed upwards. The framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises have been dramatically improved and employment and start-ups are increasing. Norway shall be a country where it pays to invest, and not only that, it shall pay to establish companies and jobs. It makes it easier to move companies across borders. Then it is all the more important that we do not pursue a anti-business policy. If there were to be a socialist government after the elections, unfortunately it could become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e123	The Regulation on European companies is a central instrument in the development of the internal market from which SV in principle withdrew during the examination of the EEA Agreement in 1992. The purpose of the Regulation is to make it easier to move economic activities and jobs across national borders in the EU and EEA territory. At the same time, companies are given full freedom to settle in the country that gives them the most favourable framework conditions. There is no need for authorisation and no complicated tax settlement in case of liquidation in one country and establishment in another. Moving economic activities from Norway to Italy will be as easy as moving from Asker to Bærum. But when head offices move from Asker to Bærum, corporate tax does not change. On the other hand, it may change significantly when the head office is moved to another country. LO is concerned that the regulation could lead to large tax losses for Norway, that it could lead to a lower position for employees in the companies, and that important Norwegian natural resources come into foreign ownership and out of Norwegian governance. SV parts, as opposed to e.g. The representative from the Right, these concerns, and it is very worrying that this regulation has not attracted attention and debate in Norwegian media – that it has been so easily addressed. The SE Act will bring about a significant and regrettable change in the strength of the relationship between owners and employees in the labour market. Norwegian companies can increasingly become branches without their own governing bodies. This is particularly worrying in a situation where employees of enterprises in different European countries are faced with a requirement to waive pay and to accept longer working hours in order to avoid moving to other countries. This change in power ratios and negotiating position is reinforced by the Co-decision Directive attached to this Regulation. SV believes that this is so serious that Norway must use its reservation rights in the EEA Agreement. We will vote against the whole law. Subsidy, we are promoting a proposal together with the Labour Party, and we are also promoting a proposal alone. We believe that in several cases of merger or the relocation of the main seat there may be several specific considerations which update the intervention of the authorities. The consideration of e.g. the security, financial system, power supply or management of natural resources of a country may mean that it should have access to prevent the movement of the main seat and the merger of a European company. We believe that the State should be allowed to raise objections to the move of the main seat and merger, and that such opening should be provided in the law. SV is critical that the Ministry does not have a further understanding of what is of general interest, since the Regulation allows Norwegian authorities to take up an objection that may prevent the head office from being moved out of Norway if necessary to ensure public interest. If the objection is put into effect, the Government may, within a period of two months, refuse the removal of the head office. Access to objection is restricted by the Ministry to ‘where sectoral legislation contains such a system today’. This is a sectoral legislation that arose in a situation in which companies could not move their head office as easily as European companies could. As a result, the objection can be put into practice only in relation to banks and other financial undertakings. We believe that the objection must also cover sectors currently regulated by concessions or other rules on ownership, such as: the petroleum activity or the farming industry. As far as the power industry is concerned, it is unfortunate to bind the freedom of action in this area before the issue of the right of repatriation has been resolved by the Stortinget. These are major and important changes, which should have been discussed in depth in Norway. We note that this does not happen, that there are very few who have asked specific questions about what this in practice implies, nor have they listened to the advice given by the LO, among others. in the case of company taxes, in the case of the working conditions of employees, and in the case of Norwegian legislation on own natural resources. I refer to the proposal SV has made in the setting. Subsidized, we want to support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e140	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e143	The legislative proposal implements the EU Regulation on the Statute of the European Company in Norwegian law. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The EEA economy is becoming increasingly integrated. It is therefore natural that larger companies also see the EEA area more as a single economic entity. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary that Norway also facilitates companies to adapt their activities to the European market. We believe that Norway, among others through the technological expertise available in relation to our oil industry, it will appear as a more attractive country to set up activities following the adoption of the SE Act. The Council Regulation contains two provisions opening objections based on ‘public interest’. First, it shall be opened for objection in the case of a merger. The Christian People's Party considers that it would be inappropriate to take objection by the formation of a European company by merger. The background to this is that the other interveners in the case of a merger will also apply to the formation of an SE by means of a merger. We therefore believe that a right of objection in the event of a merger would be superfluous. Secondly, when the head office is moved, there is a possibility of objecting. Moving a business out of Norway could have major consequences in certain situations. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the law of a right of objection in such situations. The government should be able to prohibit the relocation of a European company if it is contrary to public interests. However, it must be relatively much more so that the authorities can refuse a European company to move. However, where there is concern about the functioning of the market, the possibility should be clearly present. The Council Directive on employee participation in European companies is implemented in Norwegian law as a regulation of Section 3 of the SE Act. Several hearing bodies, including: The LO and the Finanzverbund have highlighted the complexity of the current regulation. There is a need for guidance on the regulation. In the setting, SV proposes that the Government prepare such guidance for the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties have come to the conclusion that we will support a proposal that the Government should draw up such guidance. We believe, however, that there is no need to draw up a guide to Section 3 until European companies have actually been established in Norway. At present, the number of companies that will benefit from this type of company is highly uncertain. On behalf of the Government Parties, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess on an ongoing basis the need to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act and to draw up such guidance if three or more European companies are established in Norway.’ According to the signals already given, I hope that this proposal will receive broad support in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e172	The representative Einar Holstad has drawn up the proposal he referred to, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e176	The case we are dealing with here is a case that has received significantly less attention and has been subject to much worse proceedings than it deserves, which unfortunately has established itself as a model for the treatment of EU cases in Norway. Whether this is because the majority does not want to focus on EU adaptation or because the majority are satisfied with the changes that are taking place is not always as easy to understand. I think it could probably be a little bit of both. The centre party warned already when this case was being dealt with by the EEA Committee of the EEA in 2002, against the consequences of accepting such a comprehensive EU legislation. The government promised to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the matter in its full scope. However, the proposition is very superficial in its discussion of the implications of the SE Regulation. Nor has the government been interested in making use of the possibilities actually contained in the Regulation to ensure a certain degree of national governance and control. Norway has the possibility, within the framework of the Directive, to adopt specific national rules relating to the conversion into SEs and to the relocation of SEs. This is an opportunity that the Government has not wanted to take advantage of. The centre party notes that a joint committee, including the case rapporteur from the Progress Party, wishes to tighten up the Government's proposal and establish a right of objection if the flagging of the head office of an SE is contrary to public interest. This is good, but it's by no means enough. The central party does not see the need for European companies as a form of company in Norway. On the other hand, we see clear arguments against this. The central party agrees with the assessment of the minority in the Committee and the LO’s assessment that the regulation would make it very easy for large companies to move their head office out of the country, that such relocation could lead to large tax losses for Norway, and that important Norwegian natural resources could come into foreign ownership and out of Norwegian governance. The centre party will support the SV's proposal for the use of the right of reservation in this case. The centre party records that there will be a majority in order to implement the SE Regulation in Norwegian law. The centre batch is favourably aligned with any proposal which may limit the scope and adverse effects of the Regulation. The central party supports the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV that any transfer of the head office be subject to approval by the Government. This will ensure a more active assessment of the individual case than if it is only suggested that the Government should be able to raise objections. On the same grounds, the Central Party will support the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal that the formation of SEs in the event of a merger must also be approved by the Government. The centre party will also vote in favour of the SV's proposal to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act and, in other words, also for the proposal put forward by the Right and Christian People's Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e189	I am pleased that Odelstinget now has to deal with the proposal for a new law on European companies. This bill facilitates the easier operation of companies that see more than one EEA country as their market. At the same time, Norway fulfils its obligation under the EEA Agreement by implementing the Regulation on European companies in Norwegian law. European companies shall be organised as public limited-liability companies and, as a general rule, shall be subject to the same rules. This applies both to company law rules and to rules governing the activities of the company, such as: concession requirements. The general rule is that the authorities have the same opportunity to regulate the activities of European companies as in public limited-liability companies. However, that Regulation limits the requirement of non-discrimination with public limited-liability companies. Cross-border relocation and aggregation pose challenges in relation to corporate democracy rules. I am therefore pleased that this regulation is accompanied by a directive to ensure the involvement of employees in European companies. This is intended to be implemented in Norwegian law in the form of a regulation of the law. I believe that the proposal that has been promoted by the government parties to follow developments in this area will be a practical way of ensuring that we take care of the concerns that I express here. The majority of the Judicial Committee has proposed a general framework for action in the case of the relocation of European companies. I understand this desire to give the authorities general access to prevent movement where this is deemed necessary in the interests of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e200	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 360]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e216	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e223	Both Stortinget and Odelstinget have today dealt with many important and interesting issues – and this case thus ends up in that category. It's probably dealing with one of the main challenges we have today: having a law that takes account of the technological developments that are taking place. It's a challenge, because here developments are going very fast, and the question is whether we can hang out legally. The background to this bill is international cooperation and the Council of Europe Convention to step up the fight against cybercrime. There are two main issues discussed and discussed by the Committee. One is how much you have to demand that things have a protective breach before you can take action against it. The second is to have hacker tools and other things available, and access to it – or abuse is perhaps a better word. The Committee has concluded, after discussion, that it wishes to remove the requirement to provide protection clauses in the second paragraph of §145a of the Criminal Code. The reason is simply that here you have to have a criminal law protection on data, at least in line with what you have for objects. We don't want this to be a specific requirement, but that there should be a general access to legislation in relation to it. With regard to the availability of hacker tools or other things to abuse data information, there has also been a discussion about it. It should initially be very principleal, whether it should be criminal to have it, or whether it is the use of such tools that should be the criminal. Here the Committee has shared. The majority believe that it should not be prohibited to have it, while the minority believes it should be. There are different reasons for that. But the majority have come to the conclusion that it is the act that is punishable, not the availability. You can find more examples of it, both in terms of weapons and other things. There is always the result of a person’s actions that determine whether it is harmful or not – otherwise there is only one thing lying there. With that, I recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e238	The increased use of computer technologies in recent decades has led society to meet new challenges and new forms of crime. Data crime has made important societal interests, businesses and individuals more vulnerable than before. The government has in the proposition, among other things: proposed new rules on temporary protection of electronically stored data. This will allow the police in each case to impose on the service provider and others to ensure data for up to 90 days at a time, in order to ensure that important evidence is not lost in criminal investigations. It is also proposed that the police, in the course of a computer search, should be able to require each person to provide the information necessary for access to the computer system itself. The Government further proposes that Norway should accede to the Council of Europe Convention of 8 November 2001 on the fight against crime related to information and communication technologies. The Convention contains rules on penalties, investigations and mutual assistance in criminal matters. The Committee considers that the existence of a breach of protection should no longer be a condition of punishment. The proposal proposes that this issue should be considered in a broader context through the work of the Datacrimacy Committee, inter alia. because the consultation round did not reveal a major need for changes at this stage. However, the right has chosen to join the majority of the Committee on this point. An important argument to support this is that private individuals who do not protect their data also need criminal protection. Moreover, the sharp increase in the use of computer systems for communication means that the possibility of obtaining unjustified access to data is much greater now than in 1985, when the latter was assessed. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party are in favour of Norway making use of the Convention’s right of reservation for the introduction of a new criminal order, which will affect the data virus, hacker tools and other devices specifically suitable for carrying out criminal offences. The right agrees that criminalisation of preparatory actions should be withheld. This has also been discussed in depth in the proposition. In our view, it speaks of significant damage potential, the confidence in electronic communications as a form of communication and also the apparent low risk of detection, so that possession of hacking tools and similar devices should be punishable. If Norway uses reservation access, it could mean that, in the view of the Right, it would not be possible to punish a person who makes hacker tools available to others online, even though it is certain that this tool will be used to commit various criminal offences with a low detection risk. The legislative measures will result in Norway fulfilling the obligations of the Convention. By ratifying the Convention, Norway contributes to strengthening international cooperation in these kinds of cases. It is absolutely central that the fight against this type of crime is taking place across borders. I address the proposal from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e264	The representative Ingerd Schou has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e267	The use of computer technology makes society more vulnerable than before. Technological developments are taking place very quickly and the potential for abuse is present. Data crime may affect essential social interests. It is therefore important that the legislation is adapted to the safety challenges we are now facing. This Convention has already been ratified by most European countries as well as the United States, Canada and Japan. In order to combat such cross-border crime as data crime will often be, it is important that Norwegian legislation is harmonised with equivalent legislation in other countries. The Ecocrime pointed out during the Ministry’s consultation round that they have recorded an increase in requests for ‘theft’ of information by means of computers. In many of these cases, the requirement for a breach of protection laid down in the second paragraph of Section 145 of the Criminal Code has not been fulfilled, and the person who has unlawfully provided further information has neither been prosecuted nor convicted. Christian People's Party believes that when, for example, an adulterous servant in an enterprise is unjustifiably copying information and passing it on to a competitor, the act is punishable. At a time when ICT services are increasingly valued, the criminal protection of data should be equivalent to the protection of objects. That is why we support the proposal of case rapporteur André Kvakkestad to remove the condition of a breach of protection, the second paragraph of Section 145 of the Penal Code. We believe that violations of protection for the future should not be a condition of punishment, but a punitive circumstance. The government has proposed to introduce a new provision into the penal code that will affect the data virus, hacker tools and other devices that are particularly suitable for carrying out criminal offences. The ban was also intended to affect the person who is illegally holding or spreading passwords belonging to others. However, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and SV do not wish to criminalise preparatory actions and want Norway to reserve itself against parts of the Council of Europe Data Crime Convention Article 6. The Christian People's Party regrets this. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority that there should be strong reasons for criminalising preparatory actions. However, we believe that there are serious reasons to prohibit preparation here. Data viruses, hackers and other devices particularly suitable for carrying out data crime have a limited legitimate use. Secondly, such things can be used to commit serious criminal offences that can cause significant damage and costs to society. Hacker tools and the like makes it possible to obtain information relevant to the security of the State and to infringe important private and social interests. If Norway uses the right of reservation, as the majority would like us to do, this means, for example: that you will not be able to punish someone who makes hackers available to others online. When hackers are made available on the Internet, it can be said to be very likely that they will be used to commit various criminal offences with low detection risk. With the background of what I have now said, the Christian People's Party believes that it should be punishable to be in possession of passwords and hackers, as well as to make such devices available to others. Although we do not receive the majority's support for the Government's proposal for a new § 145(b) of the Penal Code, the vote is otherwise unanimous, and that is good. The legal protection against cybercrime is strengthened, inter alia, by: by means of new rules on the provisional protection of electronically stored data and by enabling the police, in the course of a computer system search, to require each person to provide the information necessary for access to the computer system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e295	Society is becoming increasingly dependent on computer technology. This makes us vulnerable to new forms of crime. Data breach is a good example of that. Evolution also opens up the possibility for old forms of crime to be committed in new ways. For example, on the Internet, sexual images that are strongly violated daily with the use of children are spread, which in turn can lead to new abuses. Common to the various types of data crime is that they can cause serious harm, while at the same time the risk of detection is low. This presents society with new challenges, and it is important that the law is adapted to the demands of time. In my view, the legislative proposals that the Government has put forward, which emerge from the Council of Europe Convention to combat cybercrime, make an important contribution to this. I am therefore pleased that the Judicial Committee has mainly joined the proposals in the proposal. But a good law is not in itself sufficient. Experience has shown that data crime is often cross-border, while national law enforcement is linked to the state territory. Therefore, it may be necessary to cooperate with other countries in investigating such cases. Such cooperation may be difficult for several reasons, and may take a long time. These difficulties are exacerbated when several countries are involved. The fact that the Storting joins the Government's proposal to accede to the Council of Europe's Data Crime Union Convention will facilitate closer international cooperation. This will have a major impact on the fight against various types of data crime. I noticed that the Committee on Justice, on two points, is proposing changes to the bill in the proposal. Firstly, the Committee proposes that access to data by unauthorised persons be punishable for data breaches regardless of whether or not they have breached a protection. This involves a not insignificant extension of criminal liability in relation to the Government’s proposals. Secondly, the Committee proposes that Norway should reserve itself to the greatest extent possible against the obligations laid down in Article 6, such as: obliges countries to criminalise different forms of illegal possession with the passwords of others or other equivalent access data. The Committee's proposal is less extensive than the Government's proposal. I agree with the Committee that caution must be exercised in criminalising preparatory actions, and I am pleased to note that we differ in the need to be able to respond to the spread of computer viruses and data breach tools. The fight against data crime is an ongoing process. The adoption of the present legislative proposal is an important contribution, but the work has not been completed in any way. The choice of data criteria will therefore assess whether developments make it necessary to make further changes to the criminal law or to the criminal procedure law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e314	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 363]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e322	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e330	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Labour Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2 by Mr No Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 3, from Einar Holstad on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess on an ongoing basis the need to draw up a guide to the regulation provided for in Section 3 of the SE Act and to draw up such guidance if three or more European companies are established in Norway.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e388	The President has reason to believe that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e417	Paragraph 5 contains a proposal for the second and third sentences of the first subparagraph. That is proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the SE Act, the following provision is added: The second and third sentences of the first paragraph of Article 5 shall be replaced by the following:Decision on the formation of a European company by merger must be approved by the King. Such approval may be refused only if this is necessary for reasons of public interest, as set out below. SE Regulation Article 19.’;» We vote first on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e438	We then vote on the recommendation from the Committee to Sections 5 and 6. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e484	To the second and third sentences, there is a different proposal. That is proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second and third sentences of the second subparagraph of Article 7 shall be replaced by the following:Decision on the transfer of European companies must be approved by the King. Such approval may be refused only if this is necessary for reasons of public interest, as set out below. Article 8 of the SE Regulation. 14.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e501	It's going to be over the other terms and dots in the paragraph. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e734	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e746	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e760	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e768	During the debate, Mr Schou presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e824	Here lies a dissenting suggestion from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New § 145b is replaced by the following:He who manufactures, acquires, owns or makes available to others a) passwords or other data that may provide access to a computer system, or b) computer programs or other devices that are particularly suitable for committing criminal offences targeting data or computer systems are penalised by fines or prisons up to 6 months or both. Major offences are punishable by imprisonment for up to 2 years. In determining whether the infringement is serious, attention shall be paid, inter alia, to whether the data can provide access to sensitive information, whether the dissemination is extensive and whether the action creates a risk of significant harm. The vote will be taken at the next voting time and the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e912	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e922	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-04-lower.ana.ud2581e933	There is no record available.
