ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e45	The representatives Siri Hall Arnøy and Rita Tveiten, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the delegation of the European Parliament to the 2005 session of the Council of Europe, Part II, in Strasbourg, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, the representative of the Grand Duchy of Blankenborg, on leave from 25 April to 27 April for the representatives of Olav Akselsen, Haakon Blankenborg, Martin Engeset, Bent Höie, André Kåkkestad, Per Erik Monsen and Jorunn Ringstad, and from 26 to 27 April for the representatives of Øystein Djupedal from the representatives of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Thore A. Nistad on leave from 25 April to 27 April, both to take part in a Wilton Park conference in Alexandria, Egypt These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Heidi K. Larsen, are requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget on 26 and 27 April under the permission of the representative Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor Hordaland County: Pål BerberfjordFor Møre and Romsdal County: Rigmor Andersen EideFor Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl and Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise AarrestadFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Liv Signe NavarseteFor Sør-Trondellag County: Kirsti WelanderFor Vestfold County: Vidar AndersenFor Østfold County: Carsten Dybevig3. Morten Ørsal Johansen and Kirsti Welander are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e144	Harald Espelund, Pål Berberfjord, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Reidun Gravdahl, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Vidar Andersen and Carsten Dybevig are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e150	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e171	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study has been to illustrate the extent to which the Research Council takes care of Storting’s intention to benefit the authorities, industry and the public, by examining the Research Council’s action programmes. These programmes are primarily designed for the public sector, industry and stakeholder organisations and shall contribute to improving the knowledge base for planning at different levels of government, for the development of the public sector and for policy decisions. The study selected nine different action programmes and their selection was carried out in consultation with the Research Council. The main issues have been the extent to which research into the action-oriented programmes is effectively disseminated and actually used, and the extent to which objectives are formulated that are also reported. With the necessary and general reservation that research in its nature is long-term, that it may take time to see the results of research activities, and that there will always be uncertainty as to whether the research can provide answers to current issues, the Committee considers that the Research Council cannot be said to have incorporated a common overall strategy for user-oriented dissemination over the period of the survey, in the light of the lack of results seen in the National Audit Office's study: weaknesses in governance and operational procedures in relation to the action-oriented programmes and weaknesses in the target formulation, reporting and follow-up of the programmes. The large amounts allocated annually to the Research Council and the fact that the Stortinget has previously clearly assumed that the Research Council is responsible for the user-oriented dissemination of knowledge and technology related to the Research Council's own programmes should, in the Committee's view, have manifested itself to the fact that the Research Council made research information available far more widely, not least on the Internet, during the investigation period. The Committee has now noted that there is ongoing work in relation to this making available, but during the investigation period it was far from good enough. As part of its control, the National Audit Office has carried out a user survey which suggests that it is a good thing to go before the dissemination of research results can be said to be user-oriented enough. In the case of five out of nine programmes surveyed, a majority of users say they are satisfied with the availability of information on the research results. It can't be said to be satisfactory. At the same time, depending on how you read the statistics, it can't be called a failure when 58 pst. has had in total the medium or medium-term benefits of programme research. So the numbers can be read in different ways. However, the Committee has noted that there is a process in progress to improve the administration of the programmes by the Research Council and that the requirements of the new Financial Regulation are emphasised as appropriate in further work. The Committee also takes the view that a clear strategy is being developed for a more user-oriented dissemination than has now been the case, and that the Stortinge is being properly informed about the progress and outcome of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e202	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e218	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has examined the National Audit Office’s examination of the State’s commitment to electronic procurement. The background to the study is that in 1998 the Ministry of Labour and Administration took the initiative to invest in electronic commerce in public procurement. A five-year programme was established aimed at introducing electronic commerce into general government, at both municipal, county and state level. The aim of this was, of course, to reduce the total cost of public procurement and to improve the quality of procurement. A strong savings potential was identified as a result of the programme — there has been a marked profit potential of DKK 7 billion per year. Several objectives were established for the programme. The quantitative objectives of the programme were set at 50 pst. all public procurement was to be carried out by electronic commerce by the end of 2003. By the same deadline, 20 pst. of the total purchasing value through electronic trading processes. The national audit report reveals that the results of the programme are completely marginal in relation to the objectives set. Instead of 50 pst. the use of electronic channels in purchasing the survey shows that only 0,06 pst. has actually been acquired by electronic processes. The results in this field must therefore be said to be almost absent. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision when it says that the objectives of the programme were too ambitious. At the same time, the majority of the Committee would point out that it is obvious that the programme has not received the necessary attention from the management of the department. In this respect, the majority of the Committee considers that it is indicative that the Ministry itself has failed to use electronic purchasing channels. Had management focused more on this and used the solutions themselves, the programme as a whole is likely to have gained a much greater impetus. The program has had about 13 million. kr at its disposal in the years in which it has been in progress. This must be said to be very limited in relation to the ambitious objectives set and the significant savings potential identified for the programme. In this context, the majority of the Committee would point out in general that it is essential that programmes and projects that are being launched should be given a realistic opportunity to have an impact. It serves no purpose to initiate projects only for the sake of the projects themselves, and reports and programmes that end up in the drawer are of very limited value. The Committee is aware that this programme has now been concluded but has registered that some of its elements will be continued. It is therefore positive when the Department announces that the attention to electronic trading processes is now strengthened. The Committee assumes that the continuing activities will be followed up in such a way that the benefits of the ETA can actually be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e237	Electronic commerce obviously has great advantages and benefits in itself. The ambitions of developing e-commerce solutions in the public sector have been great, and are still great. The National Audit Office's investigation is an important and correct indication that we have so far failed to reach where we would like to. This is an area in which more targeted work is important and necessary, not only to meet expectations, but, most importantly, to realise the great potential for profit that exists through the increased use of electronic commerce. It will contribute to better procurement practices, and it will help us to release resources for the tasks that are most important for the community to solve. As indicated in the submission, the Riksrevision study covers the period up to the end of 2003, whereas the ETA was only completed at the end of 2004/2005. The market place ehandel.no was put into operation in June 2002 and 2003 was therefore the first full year of service provision. Fortunately, by the end of last year, the number of subscribers had increased from 17 to 30 and the turnover more than fivefold compared to 2003. I am pleased to note that this development is continuing into 2005. Among other things, the health sector is becoming a major player in the market place ehandel.no. I have also noticed the National Audit Office’s reference to the fact that the Ecommerce Programme did not help public enterprises that wanted to coordinate purchasing volumes in common framework agreements. Until it is noted that purchases in the country are and become a decentralised liability. This is also true in the municipal sector. The market place ehandel.no is an offer for public enterprises for an electronic and modern tool that can be used to discharge local responsibilities in a good and efficient way. It facilitates the dissemination of information about own contracts to employees and facilitates the effective use of contracts concluded. There is something not least the suppliers appreciate very much. In the context of the National Audit Office's survey and the socio-economic gains in better public procurement processes, I have already taken some action. All departments have been asked to give top priority to the implementation of electronic purchases and e-commerce in their 2005 letters of allocation to the agencies and establishments concerned. The same is, of course, expected by the departments themselves – of course also my own. A letter of assignment is the most powerful management tool in the department, the budget has been adopted in concrete terms to the department. In addition, there will be an action plan to increase the use of electronic purchases and e-commerce during this year. Based on an annual turnover of more than DKK 240 billion, it goes without saying that small improvements in public procurement processes can bring significant benefits. Therefore, in my view, there is no compelling argument not to make use of the technology to improve this purchasing process, ensuring it – not least because of the socio-economic rational and correct results of e-commerce. I would also like to take this opportunity to inform the Stortinget that the Danish consultant company Rambøll Management has recently carried out a thorough investigation and status of the use of ICT in public acquisitions in all the 25 EU countries, under the mandate of the Commission. We have also carried out similar studies for the EEA countries Norway and Iceland. The final report is now available. The conclusions of Rambøll are that Norway has made the right effort, and that where it is invested, Norway is actually at the top of Europe. This applies both to public spending on the use of electronic tools in the procurement process and to the basic work done through the Ecommerce programme. The State has prioritised the establishment of a system of electronic notices through the DOFFIN database and for e-commerce on the e-commerce market site.no. It is the right end to begin in, says Rambøll, and DOFFIN and the marketplace ehandel.no are now leading in their battle in Europe. Rambøll's advice to us is: Norway has no reason to wait for developments within the EU. There is an advantage for both public purchasers and suppliers to be at the forefront. Activities benefit both organisationally and economically by switching to electronic purchases, while Norwegian suppliers will benefit from international considerations of first having to deal with new electronic systems and processes. I will keep the Stortinget informed about developments in the field of public electronic procurement and e-commerce through the annual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e275	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2158]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e283	Then Stortinget goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25.ana.ud1276e337	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 17 March 2005: ‘The Government is asked to file a case in which information obligations are reviewed, in the context of what already exists under the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act, with a view to simplifying and coordinating them, without reducing the level of consumer protection.’;»
