ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e38	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him. Question 6, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e64	This question has been drawn. Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e73	This question, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e76	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Through the media it has emerged that it is planned to shut down the meteorological stations on Jan Mayen and Hope on Svalbard. The Minister of Education and Research believes that this is wise in view of, among other things: the enforcement of the 200-mile fishing boundary and the responsibility of Norway for climate research?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e85	The question from the representative, Mr Konglevoll, was originally asked to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The reason I answer the question is that the Meteorological Institute is managed by the Ministry of Education and Research. The background to the media inventories to which the representative refers is a proposal promoted by the Meteorological Institute against its own government this autumn. The proposal was to shut down the business at Jan Mayen and Hope in 2005. The Foundation has justified this proposal with fear that the infrastructure of Jan Mayen will disappear when Loran C is laid down at the end of the current year. This infrastructure is a prerequisite for the operations of the Meteorological Institute on the island. The Meteorological Institute has now drawn up the proposal and its Board of Directors has decided to maintain its operations at Jan Mayen and Hope in 2005. The main reason for this is in particular that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry of St.prp. No 1 for 2004-2005 writes the following: ‘The Government’s assessment is that the Norwegian presence on Jan Mayen should be continued regardless of the lapse of the Loran-C/NELS Agreement.’ With regard to the need for infrastructure and staffing of the Jan Mayen community after 2005, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has notified an assessment of these issues in the context of the 2006 State budget. Although closure in 2005 is no longer a current issue, I would nevertheless like to make some comments on the two issues raised by the representative. Firstly, the importance of stations for climate research. If the manned stations had been closed, they could be replaced by autostations. These could have made some observations satisfactorily, while other observations would not be of sufficient quality for climate research purposes. Overall, a closure would thus have a negative impact on Norwegian climate research. The second point of the representative concerned the maintenance of the Norwegian fishing zone. With regard to the maintenance of Norwegian sovereign rights and administrative responsibilities, physical presence is no prerequisite. However, there has never been any doubt as to the desirability of continued Norwegian presence. Here, the need for preparedness related to rescue operations is an important consideration. To conclude, I would say that the Meteorological Institute no longer plans to shut down the meteorological stations at Jan Mayen and Hope. Let me also stress that the government has no plans to wind up the infrastructure of the society of Jan Mayen, on which the meteorological station depends, even after the closure of Loran C.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e105	First, I would like to thank you for your answer. It is a good time since the question was sent, and the answer that the stations should not be shut down is as far as no surprise, but it is interesting to hear the Council's response. So the main reason why this hasn't happened is that the Meteorological Institute has changed the decision. The council says that the government has no plans to put them down. Would this mean that the Government has now increased its focus on the importance of maintaining these stations? Is there any government going to take a political responsibility to follow up on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e112	As I said in my previous reply, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has notified an assessment of these questions in connection with the 2006 State Budget. So there are no longer plans to shut down the meteorological stations, and the government has no plans to shut down the infrastructure for the society of Jan Mayen. But here I am added that the question concerns a number of sectors and also other ministers, and it will not be entirely irrelevant if the questioner also addresses some of these issues in other contexts with some of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e119	I agree with the last point. When I was so bold that I initially asked the foreign minister the question, it was because I believe that the maintenance of these meteorological stations, among other things. is about the enforcement of the 200-mile fishing line. This is how Stortinget is waiting for a big message, which is a follow-up to the North Region Committee's investigation towards the North!, which has not yet arrived. Many have missed a strategy from the Government regarding a bet in the northern regions. Is it such that at least the Minister of Education and Research believes that the maintenance of meteorological stations is also important in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e126	I have answered the question because I have the constitutional responsibility of the Meteorological Institute. There are a number of questions raised here, and, as I said, the Government's position is that sovereignty in and of itself does not require physical presence, but the desirability of it is present. I would like to recommend a closer dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries on the issues related to this and fishing rights, fisheries interests, etc. But I shall pass on to him the views that have been expressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e137	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: «An older man had to amputate a foot because of many years ago. an accident at work. In order to function in society, the man has been granted a social security car. Upon renewing the car in 2004, he did not come within the price category that provides room for automatic transmission. This despite the fact that he has always had this, and that the traffic station has confirmed that automatic transmission is necessary for him if he is to drive a car. Is the Council of State saying that this discount is correct, and is it possible? the need to amend the regulatory framework.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e146	The decision-making authority in individual cases under the People's Security Act is known as a social security authority. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot therefore go into this matter in particular, but I still want to give an explanation of the relevant regulations on car benefits, and answer the question in the extension of it. Persons with disabilities who cannot use a car without the installation of special equipment or adaptation may receive grants from the public interest to cover in full the necessary expenditure for this special equipment or for adaptation, without any economic needs test. However, equipment which can be supplied as standard equipment from a factory is not considered to be special equipment. More of this equipment is still being delivered by default today. This applies to automatic transmission equipment - mentioned in the case in question - servo, central lock, passenger heater, engine heater, etc. This was unanimously adopted by the European Parliament in the context of the 1995 state budget. Already then, in other words, there was a fundamental change in the processing of automatic gear, since it is no longer considered as special equipment. Today's car hire system in public safety is a differentiated social welfare system that distinguishes between normal passenger cars, so-called group 1 cars, and a custom van, group 2 cars. The scheme was introduced in its current form from 1 April 2003. The benefit for Group 1 cars is granted as a pure cash benefit in the form of a subsidy determined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The grant is not linked to one particular car. For Group 2 cars, there is a regular free-of-interest loan that is linked to one particular car. Proven loans are granted up to a limit fixed by the Ministry. At present, this limit is 150000 kroner. The remainder of the capital requirement, other than NOK 150 000, is not tested as necessary, but is fully covered by the public interest by an interest-free and non-deductible loan. One of the intentions of the new car support scheme has been to transfer resources from group 1 cars to group 2 cars. A user survey is now being carried out both for those receiving social benefits for group 1 cars and for those receiving social benefits for group 2 cars. The purpose is to check whether Group 2 users have received the right car and equipment, and whether the follow-up after the car has been delivered is satisfactory. For persons receiving support for group 1 cars, the purpose of the study is to see if users have received sufficient guidance in choosing a car. This study will be ready in good time before Easter. If the survey shows that users are not satisfied, it will be a priority task for the social security system to find related measures. I will consider making changes to the legislation on car benefits, if it turns out that this study documents a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e161	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is hardly a single case, there are probably a lot of these cases. It may seem like a small matter for the Storting, but for those involved, it's a big matter, and an important matter to be able to function in society. It is then important that the legislation is such that it stimulates participation, not exclusion. I understand that the reason why the person I've used as an example here doesn't get this social security car is that he's using prostheses to fight off the wheelchair and manage to walk again. Had he not done so, there would have been no discussion on this matter. Then he had got the car he needed. So here there absolutely has to be a change of legislation to not exclude people in this way. The council says he will consider a change of rules. What timetable does he see?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e172	I do not want to conclude, based on the information given in the question, as the questioner now does, what is the reason for the refusal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the applicant has access to appeal the decision before the County Street Agency, if he finds the basis for it, and then this case will be tried under the legislation. However, a deliberate decision has been made here in Stortinget that equipment which cannot be considered as special equipment, such as: automatic transmission, shall not be treated in the social security scheme as if it were special equipment. And as the case appears to me, this seems to be the background to the case being assessed differently on the renewal of the car. But as I said, there are speculations based on the information available in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e179	I thank you again for the answer. I see the answer as positive in this respect that the Council of State will look at the legislation on the basis of the study that is now being carried out, and I will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e186	I just want to confirm that I want to do that. Work progress is that this user survey will be completed before Easter. The Rikstrøgdeverket will then make its assessment and, in the course of its extension, the Ministry will assess whether there is a need for regulatory changes or whether sufficient measures may be needed under the social security system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e195	The question asked was that it was submitted in the previous week, but I still wanted to maintain it. I will then ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Veterinary preparedness agreements in many local communities are causing concern and unacceptable emergencies. What is the background of current legislation by the Council of State to ensure satisfactory watch arrangements both in the immediate and in the longer term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e206	At a meeting with the Norwegian veterinary association on 10 January, we agreed on a basis for negotiations on a clinical veterinary watch agreement for 2005. During the period of negotiations and until the outcome of any vote on the agenda, the veterinarians will participate in a watch regime based on the framework applicable until the end of the year. I am pleased that we have found a solution that allows animals and animal owners to now receive regular service from the veterinarians on a daily basis. We are now entering a period of demanding negotiations, but as I assess the situation, there is a mutual willingness to find a negotiated solution. Negotiations shall be based on existing legislation as well as documents from previous negotiation processes and be based on Stortingen’s decision to grant veterinary preparedness for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e217	I thank you for your answer. It is good for many animals, animal owners and communities that the veterinarians are now on guard. The central party is very satisfied that the parties are now in the solution dialogue. I will not dwell on the wonder that is both upon us and upon others in relation to the fact that the Council of State let it go ten days before he reached in, with the following 24 dead animals and much unnecessary suffering. Instead, I would like to point out what has been said about the vigilance when the Economic and Social Committee deals with the budget. The majority in the committee then stated that the Council of State returned to it in the revised budget, while the majority in the Chamber stated that it provided an indication of a holistic solution in the Community proposal. I now expect the Council of State to see the need for both, both a matter in the revised national budget and a matter in the municipal bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e226	Now we agree with the Veterinary Association on the framework for these negotiations. They start now and will continue intensively for the next 14 days, and we have given ourselves a deadline until Monday 24 to arrive at a negotiated solution. Now was the time to get it done. The story of what has happened until now has not yet come out. First of all, there has been one party’s version of what has happened, and the contact has been extensive throughout the harvest, reasonably. This could have been said a lot about it, but I don't want to do that, because I want to create the best possible background climate for the negotiations that are now to take place in the next few days, and which I have a good hope of leading to a solution that will serve the veterinary preparedness in the future, and within the economic framework that governments and magnification can manage to live with. I would also like to remind you that the Central Party did not propose an increase in the appropriations for veterinary preparedness. It was probably only the Progress Party that did in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e235	Finally, it is quite clear that if the Council of State wants to, he can, with a number behind him, increase the promises of the revised budget, i.e. according to the comments of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party. But then the budget proposal also shows that it may look as if the government has planned that the municipalities will take over the security. Then it is very important that there is an economic foundation at the bottom, and it is also important that the municipalities be heard and told before such a decision is taken. Local authorities have experience in changes, for example: from pre-treated to ready-to-print patients, and when showered by health professionals. The money is not in place, but the municipalities will still have new tasks. So I'll ask the Council of State briefly to comment on what process he sees going on there. I expect him to confirm today that the municipalities will be heard before he makes such a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e242	At least the councils will have to comment briefly - for speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e245	It is such that, in parallel with the acute situation associated with 2005, a transfer of responsibility for the watchkeeping of the veterinarians to the municipalities from 2006 onwards is being carried out. And based on the Sagelvmo committee, there's a broad consensus on this. The veterinarians think this is a good solution, and KS thinks it's a good solution. Therefore, it is important to rest around the conflict that has now occurred, precisely in order to create a good climate in order to find a good arrangement for transition to municipalities. It is not to push a problem, because the state does not solve this well enough, that it does so, but it is in recognition that Norway is so different in this area. There is such a large density of animals in the county as for example. The representative Meltveit Kleppa comes from, in relation to other parts of Norway, that we must have a much greater degree of tailoring, and so that we can have veterinarians distributed throughout the country. That tailoring sea can do to the municipalities. It is not possible for the state and the ministry to sit and do. That's the background of that thinking. And of course, we have to make sure that it's economic enough to get that tailor-meal around.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e252	The President will allow himself to recall that if you want more extensive discussions on a case complex, perhaps the Interpellation Institute is more suitable than the Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e266	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e272	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Research shows that we have a primary school that does not equalise the differences, but is largely involved in reproducing and reinforcing the differences in society. Students with high-school parents are those who have the greatest chance of success in school. One fifth of the students leave primary school today without good enough reading and writing skills. There will be fewer teachers, more children, larger groups and less sharing hours in school. Does the Council of State consider this development to be out of line training for each individual child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e281	It is a goal that the school should provide students with equivalent training and good learning outcomes. In recent years, we have received better documentation on the state of Norwegian school, through research, statistics, and Norwegian and international studies. As the representative of Lena Jensen points out, Norwegian school has not sufficiently succeeded in realizing the ideal of adapted training and the possibility of social mobility. This may also be one of the explanations that students have a medium motivation for learning, as an analysis of data from the school inspectors shows in the 2002/2003 school year. Norwegian students are weak in learning strategies. There is reason to believe that there is a close link between adapted training on the one hand and lack of learning motivation, learning strategies and learning outcomes on the other. The representative, however, Lena Jensen is wrong when she refers to the development of resource use in Norwegian school. Resource use in municipal schools is at a high and stable level. On 22 December, the Central Statistical Office published the latest figures from the Primary School Information System (GSI). The statistics show that teacher density has increased from the previous school year to this year, from 12.3 students per year. learn to 12.1 The average group size in primary schools has also remained stable, 13.6 students per year. group last year and 13.7 this year. The school’s adulthood, which includes groups of occupations other than teachers, has also improved, from 11.2 students per year. adult in the previous school year to 10.9 this year. Although the average size of the group has not increased, statistics nevertheless reveal that some schools have increased the size of the group. As in previous school years, the county will therefore be asked to examine in detail whether these schools are using too little resources to comply with the provisions of the Training Act on the proper size of the group. The figures also show that the proportion of pupils with special education has decreased in the last year, especially among students who receive less than two hours of special education per week. This may indicate that schools adapt training for the individual in ordinary student groups, and in that case it is a desirable development. The statistics of the SSB confirm the latest figures from the local government’s own financial reporting, KOSTRA, which shows that resource use per capita. Students in primary school have increased, from about NOK 59 000 in 2002 to NOK 63 500 in 2003. There are local differences, but the main picture is that municipalities give high economic priority to the school, and thus are increasing. I have said in the past that the Norwegian school has a good starting point for success. This presented the Government of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. The knowledge we now have about school, we need to use it to make it better. The Storting gave in its Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 mainly support the Communication’s proposals for improving learning outcomes and quality, including a comprehensive focus on adapted training and development of skills for teachers, instructors and school leaders starting these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e300	I would like to thank you for your answer. So we have a primary school that reproduces and reinforces the differences in society. We have a school where you can clearly point out who are winners and losers in the system in advance. For us as politicians, addressing this is one of the most important challenges we face. No matter what number the Council of State chooses to use, we know that there is a clear change in a number of Norwegian schools - in the form of fewer teachers, larger student groups and fewer sharing hours. These developments continue due to the poor local economy. We know that the municipalities want to prioritize the school - as has been done in the past, over all years - but because of the poor municipal economy, the school has had to take its share of the cuts. Governments point to teachers as the most important resource for getting a good school. That is why I think it is necessary to have a new teacher training, which reinforces pedagogics. Further training of teachers is important, but there is also a need for more adults and teachers in school. Doesn't the Council of State mean this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e311	That's quite right -- as my party claimed before the previous election campaign, and now emphatically documented: Norwegian school is not a single school, but a different school. It does not help to reduce differences while students go to school, but to maintain, reproduce and partially reinforce them. I think it's very gratifying that this is now a recognition that has sunk into the whole political environment. But as I said in my first answer, there won't be fewer teachers or larger groups. The statistics we have - Lena Jensen is aware that we're dealing with COSTRA and GSI - is what the Stortinget has to deal with: the teacher density has increased from last year to this year, the adult density has increased from last year to this year, and the group size is about the same - completely contrary to the many predictions of a different evolution. That there are local differences, it's not new -- it's always been. There's a lot of excitement in this room that we're going to have local democracy, that it's the municipalities that will ultimately decide how much it's going to be invested in school. What's new is that this government has said that we're going to have special supervision of those schools that use the least resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e323	I would like to thank you for your answer. I want to point out another area that is important for improving the quality of school. A new plan is now on the stairs. The hearing design has been published. What it says is interesting. That's a lot of good and a lot of concrete goals. But to achieve these goals, it is important that all schools have the tools. If you want to learn how to swim - master two different types of swimming, one on your stomach and one on your back - the pools must be filled with water. If you want to learn other food cultures, learn how to make different types of food from other cultures, you have to fill the creations with ingredients. Studies have shown that the most successful students in school are those who have more than 500 books at home. We know that our school libraries are getting worse and worse -- fewer and fewer books, poorer quality and shorter opening hours. My specific question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State bet on the libraries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e334	Firstly, I have noticed that the representative Lena Jensen is very pleased with the draft curricula available from the curriculum groups. This is not a formal draft consultation – they will be sent out during January. Then it'll be a formal, but also a very open, consultation round for anyone who wants to give in to it. Then the plans will be set for the summer. I get the impression that the representative Lena Jensen believes that the only thing that is needed to solve the problems we have in Norwegian school is more resources. But we're the country in the world that uses the most resources -- but we don't have the best results. Personally, I am much more concerned with enhancing school competence. We've got a new teacher training, which is much better than the one we've had, and we're in the process of implementing a historical lift of skills for teachers, instructors and school leaders. It is in the amount of NOK 2-3 billion or about ten times as much as the commitment made in the context of reform 97. It's the most important thing. We're also betting on libraries and school libraries, that's important. There's a good upgrade in Norwegian school right now. Also using the cultural school bag, it is invested in literature. In addition, unlike Finland, Norwegian schoolchildren have many books at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e351	The question is as follows: ‘Both isolated incidents reported through the media and statements by so-called growth experts point to a clear and growing problem of violence in school. Norwegian school is not just struggling with a bullying problem and a trouble problem; we have now had a violent problem involving violence between students and between students and teachers. Things may also indicate that the major challenge lies in primary school. What will the Council of State do to combat violence in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e360	It is absolutely right that through the media and national and international research we are reminded that we have problems related to violence, bullying and unrest in Norwegian school. It creates insecurity and negatively affects the working environment and performance of both pupils and teachers. All those working in school - children, young people and adults - are entitled to a safe and good working and learning environment. For the more detailed analysis, I think it might still be important to distinguish between violence problems, bullying problems and what we can call common troubles and unrest. When it comes to violence, I don't have any evidence that we have a growing problem in school. Fortunately, more recent data suggest that the number of students involved in problem behaviour has not increased in recent years. The NOVA Research Institute considers that it is possible to detect a decrease in problem behaviour from 1994 to 2003, particularly for degenerative behaviour, which is closely related to the use of violence. This is joyous, but not satisfactory. We should not accept violence or problem behaviour that seems threatening, which can harm or hinder the learning work of the individual. In the case of bullying, national figures from the Behavioral Research Centre show that 30 pst. fewer children are being bullied now than three years ago. It shows, I think, that targeted and systematic work is actually producing results. I want to continue the important work and cooperation between the parties that manifesto against bullying provided. This work will now also be continued at international level. School must have zero tolerance for problem behaviour as violence, as for bullying. The absence of threatening behaviour is a prerequisite for creating a safe and good learning environment. So this is what we're talking about as trouble and trouble. Reports from PISA and TIMS have revealed that teachers, students and principals believe that there is too much trouble and unrest in Norwegian school and too much waste of time. Students also report that they believe they have less benefit from school than students in other countries. Barriers and unrest are reported to be a major problem in Norway than in all other countries surveyed. But, fortunately, the reports also show that some schools are able to create positive conditions and a good working environment. All in school - both management, teachers, students and parents - must agree on what is unacceptable behaviour, and clear rules and procedures should be established to follow-up breaches of the legislation. In addition, I think it is important to strengthen the authority of teachers and school leaders. Through the competence development programme we will have for school management, this should be placed on the agenda at the highest level. The Knowledge Lift will require the physical and psychosocial working and learning environment in all schools and other training places. The level of knowledge includes, inter alia: a strategy for developing the skills of teachers, instructors and school leaders. Here, the prevention and reduction of behavioural problems in schools will be an important topic, whether in the field of violence, bullying or fighting and unrest. The level of knowledge also includes the new national quality assessment system, which consists of four main areas. In the second main area, the school and learning environment of the students is monitored. The school port.no shall also provide guidance on interpretation of the data material and guidance resources for development work with information on current actions, methods and examples of how to address the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e373	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council that we are talking about three specific issues. I'm asking about the one relationship that's about violence in school. According to what I have registered, violence statistics from, for example, show: The Oslo Police for 2003 said that seven teachers were subjected to violence and that 54 of the reported acts of violence in Oslo were committed in schools. I have also registered that the education seat in Oslo refers to 166 cases of gross violence in the first half of 2004, and that the figures for violence are 50 pst. higher than the previous year. In other words, we have a clear and clear problem of violence, to separate from the issues of bullying and unrest, which are important enough. We have a problem of violence, and we record that we are increasingly having a problem of violence. What are we doing to combat this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e380	Since we don't have certain information about this, I think the wisest thing I can do is to deal with professional environments or research environments about how we might be able to identify developments in violence at school. I think that might be reason to take it up. I also think that there might be reason in this connection, whether in the area of bullying or violence, to address issues related to relationships other than behavior or things that take place between the students. It is also revealed that there are things going on between the teacher and the student. This concerns the working environment of teachers. There are also violence episodes that go beyond the teachers at their place of work. I therefore think there might be reason to expand this bullying perspective somewhat, to ask ourselves whether we can better identify the situation in terms of violence, and whether we should be more concerned with the working environment of the teachers and not just the learning environment of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e387	I thank you again for the answer, which was more directly related to what I asked for. I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up, among other things. relationships related to registration. It has been pointed out by various teams that teachers do not report violence cases, and that neither the schools nor the school owners - in most cases it is the municipalities - ask for such reports. We must not put ourselves in such a position in relation to the problem of violence that we make the same mistake that we have made over many years in the area of bullying, that we adults close their eyes and later on as if this were not happening. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in 1997, the EU actually called for an alarm on an increasing problem of violence in the school and took action. As far as I know, Norway has also been involved in this in connection with the Connect programme. Similarly, we know per person. Today, based on the latest registrations, the problem of violence is increasing. That gives cause for concern. I hope the Council of State will look at this with considerable force.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e396	I fully agree with Mr Sortevik that we have to assume that there is considerable darkness, especially in the case of various types of abuse against teachers, that there is an underreporting there. Therefore, there may be reason to make a more systematic effort to try to identify the situation. Fortunately, I think the overall situation is better in Norway than in other countries. I also believe that we can hope for a positive development, because the measures to be taken, if any, against fighting, unrest, disciplinary problems, bullying or violence problems are sometimes coincident. The implementation of measures such as: Connect, which deals with general rules on folk and behaviour at school, will almost necessarily have a positive impact on both general disciplinary problems, bullying and what is more serious, namely violence. And the Connect program, which is implemented in many Oslo schools, I think is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e405	I have a question for the Minister of Health and Health with the following words: ‘The 2005 draft budget of the Ministry of Health and Health refers to the fact that international figures transferred to Norwegian conditions would indicate that ‘accident events’ in the healthcare system result in 2000 deaths and 15 000 permanently injured patients per year. The cost is estimated at approx. NOK 2 billion. What does the Council of State think is the explanation of such dramatic figures, and what is being done to reduce this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e414	The figures referred to by the representative Asmund Kristoffersen stem from a report prepared by Professor Peter F. Hjort for the Social and Health Directorate in 2003. Hjort refers to studies from Australia, Denmark, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, where it has been found that on average every 10 patients are exposed to an unwanted event during their stay at the hospital. Such events may in some cases lead to fatal outcomes for the patient. Similar studies have not been carried out in Norway, but we do not have the basis to assume that conditions in Norway are significantly different from those in these countries. Based on the assessments carried out in these studies, perhaps 40-50 pst. these deaths are prevented. I agree with the representative that these figures may seem dramatic. As research has shown that some of these events can be prevented, in 2004 the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has commissioned the Directorate-General for Health to investigate measures to improve patient safety in Norway. Of the measures proposed, I would first point to the planning of a national patient safety register to list and analyse adverse events and conditions affecting patients in Norwegian hospitals. The purpose of this register is to prevent adverse events. The project also involves the development and distribution of information material, scientific literature and patient safety tools. In a few weeks, the Social and Health Directorate will distribute a new guide to the regulation on internal control in social and health services. It provides concrete advice on how to improve health safety and quality. I would also refer to the importance of the country's around 60 medical quality records related to specific medical conditions. At the end of 2005, it is an objective that ten medical quality records are established nationally, under the direction of regional health establishments. Such records contain some data relevant to patient safety, such as: complications of surgical procedures. Registries can provide knowledge of such events and can often provide very good answers to what measures may affect risk. In 2003, nine national quality indicators for specialist healthcare were introduced and a further six indicators were introduced in 2004. Indicators include both somatic hospitals and mental health protection. Indicators shall provide the basis for management information at institution level and provide a basis for quality improvement for the professional environments. The system of national quality indicators will be extended and further developed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e429	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that there are very serious figures the department has provided, and I think the Council of State was both open and honest in its answer. It is serious that the search light has been so low on such serious conditions as the ones described here, with perhaps up to 2000 incorrectly treated patients who have led to death, and with many thousands of lasting damage. I guess that's what we call hospital losses in another word. One should of course be careful to be sloppy about the cause of this, but it is clear, as the Council of State also indicated in its response, that this has to do with the quality of the work being done. Then I would like to ask the Council of State a little more concretely: how can one ensure that good methods and valuable clinical research results actually reach the individual hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e440	There are two factors: one is the fact that there are errors in Norwegian hospitals that often have their causes in what can be called personal accidents and human errors. What has been part of a culture in the Norwegian health care system has been sweeping some of these accidents under the carpet. What's important about internal control is to make mistakes so that you can analyze them and see what you can learn from them. One of the reasons for this register is now being established. Once a loss has been made, an analysis of what has been done can then be put in place to prevent others from making a similar loss. The other relationship is, of course, getting out medical research in the form of a supervisor, etc., and as I said in my answer, the Social and Health Directorate will actually distribute in a few weeks the guide that is now being created, just to inform us about, among other things. medical progress which has also been detected on the basis of errors made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e447	What the council here mentions about mistakes that have been made that have not come up in the daylight is very important, and that is one of the reasons why I asked this question. In that way, I'm very happy with what the department here has done to get it out. But this is not enough. It's obvious that this is actually mishandling. This means that one must have more knowledge-based methods of treatment, one must have better descriptions of treatment, and one must have safer procedures. But it's not that no method is so good that you become independent of health professionals' knowledge. I believe that we need to put the search light on the content of specialist training in order to ensure the qualifications of specialists. The question then is, can the Council of State think of factors that concern the quality of specialist training and thus make the specialists better qualified to do the job they meet daily in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e454	Specialist training is another very important piece, but I don't think it's one of the main reasons for this. As far as I am aware of the medical environment, one of the main reasons why it can be said that in many areas more defects and hospital losses occur, is that things are treated much more complex today than they were done in the past. Treatment of patients far older than was done in the past, and treatment of patients with a much longer progress in the course of their disease, although action is being taken. It's clear that the possibilities of not getting the desired result are definitely getting bigger. The second thing I can tell the representative is that in the five business meetings I now have - I had two yesterday and will have meetings on Friday and Monday - I introduce internal control procedures anchored in the board and internal audit in all five health companies, where the audit of internal control of a medical nature is of course the most important. In fact, there is only one hospital in this country that is ISO certified and quality assurance will be the main issue in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e467	‘The Minister of Health has stated that the Government needs to get a full overview of housing and care provision for mental ill people in the municipalities before psychiatric hospitals or day-care centres in psychiatric treatment institutions are closed. Psychiatric lucky day places are being laid down. Does the State Council consider that the signals given are sufficient to be followed by health businesses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e474	A key prerequisite for the Roadworthiness Plan is the establishment and substantial restructuring of the provision of services in the field of mental health protection. The objective of the restructuring is to build up a decentralised service that works in close interaction with the municipalities both in relation to the individual user and in terms of guidance, consultation and education. Norway has up to 80-90 pst. of the total resources related to the operation of daily distributions, which are also very high in a European context. Therefore, there is a clear premise and expectation to turn resource use in the field of mental health protection into a significant increase in daily and outpatient services and outpatient forms of work. In the case of psychiatric hospitals, this involves, on the one hand, upgrading the provision of active treatment facilities and, on the other, winding up this type of institution as the provision of services in the municipalities builds up. Therefore, it is important that municipalities and health businesses are coordinated in their efforts. Municipalities need to take a number of different measures to ensure that people with severe mental health disorders are provided with accommodation. Conversion in specialist health services is not independent of the housing situation in municipalities. The government budget for 2004 and 2005 briefed that the decline of psychiatric hospitals had gone much faster than expected when the Roadmap for mental health was adopted in 1998. This means that more aspects need to be considered now. Organized dwellings with associated services and with the possibility of professional follow-up are absolutely fundamental to the achievement of the objectives of the escalation plan. Based on the extent of the reduction in the number of daily places in psychiatric hospitals, I have taken the initiative to review housing and facilitate the housing situation. I will come back to Stortinget with this matter when the review has been carried out. I have notified regional health establishments that there will be no further reduction in the number of hospital and daily places until an overall review of the housing situation has been carried out. Regional health enterprises face a number of migration requirements in the field of mental health protection, and the Ministry is aware that there is a clear need for migration from today’s daily places to outpatient forms of work. I consider these matters against whether these are conversions that have consequences for the housing needs in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e487	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have previously asked a written question to the Council of State about the closure of nine out of 18 24 - hour seats at Jonathan in Health Fonna. The Minister's answer was that this was not closures, but the transfer of places to Valen Hospital. Now, however, it turns out that in the Valen Hospital they have to reduce the number of places, from 104 to 75 beds. The first descent, to 90, is already in progress. Does the Minister of Health agree that it may be difficult to see whether the signals he has sent about stopping daily stops before a similar offer is built up locally are followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e496	What was my clear signal, and not just a signal, but my written message to the five regional health care companies, was that one had to slow down in relation to the reduction of psychiatric health care homes, a decline that had gone too fast in relation to the construction that had taken place in the municipalities. In part of the conversions, it's both positive and negative. I know that also applies in the area the representative named, which has to do with Jonathan, and to which this has been transferred. What I have been informed by Health Fonna is that the cooperation with the rapporteur in the Jondalen is an inter-municipal cooperation that has led to a qualitative offer that is in no way behind what was previously held. On the contrary, as I have been informed, it appears to be a better offer to the patient groups to be cared for. I have some issues on my table to assess, and it's about whether you should have built something up before you put something down. There may be different assessments of it. These matters end at the seventh and last time on my table for decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e505	At the end of September 2004, 1,640 patients were awaiting psychiatric treatment in the West of Health. Of these, 580 were in Health Bergen and 148 were in Health Fonna. At the same time, we know that people who have been resettled and received an offer in municipalities will also need daily treatment at psychiatric treatment institutions for periods of time. That's what happens. Does the Minister of Health, when there are so long waiting lists - in Health West 1,640 patients - mean that it is at all right to shut down daily treatment facilities now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e512	As far as my knowledge is concerned, it can be argued quite strongly that the two things are not comparable sizes. Having 1600 on a waiting list doesn't mean there's 1600 on the waiting list to be admitted to psychiatric institutions. Part of the picture about the entire psychiatry was when we established the escalation plan, the fact that we were spending huge resources in lucky days' places, while we had long waiting lists for people with minor disorders who needed an outpatient offer. What we have done, the whole action plan, is to allocate resources to those on this waiting list, who often need outpatient services. As far as I know, we are, in addition to Italy, the country in Europe that uses the largest share of resources in lucky times. But what is absolutely definite is: I have, in addition to what the Great Government decided when it came to the budget for the next year in relation to the plan of escalation, instructed five regional health companies - everyone - that the growth in psychiatry this year should be greater than the growth in the somatic environment. It's the first time it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e525	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘The planned relief department of the Sørlande Hospital, which was to open on 4 January 2005 and financed by the funds collected, is suspended indefinitely, despite the fact that the Stortinge in its cancer plan has prioritised relieving treatment for cancer patients. Will the Council of State personally intervene against Health South so that the department is opened as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e534	Relieving treatment and care at the end of life mean that unwholesome sick and dying patients receive optimal relief for their physical pangs and plagues of a psychological, social and existential nature. The objective of relieving treatment is to help patients and their dependants in such a situation get the best possible quality of life. The cooperation government stated in the Sem Declaration that we would strengthen the offer of relief and care at the end of life for everyone, regardless of diagnosis. Relieving treatment for cancer patients is given special priority through the cancer plan and national cancer strategy. Therefore, both in 2003 and 2004, the Minister of Health gave regional health companies clear guidance signals and demanded that they continue to give priority to the provision of services to patients with cancer and provide a good supply of relief and care for patients in the final phase of life. Southern Hospital HF, Kristiansand, completed a building to accommodate a soothing department during the fall. The building was cost-based at 28.5 million. kr. The radiation reaction and the Kristiansand Sanitation Association have contributed 20 million. NOK, while the remaining amount is covered by Sørlande Hospital. The relief department was scheduled to open from January 2005. Unfortunately, the special economic situation in which Health Sør is located and with which the representative Alvheim and the Stortinget are well aware also implies that a restrictive approach must be taken to start new activities which increase costs and, in the next round, lead to further demands for savings. The deferred opening of this elucidating compartment must be considered in the light of this. It is equally unfortunate to the Radiation Action and Kristiansand Sanity Association, but especially to patients and relatives, that the opening is postponed. However, Health South has assured me that when the economic situation improves, the hospital will give priority to the opening of the new services department. Sørlanden Hospital is otherwise in good dialogue with the donors, i.e. the Radiation Action and Kristiansand Sanitation Association, about alternative, temporary solutions. One option is to establish beds for relieving treatment and care at the hospital's surgical department. This will strengthen the provision of patients, and the basic manning will be in place in view of the start-up of the mitigating department of improved economy. I understand that it is also assessed to use the building as a patient’s hotel, in combination with a day’s offer for relieving treatment. Patients in need of hospitalisation should be guaranteed good offers. This will include, inter alia: be carried out by the medical and surgical departments of the Southern Hospital. I am therefore confident that patients and relatives with the need for relief treatment in the final phase of life, despite the exposed opening of the relieving department, are today also guaranteed good and soothing treatment in the South, although this can be even better through a self-absorbing department. To conclude, no one would have wanted to have opened this section in full by now in January, more than me, who has been involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e551	I thank you for the answer, which is in no way satisfactory for me. I am very surprised that the new Minister of Health is unable to intervene in relation to Health South in this particular situation. To have this in mind sometime in the future means that some patients do not get the relief pain treatment that the Storting has actually decided to have. It is not useful to blame for the lack of economic resources. It is clear that Health South has a problem, but there are other health companies that also have. That's the priority. At best, patients’ treatment needs to be prioritised instead of high wages and high pensions in the health business. Health South should have thought through at a long earlier time. I simply cannot accept a postponement of this department, as the Minister of Health now seems to have approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e560	To take the last one first, it is not that the Ministry of Health approves the priorities of each regional health enterprise. The size has been decided by the Health Companies Act on how to do this. It has been decided that it is not the Minister of Health who is to make these priorities but the individual health business. That in Health Sør's history there have been issues related to high wages and pensions, I don't think in this case we should use as a justification for what is happening. What is done in Health South is a health policy priority. It is not as it may appear that those in need of relieving treatment today do not receive it. I'm standing here with a newspaper clipping from responsible doctor Eva Albert, who runs a soothing team. Today, of course, this is also handled in the South, as elsewhere in the country, and having its own soothing departments is definitely desirable. It comes eventually, and it will also do on the South. For the time being, these patients will be handled in other departments, but the departments will also benefit from outpatient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e565	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm just as dissatisfied with this answer as with the first. It is obvious that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Health to ensure that the decisions and intentions of Storting are followed up in health businesses. It may not be entrusted to the individual health business. There the Minister of Health has a control authority – and not only control authority, he also has an implementing authority. I had actually expected in such a serious matter as this that the Minister of Health had intervened and ordered that this department be put into operation. It will also be reasonably operational. It will not cost Sørlanden hospital more than approx. 5-6 million. kr in operating costs per year, and the investment funds have largely been received from private donors. The consequence of this is also to be expected to weaken the confidence of health businesses in the population, and in particular the confidence in Health South, which has been under a very strong pressure in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e570	I hear what the representative Alvheim says. I do not see that there are any decisions in the Stortinget that have not been implemented for 2005 in relation to that department. I cannot see that there is a decision on this. I still want to remind you that even if it was about 6 million. So, kr, is the situation for Health South, which the representative of Alvheim is very well aware of, that they have a deficit of up to NOK 1 billion, and the Storting has said that the company should be in balance over two years. Accumulating new operating costs then means that the conversion requirement increases further elsewhere. The Board of Health South has therefore not found the possibility to initiate new measures right in the current period. As far as I've understood some of these environments in the South, there's a certain understanding that it's not as simple as the representative Alvheim makes it, so the world doesn't show up. The most important thing is patients. They are treated professionally as they are today, but everything can definitely be better. This department is strongly wanted, and no one should wish it more welcome than me when one day it must come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e579	I have the following questions for our Minister of Health: ‘The Eastfold Hospital has long had a high and increasing number of Corridor Asians. In the first ten months of last year, almost 5,000 patients ended up in the process. The statistics for November show that 712 sick people, 513 of whom at the hospital in Fredrikstad, had to live in the hall. It violates the hospital's strategy of not having Corridor Asians. What will the Council of State do to reduce the number of Corridor Asians?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e588	Let me first make it clear: it's not a worthy way to meet patients when they're referred to a bed room in a hospital corridor and not to a patient room. Nevertheless, we know that it happens, and unfortunately it happens too often. This is unfortunate, especially because it is a burden on the individual patient who is affected, but also because the placement of patients in corridors, among others. represents an increased risk of spread of infection. The control signals to avoid this are clear and unambiguous. The regional health establishments have been clearly informed by their owner, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, that they are generally not to have Corridor Asiates. We've said this as a general rule, because there could be situations with large patient inflows, where it won't be possible to avoid doing this. We know that will happen, unfortunately, also in the near future. Therefore, we also closely monitor developments in the frequency of so-called corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals. It is one of the quality indicators on which we receive reports, and the results are presented here on the Free Hospital Choice website. Corridor Asians are, in particular, a problem and a challenge for the IECs. They have a high frequency of hospitalisations, and they treat many elderly people with complex disorders and with a need for long-term care. Conversion of hospital operations, from traditional long stays to shorter stays and day care, also called from bed to chair, is important. I am aware that such conversions are not as suitable for all patients. They are equally necessary, also because they release capacity so that we can provide a good treatment offer to those who need to have a bed. In the strategy for the further development of local hospitals that we presented in proposals for the state budget for the current year, to which the Stortinget joined, the government has highlighted in particular the responsibility of hospitals to support primary health services, including in urban areas. My signals to the hospitals are clear: Corridor Asians should not, as a general rule, occur. That's why my hospital management fully supports implementing the changes required to redispatch resources, so that they treat patients in a dignified way. There are many paradoxes here. It is also in Eastfold, because while there are on average ten patients in the hall, there are also ten empty beds in the same hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e605	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also want to say something positive. A lot of positive happens in the health business. The queues will be reduced and the waiting time will be reduced. But as the Council of State was in it, we have about as many people in the corridors as there are free beds. I have addressed this to the responsible authority, but they say that there is a little flexible building mass, and that there is a great deal of specialisation that makes this problematic. The councils described the situation, but we have to be solution-oriented here. The Ministry has overall responsibility for trying to push solutions forward so that they do not continue in the worst possible way, and in Eastfold we have a growing trend in corridor Asians. What does the Council of State think you can do concretely? How do you deal with the situation in order at least to get into a positive trend here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e612	It's true, as the representative says, that there have also been references to building conditions that make it less flexible. I've been looking at the newly designed hospitals, and I've been looking at the new ones being built, for example St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim. There is a completely different concept, so that you can take in the necessary flexibility. In some of the old hospitals, bed beds are not related to what is needed today. Some people have overcapacity of beds in some types of departments -- because in some departments it gets much shorter lay time -- while other departments, which are more intense, and which have more emergency functions, suddenly get needed for many beds. There may be four floors between the departments, and it is impossible to have these patients lying like this. In the short term, you have to try to adjust this locally to the building body you have, but in the future, there is a completely different degree of flexibility. This needs to be handled locally, but of course it is an overall objective, both for patients, for medical reasons and not least for the sake of infection, to minimise the number of people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e621	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. It seems to me that the management of the Hospital Østfold is totally or partially debilitated. An intermediate post is being discussed, and a post has been opened for patients who are ready to print, but the effects are absent. And there is also this debate that the Council of State mentions about new projects. We're going to have a new major hospital at Kallenes, but it could be ten years ahead. Doesn't the Council of State mean you have to go a little tougher and more efficient to work here? We cannot have these problems for ten years to come. Neither the population nor the corridor patients have benefited, especially the corridor patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e626	I'm never in doubt that new hospitals that are being built will have a completely different flexibility, so that this problem will be almost non-existent in such a situation. But as the grass grows, it is important that patients do not die in the corridors. What I'm going to do, in view of this issue, in relation to Eastfold, is, of course, to address this concretely and look at what immediate measures are possible both in terms of personnel and building in order to achieve a greater degree of flexibility. It seems a little special that there are ten patients at a time, while you have ten beds standing up in another part of the building, perhaps also on the same floor. Then there should be a basis for using a little healthy farmland to get this done, and they have, as far as I know, considerably in Eastfold as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e635	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The increase in government charges has become an increasing source of income for the country, contrary to what was originally intended. Today, the fee for theoretical driving tests and the issue of driving licences is higher than self-cost. The size of traffic stations recently increased the efficiency of traffic stations, which was intended to reduce the cost of self-sufficiency for services at traffic stations. Will the Council review transport charges and contribute to the follow-up of the principle of self-sufficiency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e644	The fees charged by the representative Nistad in his question are entered in the revenue chapter of the State Road Administration in the State Budget, Chapter 4320 The Road Administration, item 02 Miscellaneous fees. This item mainly includes fees relating to the issue of driving licences, driving tests, plates, authority checks and vehicle checks, and the amount of the fee is initially determined on the basis of the principle of self-sufficiency. In the context of the review of the revised national budget 2004, the revenue requirement for item 02 Miscellaneous fees was increased by 47,7 million. NOK - from SEK 294.3 million. NOK 342 million. kr. In order to find cover for an increase of this amount, it was necessary to significantly increase the fees. As can also be seen from the answer to question No. 9 from the Group of the Progressive Party in the context of the revised national budget, the price of theoretical driving tests and the issue of driving licences is above cost, while for the other services budgeted for above, it is assumed that the fees are either lower or at the level of costs. As the representative Nistad points out, the State Road Service is in a process of conversion and efficiency. This includes the conversion of the traffic station structure, which may lead to a change in the costs of producing the services subject to a charge. The appropriate level of costs could only be assessed once the outcome of this ongoing process has been further clarified. In this connection, I have asked the Directorate of Road to review the applicable fees on the basis of the principle of self-sufficiency. In line with the 2005 budget proposal of the Ministry of Transport, I will come back with a more thorough review of the level of fees associated with the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e655	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased with it. It is a pleasure that the Council of State has asked the Directorate of Roads to go through this, and that it is the principle of self-sufficiency to be used. I'm very pleased with that. But was it necessary to increase some of these fees in 2004? Why were some of these fees increased, when it was already foreseen that there would be an improvement in efficiency, and there has been an improvement in efficiency? Was it necessary to take this adjustment up when it is later possible to adjust down again?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e662	Yes, we found it necessary to do this, and it was made known to the Storting in the context of the budgetary process. I expect that the Progress Party was also made familiar with this. We want to review the type of fee that should be cost-oriented. It's obviously a point when the principle lies there, that we follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e667	I'm very pleased. I just have a little bit of precision. You have said that you want to go into the principle of self-sufficiency. Is it then that you want to do so with regard to all the fees in the area of transportation, or is it just those that I have asked about now? Do you want to go on so that you can look at everything in the area of transportation with regard to fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e674	The President must be allowed to remind us that speech is to go through the President and not as a direct appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e677	Now I know that there is a question here about absolutely all of the fees and charges, and it is a very complex question. Not all charges are intended to be cost-oriented. Therefore, they will be treated in the same way as today. But the fees that are supposed to be cost-oriented, we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e685	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘It is from individual firing teams etc. expressed the wish to take over more of the ammunition for which the defence is no longer needed for several reasons. This may be ammunition ‘due to date’ or which is no longer needed. How is this practice going on today, and is it possible for shooter teams or others to take over more of this ammunition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e694	The defence acquires handgun ammunition for the purpose of the possession of the defence at all times shall be consumed within the defined lifetime. Hand-held ammunition ‘expires to date’ according to the manufacturer’s marking is ammunition which is not to be used for technical reasons. Therefore, in the light of safety considerations, it is neither desirable nor possible for shooting teams or others to acquire or dispose of any of these ammunition. Ammunition ‘out of date’ is disposed of and properly destroyed in accordance with the provisions of the Defence. The question has been submitted to the FLO, the FLO, which, in a letter dated 7 January 2005, states that the defence does not currently have a surplus of small arms ammunition. On this basis, there is therefore no handgun ammunition that the gunners could have taken over. However, I would like to point out that there are arrangements for the allocation and sale of small arms ammunition to defence personnel. This is regulated annually in the Defence Ammunition Plan Part 02 - Special provisions concerning all disposals of ammunition in the Defence. It is clear from this that up to 500 shots may be awarded to professional, contract, duty-command, traineeships, cadets, command school students and permanent attached personnel of the Defence Officers who have participated in a minimum of five military/sivile appeals or competitions per year. years. Furthermore, permanent staff in the Defence Agency may purchase up to 1000 shots per application. years. For both of these schemes, applications from the individual and the necessary attestation from the staff member’s department have been made subject to very strict requirements. The resale or transfer of assigned handgun ammunition is strictly prohibited and may result in the loss of the right to take-out and/or disciplinary incisions. The main answer is that it is not considered that the defence has profit communication for resale. And even more important: Ammunition marked by the supplier as ‘advanced by date’, we believe that there would be a very clear security issue related to its use. The defence may not assume responsibility for such use. That ammunition is therefore destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e711	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and clarifying briefing, which answers the questions asked me by individual teams of shooters, some members and others. I think, of course, it is good that it is not given away/sold ammunition that has ‘ended’ and that it is disposed of and destroyed in a proper manner in accordance with the defence regulations. That's, like I said, good. My question then goes on to another ammunition that the defence for some reason does not need. Here the Council of State answers that this type of ammunition does not exist per year. date. I'll take that for information. This is also okay. But the question remains: if it is for some reason in the future, for example. in the context of reorganisation in the Defence, ammunition which has not ‘end-of-date’, which is fully usable and which is not dangerous or scary, is then possible for the Council of State to assess whether this type of ammunition can be assigned or sold to shooting teams, members or those on the list of those given ammunition today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e720	Of course, it's hard to answer a hypothetical question. The most important thing for the defense is not to try to buy more ammunition than what you need yourself, just to avoid unnecessarily binding capital. But we all know that in an organization with reorganization it may be that because of changing types of weapons or for other reasons you get superfluous material. What will then have to be determined by the Defence itself through its rules for the allocation of unnecessary ammunition. Today, practice is such that, in this case, priority is given to the award of shots to active shooters according to very strict criteria, the award of orders and the commissions of organised shooting, and the sale of other personnel to permanent staff. I assume that it would be the same priority if you were to come up with the situation that the questioner described in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e727	I believe the Council of State and I agree on how this should be handled in the future as well. We also certainly agree that training in shooting is important in order to maintain the shooting skills of the commanding officers and soldiers, and I am thinking in particular of the Home Guards and Commandants. I think that this is working satisfactorily with the rules and practices that are in place today, but there have been some questions about ammunition that the defence for some reason does not need, or that are “advanced”. That's why I asked the question, so that we can make the best use of the resources that the Defense has for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e732	Here it sounds like there is a broad consensus, and I therefore see no need to give a more complementary answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e737	We're now going back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e744	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e747	I have a question for the Prime Minister who will be answered by the Minister for the Environment. I have to confess that in the first parentheses I've messed up a little bit with the names. It says ProMare. It should have been MAREANO. But based on the question, it's probably what it's all about. So I don't think it's created so much confusion at the Council of State: ‘The Member State’s charting works have developed a project for the mapping of the seabed [[ProMare]] Will the Prime Minister, responsible for coordination between departments, take the initiative to clarify the financing and implementation of this important monitoring project so that this can be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e756	The degree of confusion present in the Council of State is likely to be resolved by the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e759	As the representative Steinar Bastesen says, the MAREANO monitoring and research programme is intended for this purpose. This is a proposal for a joint effort by the Marine Research Institute, Norway's geological survey and the Staten Kartverk Sea. The programme proposal is composed of three parts: monitoring the bottom of the sea, marine ecosystem law research and the Internet presentation of available information. The government is well aware of the MAREANO programme, and it has been thoroughly evaluated by the relevant departments. We have too poor knowledge of the seabed in our oceans, and the implementation of MAREANO will be a very important contribution to strengthening this knowledge. MARANO will also strengthen knowledge of our marine ecosystems and resources related to the seabed and the better basis for both conservation and sustainable use of the land and resources in Norway's marine area. MAREANO is thus relevant to several departments, including: The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, as well as the Ministry of Environment. The monitoring and research part of MAREANO, on which the representative is involved, depends on a wide range of departments and I can assure Mr Bastesen that MAREANO will be evaluated in conjunction with the Government's budgetary processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e768	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that this will be assessed in future budgetary processes. But I'm asking for the implementation. It should have been implemented already. When other nations are monitoring the Norwegian seabed, it is so serious that we ourselves should have started doing that work. The question is then again: When can we expect such a project to be launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e777	I agree with the representative Bastesen that today we have too poor knowledge of the seabed in our sea area, and that the implementation of MAREANO would be a very important contribution to getting further in the information we need. I would also like to say that there is no internal disagreement about the professional part, but that it has been a matter of priority so far. It is thus the financial problem that has our Government's challenge in this matter. I can't say more than that this is an area that we think is important, and of course we're forced to evaluate in the budgetary process. It will already be assessed in the 2006 budget, but I can give no promise when that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e786	I thank you for the answer, and I ask the Council of State to include it in the budget for next year. That's 200-300 million. kr. I know the number pretty sure. It won't be over 300 million. kr, and it should be possible for the Government to make room for the next year's budget. Can the Council of State assure that it will also be evaluated next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e793	Yes, I can assure the representative of Bastesen that it will be evaluated. I can also confirm the size of the representative Mr Bastesen. It's a significant amount when you have a sum up to 200-300 million. kr within this area. But the government thinks the matter is important, and we'll evaluate it already in the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e802	My question to the Minister for the Environment is as follows: ‘There are still reports from people living in areas with large predators that they feel unsafe. Adults stop walking in the woods, the kids have to get shot at the school, and no kids are allowed to play out alone. One of the last frightening episodes occurred in Aurskog-Høland in December, when a dog standing in a band just next to a house and a playground was killed by a wolf in the middle of the day. Does the Council believe that it is acceptable for residents living in predatory areas to be damaged in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e811	I have a lot of understanding for those who know fear and fear of large predators like wolf and bear. It's easy to imagine that these species are frightening. These are species that belong to a natural home in Norwegian nature, but that have for a long time exterminated our neighbor. These species are now once again established in Norway, in line with Stortinget's collective objectives since the peace in the early 1970s. While the wolf can go to the slaughter of dogs within its territory, man is not a natural prey for the wolf. Although not underestimating the fear of wolves, the large image is such that other species in Norwegian nature, such as elk, hoggorm and weps, represent a greater danger to human beings in certain situations than the existence of wolves. Nevertheless, we must take seriously the fact that the fear of wolves is great in the population. For the sake of the conflict these species may create, a limited number of annual juveniles has been created in the Size Community. For wolves, three year-olds are added to Norway. Furthermore, provision has been made for local authorities and communities to have their own means of implementing anti-conflict mitigation measures to mitigate fear and insecurity. Where these measures would prove to be inadequate, killing may also be considered. A broad majority in Stortinget have gathered on a new and good predatory policy. I am very confident that through the measures we are now going to take, we will meet the local population, so that the quality of life over time will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e824	Here, there was not much sympathy with all those who experience that they get the quality of life in everyday life reduced because the wolf walks and sneaks around the walls. The County of Oslo and Akershus, three affected municipalities and the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, have all arranged that this wolf, who has specialized in gliding around the population and taking dogs, as I mentioned in my question, should share. The Directorate of Nature Management, on its side, states that this is not a matter of priority, since they believe that there is no great danger of any further attacks. My first follow-up question is whether the Minister for the Environment actually looks at this matter, which has been committed significantly in the local area. The second question relates to the fact that the bulk of the population asked that it be assessed whether the emergency protection should be extended to dogs that are attacked by predators. The question is: how far has the Ministry come in that assessment related to the emergency court?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e835	As far as I am aware, the Directorate for Nature Management has received an application for precipitation on a wolf that has taken several dogs in Aurskog-Høland. I would therefore not like to comment on this matter more closely now, until it has been completed in the Directorate for Nature Management. When it comes to the second question from the representative, Haga, the Ministry of the Environment, in line with the guidance given by the Stortinget, is working with an explanation of the consequences of the introduction of coercion law, including where dogs are attacked by predatory game. So it's a work that the department is doing, and that we'll obviously come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e842	There were many weaknesses in the predatory message when it was presented, but the really great weakness of the message was that it hardly took in the feelings and experiences that people have, linked to having wolves or large predators around it in their everyday lives. It was not taken up the fact that very many people actually feel that the quality of life is being reduced. When examining the notification of predators, an overall committee stated: ‘The human side of predator loads should be given greater attention.’ The Committee therefore wanted it to: ‘start studies that provide knowledge of how predators affect people’s everyday lives and quality of life’. My question is, what has the ministry done so far to look at the human influences by having large predators around them in their everyday lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e859	I think that the predatory game policy that a broad majority in the Stortinget has taken its toll, just to ensure that we have wolves in this country, and I am pleased about that. That plural was not the center party. I also mean that the plural set up a sensible administration that takes care of human care. The center party was in a large minority in this case, and I'm not sure that one of these people is trying to rematch, but that one of them is putting in the leads that one of them came into a large minority when the things were up in ours. I am pleased with the broad plurality that both secures the wolf and secures the security of local communities. I think that with the policies that are now in place, there will be less need for action, because there will be more prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e868	The President will assume that the expression "great minority" is misunderstanding, and that the meaning was a small minority. But it's not always that language is easy to construct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e875	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and says as follows: ‘The size has stressed that predatory game management should be given stronger local anchoring and that a better relationship of trust between community and administrative authorities should be established. It has been intended that regional predators should play an important role in achieving this. Many now fear that the regional authorities will have too little authority and that the Directorate for Nature Management will continue to be the dominant player. How does the Council of State assess the future role and authority of predators?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e884	The size of the game last year was the main lead for a new predatory game management. When designing the regulation that has now been consulted, the Ministry has tried to reflect the collection of information provided by the Stortinget. The primary responsibility for determining quotas for damage to conditionality, allowances for licence hunts and quotas for globular hunting within the limits of national stock targets and applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions shall be assumed by the detonators. These stock targets, set by the Stortinget, shall ensure that Norway gathers its national and international responsibility for not eradicating the predatory game. Roofers are also responsible for drawing up a regional management plan for predatory game and for prioritising prevention and conflict mitigation measures in the region. It is also underlined that predators will cooperate closely with municipalities, organisations, communities and other parties in their region. The main approach to regions and predatory wildlife subjects has widely supported policy and all the stakeholder organisations involved in providing advice on the design of the predatory message. I have great expectations that the Stortinget's leadership in creating regions and predatory wildlife over time will bring lower levels of conflict and fewer losses. Finally, I think there is reason to remind you that the Stortinge's predatory game policy means that we should ensure that gloat, yew, bear, wolf and king eagle are not eradicated from Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e899	It is correct, as the Minister for the Environment says, that Stortinget gave clear leadership. But when it comes to regulations, it may look like the Directorate for Nature Management is going to have a great deal of authority with regard to the management of wild game. Among other things, they are mentioned to have the control until the stock targets for the different species have been reached. If I can take an example there, it's probably going to be 10-15 years in the bear's case, because that's how the bear gets kids every two years, and then it's going to take about. 15 years before the stock target is reached. Then it can't be right that it's the Directorate of Natural Management that's in charge of that administration in these years, and that's why they're out of control. My question will then be: How does the Council of State view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e908	When we create the regional names on 1 April, they will of course come into force and have a very important function. I am pleased with the broad connection it has become to the regional level within this policy area. I think it'll be important, and I think it'll have a very good effect. At the same time, of course, the Directorate for Nature Management will play an important role. It is our leading professional body today and will have a significant consultative role within these questions. They are with the foremost expertise, so that the advisory role that the Directorate for Nature Management will have in the future will be important. The Directorate will also be involved in and advise on complaints in connection with the decisions of the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e915	It is true that the Directorate for Nature Management can have an advisory role. But I think that the Council of State here underestimates the important task area and the power that the Stortinget wanted to give to the robbers, because the proposals for regulations now state that population numbers - and that is basically those of which there is a great deal of disagreement - should only be population numbers that NINA and the Directorate of Nature Management have approved. Then you get away from what the Stortinge thought, that in order to get good quality monitoring, it was very important to increase local involvement, because that was the best way to reduce the level of conflict. We also know that cracks in terms of numbers are what's at stake. I have here a headline I can mention: 13 wolves in Norway, of which 19 in Eastfold. Then we hear that there's a crack in these numbers. This isn't mollusks -- it's not easy to count them. We don't have time to wait for authorized numbers, so I'll finally ask the Council of State: how can a better cooperation in predator management be created? That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e922	I think that precisely the designation of the regional denominators is an important step towards better management of predators. At the same time, I must be allowed to say that the Storting never expects the denominators to manage our predatory populations down to a lower level than the metrics that have been set. It is now important that the regional denominators manage a national policy, and as we were dealing with the previous question, the Central Party did not end up in the broad plurality. I'm glad that there was a wide variety of people who secured a holistic administration. I think that with the holistic policies that have been put in place in this area, and the regional administration, we have come to a holistic approach to this issue that will make the level of conflict go down, and we will also have better management overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e933	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘There are constantly new notifications from livestock users in areas with a lot of predators that they are about to give up their nutrition. Lost income, severe suffering for the animals and mental stress for the animal owners mean that many people are no longer able to do so. This happens despite the fact that the Storting has said that it should still be possible to operate grazing animals in areas with predatory game. How does the Council of State feel that the conflict between predators and grazing is to be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e942	The relationship between grazing and the large wild game species has been thoroughly discussed by Stortinget, the last in the Norwegian nature Stortinget’s Storing Message, which was handled by Stortinget in the spring of 2004. Both in the message and in the settings of the Energy and Environment Committee, attention was paid to measures to reduce conflicts. The development of sheep keeping and reindeer operations in predatory game areas was examined in connection with the work of a new staging message and discussed in the message. In the message, the development of sheep and the number of sheep operating units is considered to be continuously stable, whether or not a municipality has large predatory occurrences. I am not aware that there is some data to document a new situation in this area. I would also like to mention that there does not seem to be any more sheep taken by wild game during the 2004 grazing season than the previous year. Thus, the Storting has recently discussed the different elements of the predatory game management, and a large number are some of the policies in this field. I am now following up through the tool I have available. Once the new policy has been implemented, much will be done by the government to reduce the conflict between grazing and predatory game.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e953	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the Council of State is familiar with e.g. the situation in Søndre Salten - among others from a written question from me last autumn - where 65 crews are in danger due to problems with you, which is the biggest problem in relation to domestic animals. The stock of minerals is on the increase. In this area, for example: a number of farmers affected. In answer to this written question, the Minister for the Environment promised to strengthen the efforts to reduce the problems of the region. This means, however, that the Council of State is precisely aware that in some areas this poses a major problem for industry. What happened in the period after this? And how far have the authorities come from limiting your problems in e.g. Sdr Salten?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e964	There is no doubt that the representative here, Mr Enoxsen, is a challenge. We know that it's natural that we have losses, but we want to limit them strongly. We would therefore like to facilitate actions that can contribute to this. We have provided it financially through our 2005 budget, and we are forced to focus on how we can help mitigate the conflicts and the damage associated with the predatory game problem. I think that the policy we are now putting forward, and there are several questions about today, will facilitate it through the whole-hearted policy and through the regional denominators that are now responsible for entering and assessing each one's desire to deploy the economic resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e971	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Just this example shows that, although macro-figures may look satisfactory in relation to the predatory problem, the industry in local or regional areas may face major problems which may cause it to be completely eradicated in some areas. This could hardly have been the intention, even by the majority, when the report was dealt with last autumn and it was said that livestock should still be kept in predatory areas. This is exactly the background to my question. I assume that the Council of State intends to follow up in several of these areas, which have had major predatory problems, especially where you are the biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e978	Yes, we will follow closely up. From today we started working out from the majority that was finished after the robbery message was handled in Stortinget. It's our desire to follow up that broad plural in the best possible way. When the representative of Enoxsen takes up yours, it is clear that there is a regional difference. We see that the total number of your injuries to sheep has fallen from 2003 to 2004, while for wolves there has been a contradiction. Besides the macro-number, there will also be regional and local differences. That is what we want to follow up on. through the regional names that will be created on 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e985	Then we came up with the last question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e992	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following question: ‘The number of sheep killed by wolves has never been greater than in 2004. Nearly half of these killings have occurred outside the wolf's son, which has been adopted by the majority of the population. 12 countries have reserved for total wolf welfare even if they have ratified the Berne Convention. Will the Council of State take such an initiative also on behalf of Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1001	Norwegian accession to the Berne Convention is handled by the Stortinget, and the Convention was ratified by Norway in 1986. Norway did not reserve itself against the wolf, and the Convention opens for damageful killing. During the handling of the Rovvilt Storting Message in Norwegian nature, the majority of Stortinget’s Energy and Environment Committee indicated that Norway has an obligation under the Berne Convention to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature. The majority of the committee said that the question is not about mescals in Norwegian nature, but where we're going to manage it, and how. I therefore see no reason to take any initiative to have Norway reserve itself in relation to the wolf. In the current predatory game policy, Norwegian governmen add to a differentiated management of the wolf of the care of the sheep and the reindeer. This management includes, inter alia: that there is a dedicated management area for the young wolf. Regulation on the hunting of wolves, which was adopted in December 2004, and a new regulation on the management of wild game, which has recently been consulted, are also important elements of this management. To the 2004 Berne Convention Meeting, Switzerland proposed to list wolves from Annex 2 to Annex 3 to the Convention. The proposal involves moving the species from the list of species of animals that are totally satisfied to the list of species that are not completely satisfied. After suggestions from other sources The EU and Norway agreed to conduct a scientific study on wolf stock status in Europe before the meeting of the Parties deals with the Swiss submitted. I would like to await the work that will be done now, before I take a final position on the submitted from Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1019	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was something passive and also elusive. We know that the interpretation of the Berne Convention is different in this room and also among those who are discussing the issue of predators in Norway. It is clear that 12 countries have reserved for total wolf welfare, and they believe that this is huntable game. The proposal from Switzerland now to move the wolf from attachment list 2 to attachment list 3 would result in a more flexible management of the wolf. When the Minister for the Environment says that one should assess where and how to manage predators, this must be precisely important, to obtain clarification so that the Berne Convention can be managed more equally in the signatory countries. For those of us who have major problems with scattered housing and a business structure that makes grazing very difficult in the areas where these predators occur, especially the wolf, it is important to put this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1026	I understand that the representative, Glötvold, said that I had an elusive answer. I can't agree on that. He asks me if I want to take such an initiative, and I say no to that -- I won't do that. Then we might disagree, and that's us in this case, but I don't want to say it's an elusive answer when I say I don't want to take such an initiative. I think it's important to take care of the wolf. That's what we've got in Stortinget. I'm glad, and I'll follow up on that. I know that the Center Party was not part of that plural, nor is it part of the policy that I am now putting up with. We have to accept that. But I'm glad that a mass accumulation took responsibility for our predatory game, and at the same time will show that we can have a policy that leads to less conflict and less loss, and that can give security to people in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1033	I think that the Minister for the Environment was elusive in relation to the main problem here, namely a clearer administrative practice in relation to the extraction of pests and animals that appear to be at risk. There I think the Minister for the Environment was elusive in his reply. So, for the license hunt. There is a strongly negative attitude towards licensing in large parts of the area where it is now underway. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it such that it is the responsibility of the State to take out pests and predators that are not where they should be, or is it such that with this license hunt this is now left to local hunters? And if you fail in this license hunt, won't the Minister for the Environment do anything more to take out the animals that aren't supposed to be there? Following the decision of the Storting, the wolf shall be primarily in the wolf zone and not in the areas where they have done major damage this last year. Licensing is not the case if an animal is to be taken out at the right time and in a humane and efficient manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1040	I do not want to comment on any of the specific issues in relation to the license search now. There's the Directorate of Natural Management taking a decision. The decisions have a complaint over, and they will end up on my table. Therefore, I only express myself on a general basis when it relates to licence hunting. What I want to say about licensing is that I think it's a good way both to make hunting commonplace and for when to take out animals. I also believe that a combination of licence hunting and a decision on the hunting of regional names helps to create a relationship with predators. It helps to create trust both locally and regionally. I think it's a good way to follow up the broad agreement in the Storting on when it's about the predatory game policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1047	Thus, all questions in today's Question Time have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-12.ana.ud484e1058	There is no record.
