ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e164	Representatives André Kukkestad and Åge Konradsen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The requested alternate of Oslo, Brit I. H. Andreassen, has taken a seat. The representatives Finn Kristian Marthinsen and Rolf Rekovam have received applications for leave from 13 June to 15 June, both for participation in the 51st session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, first part, in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave:For Akershus County: Christian HolmFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum Lie
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e203	Christian Holm and Unni Hennum Lie are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e209	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engretsen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e230	At the request of the special committee, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e239	The study of power and democracy is an important contribution to us as politicians – and in and of society as such – to understanding the development of the society in which we live. The study concludes in many ways that social development is not a result of randomness, nor of what has been created as a historical necessity – it is almost always a result of political decisions. It should be a challenge for the political, elected and representative system that we have in this country, because that means that we have alternatives. This means that each decision taken by the Stortinget could have a decisive impact on the development of this country. We have the ability to control development, and we also have the opportunity to correct the course, if we want to. However, what has become quite clear in the course of this power and democracy investigation – and I speak from my own experience – is that the political parties tend to address the issues raised by the Power and Democracy investigation, based on their political positions at all times. Few – or none – have in any way been willing to take on the results of the research that have come, and with this investigation tried to point out the path we are going to take in the future if we still want a representative democratic democracy. In the main conclusions of the investigation, a rather gloomy picture is drawn of the development of the Norwegian People's Republic. There is strong evidence that the regime is weakened at the expense of increased judicial power. Important tasks have been transferred to market actors. Local politicians are guided in detail by central governance signals and earmarked grants — and allocated for small resources in relation to the tasks they will perform. Local policy space has been reduced. The turnout and the number of members of the political parties are falling. Fewer are willing to stand on lists and take on political positions. This presents both society and the political parties with major challenges in relation to the demands for modernisation and participation in election premises, if one wants political parties to be at the heart of the governance of future social development by the elected bodies. If the developments we are seeing continue, we will clearly see that the political parties are weakening their ability to have both control and vision for the development of society. There will be other actors taking over. There are political directions in this country that want such a development, that want power to be shifted from the populist, so-called political, institutional, and user, to the market, and that individual citizens in that country should be given the opportunity to shop in the private market for welfare goods through different schemes. On the other hand, there are political parties who believe that almost all welfare production should be done on the basis of public opinion. For my part, it is particularly important to ensure political governance of the development of society. Our system is based on a popular democracy, where it is the same way into this hall as the people who have the power. If the elected bodies are deprived of this opportunity to control development, eventually the people's opportunities to participate in the process of society will disappear – in the broadest sense. If we go towards a society where the market is to be the governing factor in social development, the elected bodies will lose their position and power, with the consequences it will have for the future. I am convinced that if we are to ensure that we maintain a system of popular governance, both political parties, political institutions and those parts of the public that produce welfare systems must accept that we must have a future organisation, that we must have a renewal of this, and that we must have an adaptation to new social conditions. But every time we adopt changes in the system we are familiar with and accustomed to, we must also spend time discussing: how can we, through the elected political bodies, meet the needs of the people to have control and influence on social development? Exclusion, privatisation and the organisation of state-owned activities in a pattern of private business have systematically – as the Powers Survey shows – contributed to weakening the political governance of development. We need as elected representatives to look for alternative solutions if we want to control social development. Market forces are not a democratic force, and it is unlikely that it is possible, either by law or by other means, to ensure that the market becomes democratic. The market in its kind is shaped in such a way that it is impossible for it to be managed by elected bodies. Therefore, it is important that market forces are used where they have something to contribute, namely in the areas of society where the objective is profit. In terms of school, care or welfare production as a whole, there must be other basic values that count, and there must be a different solution to how to organise, renew and adapt this rather than simply leaning against market forces. Therefore, there is a need for a general discussion of the administrative reforms in relation to the People's Rule. Such an assessment should take place before new reforms are implemented. The investigation of power and democracy has shown us in a broad area how this can be done if one is willing to take seriously the findings made by the Authority's investigation. It doesn't have to be a Bible or a fascist, but it should be the basis for discussion and choice of forms, for the different directions are quite obvious of such a nature that the political system has choices if you want to. The power investigation shows that citizens have confidence in democracy in many ways. But the power investigation also shows that there is a decrease in confidence in the politicians, who constitute the democracy in which we are so happy and in which we are concerned that we should maintain. This is a challenge that political parties and individual politicians should face. The parties are in many ways the foundation of the political work to be carried out at all levels, at all levels of government, in this country. What's alarming is if the local batch layers are struggling to function. It means the end of the parties as such, because it would be quite impossible in a democracy to have parties that only work at the central level. Therefore, the political parties in Norway should take seriously what the Authority’s investigation concludes and what the Authority’s investigation shows. When, to a very large extent, the political commitment of individual cases is directed towards the matter more than how the political parties or elected bodies decide on how to resolve the matter, there is a challenge. When action democracy brings together more support than political parties do, the political parties have a challenge, because they must be responsible for maintaining the whole, while the user, the people, must have the opportunity to be able to engage in the individual issues. If future political developments in Norway are to be based only on participation through so-called action democracy, we will have major challenges, not only economically but also in relation to how this country should be governed. The power investigation clearly shows that there is a lack of coherence between election results, who forms government, and how the different government constellations arise. The power investigation has spent some time and resources assessing, investigating and researching how the political purchasing power of the ballot box is developing. What is obvious is that over the last 20 years, the political purchasing power of the ballot box has been weakened. This will lead to a significant reduction or weakening of the belief in the political parties and their representatives. In order to counteract the developments we are in, I am of the clear and convinced opinion that Norwegian political life depends on having clear alternatives in the political system, on having majority governments, and on having constellations both at the regional and local level that allow political parties, political groups, groupings to be held responsible for the processes in which they are involved. It is a weakening of the belief in the political parties that it is as much possible to shift responsibility for the decisions to others. The relationship between magnification and government is a good example of how easy it is for individual representatives or for individual parties to shift responsibility for development to others, rather than to take responsibility for themselves. In the long term, this population's belief in the political system is weakening. If the impression is created that the political bodies consist largely only of ‘root’ and ‘customs’, it will result in a weakening of the political system. We have municipalities in this country that make elections, choose rapporteur, elect Presidency, and have under 25 pst. of the population behind it. When we have municipalities that are in such a situation, it will be quite obvious that it is not at all the wishes of the majority of the population that are being implemented. It is not a representative sample of the population who make the necessary priorities for further development of well-being. The power investigation also includes a comprehensive chapter on media and media development. It is quite obvious that such developments have been in the media field, it will be quite impossible for individual men and women in this country to get an overview of what is happening in political life, just by following in the media. The reports that come are broken up. Significantly more attention is paid to conflicts than to the long-term policy objectives and discussions that are taking place. This points to the power investigation as a significant problem, because in future societal developments, the political system will not have any bodies that can properly communicate the message to the population. I don't think it's possible to change the development that we see in the media. For my part, I have concluded that the political parties, the Stortinget and the political institutions need to be better informed on their own about the actual political processes that are taking place, thus contributing to the creation of an alternative to the media development we are seeing and, as a result, perhaps to a different political process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e279	After listening to an interesting article from the rapporteur, I must immediately announce that I need to say that I do not belong to those who believe that everything was so much better before. That being said, it's a good starting point for me to take as conservative that all people are equivalent, regardless of individual characteristics, characteristics and group membership. Only a democracy that assumes that all citizens should have equal rights to participation and influence can respect this respect for the equivalency of people. For us, it is imperative to remember that democracy is something far more than mere majority rule through decision-making bodies. Individual protection of rights, guarantees of legal certainty and the safeguarding of minority rights are also fundamental elements of democracy. The investigation of power and democracy paints a very gloomy picture of the state of Norwegian democracy. The main picture of the majority is that the government of the people is perplexing. Although there is every reason to take seriously more of the developments pointed out by the Power and Democracy investigation, I think they are drawing a far too pessimistic conclusion. Quite rightly, participation in elections has shown a declining trend over many years. Especially in local elections, electoral participation has been significantly lower over the past decade. I don't think this is particularly eye-catching. Let me point to some ratio. The local policy space has become too small through various government governance measures adopted by government and increasing over the years. When the majority of population did not even have confidence that local politicians could determine the nature of the sibling-moderation scheme for child care payments, but also here had to impose state regulations on local politicians, it may not be so strange that the voters feel that decisions are taken elsewhere than in the local government. Most voters have a very widespread opinion that it is difficult to perceive clear political differences between the parties on the local level in many municipalities. If the consensus in what I would call the ‘AS Municipal Party’ becomes so large that it is not possible to identify real political differences, it is also not so strange that the voters do not care about voting. We have general voting rights in this country, but we have no voting rights. Letting not vote is also a choice. It could also be an expression that most people are quite satisfied with the state of things when it comes to the piece. However, I am not in doubt that the voters actually meet in large numbers when they perceive that their participation is important and that there are important questions to be resolved. I think we will see this in the forthcoming election, that election attendance is increasing because voters will face the choice between two clear government options which indicate two different directions for Norwegian society: a red-green socialist option, with high taxes and less freedom of choice for individuals, and a clear non-socialist option, which still provides lower taxes and more freedom of choice. The public sector is managed differently from the past, through delegation, exemption and more general governance, and the participation of people has taken other forms. This has led to less power for political bodies, and the possibilities of user choice and user influence have been strengthened. Through this, the participation of people has increased. And I can't see with my best will that there should be any problem for democracy in Norway that people get more freedom of choice, more opportunities to decide about their own lives, not just every four years, but actually every day. I can understand that political forces that profess other ideologies can perceive this as threatening and perhaps scary, that collective weakening is happening, and that the opportunities to govern society towards their model for the dream community are diminishing. For my part, I would say that this is not in any way threatening, but rather a great relief. In the debate on the previous power investigation, corporate societies and the debate on the power of organisations were central. Also at this crossroads are these key issues. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee and the Stortinget, through the committee, are expressing: ‘However, the large business and professional organisations have gradually gained disproportionate power, and many who do not participate in them have difficulty in achieving this. The organisations' spokespersons are increasingly involved as policy actors on a general basis, in addition to their role as the party’s interest should be, and without making choices.’ It is essential for a well-functioning democracy that there be no close relations and ties between parties and their representatives in elected bodies and specific interest groups. If cooperation with the social partners is to function properly, it is important that the authorities deal with the various organisations in an equivalent manner and do not give a single organisation much more transparency, power and influence than the others. Another development that gives cause for concern is the fact that, in a number of cases, the Storting as admissibility is played out above the sidebar. With regard to so-called income policy cooperation, over the years we have had several examples of measures, reforms and social arrangements negotiated in wage settlements, where adverse economic consequences have been observed in retrospect and where investigations of consequences have been absent before the adoption of decisions. Once a settlement has been negotiated between the social partners, and it is expected that afterwards, the Storting will spread the truth on the consensus because the table captures, in reality, the overall responsibility of the Storing is undermined. The ultimate and overall responsibility for being able to dispose of the State's funds has been assigned to the Storting as the granting authority. The size must therefore have the real and not just the formal influence over proposals and decisions that have major economic consequences. The Committee's position focuses on the discussion of various aspects relating to the theme of majority and minority governments. There are marked differences of opinion between the parties, which are likely to be significantly influenced by the political situation in question three months before the decision to roll out. I think we should all be honest enough to admit that both majority and minority governments have clear advantages and disadvantages. It was not that Norway was a democratic ideal society from 1945 to 1965, when the Workers' Party had a clean majority or a mere majority. The one-party state, as a concept, is not what is perceived to be particularly democratic. On the other hand, there is not much to be drawn after the voters put together the Storting in such a way that a number of parties are represented with a variety of different special interests and mindsets without thought for the whole and governance. In fact, over the past 34 years, minority governments have been the normal situation in Norway. Only with the exception of the years 1983–1985, where Kåre Willoch led a majority government, has Norway had minority government since 1971. It is difficult to claim that Norway is a particularly disorderly country, when year after year we are treated by the UN as one of the world’s best countries to live in. The investigation of power and democracy has highlighted some of the developments that give rise to concern. At the same time, when dealing with such a big and important matter, we must measure the findings and conclusions presented by the Powers Investigation to us, from our own point of view, our own assessments and corrective information. We can't, as I have the impression that a little too many people have done in this case, uncritically add to what a group of researchers have come up with, like a kind of three-stroke phase below. I think the picture is much more nuanced than the majority in the power investigation has presented to us, and I think the discussion in the committee and the setting expresses just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e310	The power investigation has claimed that the rule of people is being reduced in a way, and that the power of elected bodies is being reduced, among others. through the so-called legalisation and transfer of tasks and destination powers to the so-called market forces. The President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Grand Duchy, was also concerned about exactly the same thing. He's absolutely right, there's some of us who think this is a sensible development. It is the way that ordinary citizens choose their representatives to be local governments, and they have done so – they are not going to do it much longer – into county councils, and of course they continue to choose to be local councils. There are the representatives who make decisions on behalf of the citizens. But there are a lot of things in life where citizens don't leave their power to any representative, but they keep it for themselves. In many private areas, each one decides how to organise one’s life — what kind of education to take, where to work, where to live — and one chooses how to spend one’s money on different goods and services. The transfer of power and decision-making power from elected representatives to citizens strengthens the individual's own ability to influence his or her life, strengthens families, strengthens individuals. I can't see that is negative in any way. In earlier times, many decisions were taken in the Storting, which is now being taken by the so-called market forces. It's a development that we think is positive. You'd think market forces are some dangerous stuff. Market forces are largely the sum of citizens. We believe that justice should be extended. In particular, it applies to some co-financed services. We fully agree that we should have joint financing of many services. But we humans are different, and then we think it's okay to choose a little different, and that it's actually going to be another important tool: competition between different providers. Today, for example, the system of care for the elderly that the public sector has largely a monopoly on the provision of services. There are co-financed solutions, where there are also rationalisation systems. We cannot understand that the same thing can be done in the care of the elderly as has been done in some schemes with social security. When a person becomes unemployed, they have a legal right to receive unemployment benefits, and no one says that the money is spent when you get in in November. The National Agency for Social Security through Aetat has an obligation to pay unemployment benefits, which you have an obligation to pay sickness benefits, which you have an obligation to pay maternity leave costs, which you have an obligation to pay disability benefits when someone has been declared unfit. But when it is stated that someone needs home help for so many hours, or home care, nursing home or nursing home, you have no rights if local politicians have chosen to build a new town hall or culture house instead of a hospital. Then you're standing on a waiting list, so to speak. We also want to shift the financial responsibility to the Swedish National Agency, and when it is declared that someone needs a health care centre – and that is what the public is supposed to control – it has to pay the health care home that the user or the relatives choose. And if they can't choose, of course, there's a public representative to do it. In the future, people would not have waiting lists in hospital places, but available places where they competed for the users. It's a system that moves things over to legalization, but that strengthens the individual. In reality, it removes the possibility for local politicians to give priority to care for the elderly, to remove hospitals, to give priority to care facilities for the benefit of a town hall, a cultural house, a sports field, and so on. That is what has happened in many communities in Norway. We want to do the opposite in the most important areas. We believe that users' freedom of choice will then be combined with Community funding. There is no contradiction between freedom of choice and community. The same applies to freedom of choice, for example: kindergartens, schools, etc. We do not see that the legalisation and transfer of power from elected representatives to the citizens themselves is a weakening of democracy – on the contrary. It is a strengthening of democracy. It's strange that many of the politicians who are afraid of shifting power to the citizens from elected bodies are not anxious to give up power to a bureaucracy, to departments. Then you abdicate your power, not for the benefit of the citizens, but often for the benefit of those who are called the experts. The best example is, in reality, the rule of action for the use of money in government budgets, where the economic situation was discussed in the past, whether or not to have an expansive fiscal and credit policy, based on how many unemployed there were: if there were very many, if economic activity increased, there was a shortage of labour, if inflation was to be prevented — relatively traditional social economic teachings. Now all of this has been moved to the secret spaces in the Ministry of Finance, where some calculate the structural budget deficit. Sometimes the oil-corrected structural budget deficit is also said. No one here in the Storting knows how this is calculated, no one knows how it happens, and no one knows how to control it. But once the government and the ministry have submitted their budget, the whole debate here in the Grand Duchy is based on not changing this so-called balance. It has become a sacred cow, and then one has abdicated one's own power completely. This is also the case in some legislation, for example: in the context of spatial planning, where local politicians inspect areas and process applications for building permits and exemptions from certain laws and use their discretion in the matters under consideration. Then there are many who say yes to grant an exemption to build on a cabin, a house or a garage, because the circumstances right there are such that it is not negative for others. But then there are some bureaucrats in the county's environmental department and they change the case, without at all having been on an inspection and without having investigated the real circumstances. In fact, the decision of the local elected representatives has been transferred to unknown bureaucrats in a county department. That, I think, is a much bigger problem than what the rapporteur had in mind when it came to legalizing and giving power to the citizens. Several times it has now become so that the elected people abdicate and leave power to unknown bureaucrats, who are almost uncontrollable. The best example here, I think, was the Minister for the Environment, who in a recent debate said that when he was in a local building council in the West, it was difficult to meet the various associations that applied for a derogation. It was difficult to see them in their eyes and say that they were not granted the application. It was so much easier now when he was Minister for the Environment, he said. Now it was much easier to say no, for now he let go of the burden of seeing the people who were disappointed in his decision, in his eyes. I think it's the kind that's dangerous, that you exercise power without having to be directly responsible to those who are affected by the decision. Something else that worries me, and that should worry about the Power Investigation, is who's going to decide some things within our criminal policy, for example. criminal law. Partly unanimous judicial committees have been complaining for very many years about the criminal prosecution from the courts. There have been attempts to strengthen the elected power to believe and assert that more stringent penalties are required. Our attempts to get it done have been in vain, because when we make concrete proposals to increase the penalties in the paragraphs, which are said to be the only way you can instruct and do something to the courts, you say no. At the same time, however, criticism is maintained of the lack of use by courts of the various possibilities for punishment, the criminal framework. I think that is also a sign that there we could strengthen the ability of the elected representatives to represent the people's clear wishes in this regard. The case rapporteur and the Powers Investigation were also concerned with the role of the media and the power of the media. As I see it, it's quite obvious that in very many areas the press is no longer the fourth state power, it's the first. It's obvious how what's being covered in our media will also characterize the other state powers. I am also concerned about the more and more knowledgeable and person-infected media, where information has almost become a stranger. Being correct, being honest and being case-oriented has become less and less relevant. A lot of us in this room have been at a lot of meetings, and when we've read about it in the media, watching television or listening to radio, we wonder if it's the same meetings we've been to. Often, there is a very clear political battle and angle in what is being referred to. Then there is a serious problem of how citizens, as voters, should be able to deal with it when the information is, in fact, partially absent. I have to be allowed to make a heart attack: I have been trying for many years to get both in the ether and in the printed media – when they refer to decisions that are not unanimous in the Stortinget, or possibly in local government – mention the names of the parties that have voted in favour, and those who have voted against, so that at least you could get information about such simple things. It also doesn't take a lot of slot space. Even that's about impossible. The whole thing decided yesterday, and it's said. Then we get phones asking why we voted in favour around the world, when we've fought like some lions against, because you don't have this sentence: the Storting decided it and it's against the votes of them and those parties. You can't even get information in that area. When the Dagbladet – the so-called informational cultural newspaper, concerned with society and social criticism – on 7 June of this year, the 100th anniversary of the Union’s abolition, has a huge appeal where one of the bigotry representatives’ interest in clothing is what is of interest on the first side, it says something about the maturity, at least in that paper! So finally, minority government versus majority government. I think it makes sense that you don't have a fixed view of this. After many years of weak minority governments, I think it makes a lot of sense to get a period of majority rule to ensure stability and predictability. If it's the same majority constellation that sits for a very long time, I think it might make sense that you might get a different government, and then a minority government like that -- that's something called power corrupts. After so many years of minority government, and weaker and weaker minority governments – now well the top is reached for the sitting, I guess – I think it makes sense that after the roll call, you try to get to some majority rule. Then more parties must come together and negotiate. It's claimed by many that there are two clear alternatives. We would argue that on the non-socialist side, there should be more people who had as their goal a majority government. We therefore also believe, as we say in the setting, that it is necessary to change the system, so that we can get a provision on investment – i.e. mandatory deployment decision after a roll-out decision – and a resolution right connected to investment. These changes in the rules of the game would probably help to ensure more effective and stable governments than those we have had for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e342	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the job he has done. The committee has had a short time to work with this message, and it is not least thanks to the job the rapporteur has done, which has enabled us to present a relatively complete setting in such a short time. Then you might have opinions about this setting, but at least it's a fact that the basis was laid there. The research group and all other contributors to the work on the Powers Investigation have produced a lot of substances. We know that what has been written has raised awareness in the rest of the world. Here what is now made must be the basis for further debate on democracy, power and popular rule, because a living democracy to develop in a modern age requires public debate and attention to developments. Who has power in society? Who is excluded from influence and participation? Are people interested in political issues – in case they are not, why? How do people get involved, not just every two years when the ballot is to be placed in the ballot box, but through participation and inclusion in the work to be done at both local level and through the decisions taken here on the Storting – including ordinary people in a far different way from what is being done today? The committee for the investigation of power and democracy was mandated to assess developments, not so much to make proposals. Our task now is to make proposals we have to expand democracy and to improve the rule of the people, if it's in confusion. As the rapporteur said, development is not a natural law. When the government of the people in the sense of the representative government of the people, the majority board, is confused, it is not because of a law of nature. This is mainly because politicians have abdicated – the majority in politics has abdicated for market forces. That's what Hagen was about to make the majority and minority visible, not abdidate to the market forces. So it's important to do something about how elected representatives can take the government back on behalf of the people. Local democracy is being emptied of political interest, it is said. Yes, it is being emptied first and foremost because the municipalities have been given many new tasks without being given the necessary resources to solve the new tasks. Around the municipalities it is now about where to cut, not how to develop community to become a living society in people's everyday lives. But it's possible to do something about it, if it's a willingness to redistribute from private wealth to the public sector. Or as Fredrik Engelstad, a member of the research group in the Power and Democracy investigation, wrote in the Evening Post yesterday: "When the Power and Democracy investigation showed that democracy is confusing, it was based on a belief that the regime of the peoples can be revitalised, even under new social conditions." Representative democracy is something more than a majority rule. It's, as the committee says, rights that give different people equal opportunities to participate, it's the right and the ability to speak in public talks, and it's the right to participate in political processes even outside elections. For SV, it makes little sense to talk about ‘basic democracy’ and ‘additional democracy’, as the majority of the power and democracy investigation does. Democracy is about how to distribute and control power for the benefit of society as a whole. We believe that too much power in society is gathered among people who do not make choices and who cannot be thrown into elections if the decisions taken are negative for many, for example. when profitable jobs are moved from a community, not because the enterprise does not have a profit, but because the return is not large enough. Such decisions prevent individuals from deciding on their own everyday lives. For this reason, SV will work for a much wider regime of peoples. Democracy must be extended to those parts of society that are currently governed by a few and powerful. A fairer distribution and defence of the welfare state as a security network for everyone's right to participate is important for the development of democracy. That is why we believe it is important to democratize business as well. To do that, it is important that we have strong popular movements that can stand up to ownership and group power. These are necessary to ensure popular governance of the social economy. I believe that popular movements are and must be an important part of democracy and a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. A strong trade union movement has been and must be a prerequisite for the development of democracy, as has the third sector with the many voluntary organisations that are still member-based, but also the new movements that have emerged in recent years, such as Attac and the peace movement. There can be no doubt that the strong mobilization against Norwegian support for the war in Iraq played an important democratic role. Many young people are involved in these movements towards economic globalisation. Interest is great, and politics is being discussed, and that is good. There is reason to be concerned about the development of representative democracy with lower turnouts and fewer party members. But all of a sudden, when you take everything into account, democracy lives. It's a challenge for the parties that lose members, to open up to what's called action democracy, to the new movements. Much has happened since we had the previous power and democracy investigation, among other things. there has been a quiet women's revolution. But the most important thing is that there has been a gigantic surrender of power to the market. Our democracy and rule of the people and our welfare state and popular participation have developed within the framework of the nation state. There is no doubt that it is under pressure. Power is granted to multinational companies, to the market, to the WTO and to the EEA. The results are deregulation, privatisation and outsourcing, and less power over and control of natural resources. This has been done by political decisions, without facilitating public debates. SV wants one to review what the WTO agreements have now had to say for the development of the People's Government of our own country and for the development of the other countries, before new agreements are made with the WTO. The government needs to facilitate more transparency in Norway’s participation in the WTO context. This means that documents must be public and accessible to stimulate an open debate. It is a challenge for the Government of the People's Party that a number of issues that affect what municipalities can and cannot do, and what the Storting can do, are decided in just international negotiations such as the WTO negotiations. It is done without prior debate, without transparency. SV believes that a strong public sector is a prerequisite for democracy. A strong public sector provides rights as a prerequisite for equal opportunities. I see that the dividing lines here in the hall, which may be the basis for an active and vital debate until the fall, are just thinking that we have a different view of the development of the public sector. In the setting, we point out that the current governance ideology, ‘New Public Management’, has been one of the most important tools for the public sector to be under pressure for several years. The idea behind New Public Management has been the dismantling of the public sector. It has led to unit price financing, competitive outsourcing, the order/execution model and greater involvement of corporate economic thinking in the public sector. The power and democracy investigation has addressed this. Researcher Didrik Seip concluded that ‘most Norwegian competition experiments have failed’. In its opinion, the UHO points out that precisely this guiding ideology is an important reason for the threat to the freedom of expression of employees. We believe that «New Public Management» must be phased out and replaced by a governance ideology that builds up under a strong community and builds up under cooperation between employees and users. Equality has become a topic of the Power and Democracy investigation. It wasn't obvious that it was going to be like this. Now I'm going to tell you a little, hidden secret. When the debate on the 1998 budget took place and the mandate for the power and democracy investigation was debated, equality was only a small, secondary issue. Mobilising from the adult women across and between women in research was the reason why Hege Skeie was given a place in the Power and Democracy Investigation Committee, and equality was to be illuminated in a much stronger way than was foreseen. We have a woman-friendly welfare state. There is a reason why women work, work and give birth to children at the same time far more than in other countries. But equality has always had "weekly duty" as Hege Skeeie writes. She writes it in her books and her particular comments, and she analyses the distance between the verbal enthusiasm for equality at the top level of Norwegian society and a sustained extreme human dominance at the same peaks. The problem of the diffuse goodwill, she calls it. In the 2000 elite survey, she and other researchers found that there was a gender distribution of 84 pst. men and 16 pst. women among the elite, and that the men of this sheath were twice the women's. The number is '84' pst., says High Skeeie. It turns out that there is also the figure for women's share of men's wages. I agree with High Skeie's approach to equality's rights perspective. It is a principle of freedom and democracy, the right to self-determination, freedom from discrimination, infringements and violence, equal rights of participation. The gender dimension of rights policy and statutory rights is about individual and collective participation. For example, new leave rights provide new opportunities for mothers' pay and fathers' care. The right to full time should now be the time to decide by law. Part-time women have consequences for retirement, for pay and for careers, and much of it is involuntary in order to solve the community's demands for rotation. We think it is high time that we now have an equal pay commission, as several hearing bodies have called for. Something else will be left to practice the emoluments of equality. We think it is high time we incorporated both the UN Commission on Women and the UN Committee on Racial Discrimination into human rights legislation. Something else would be to say that large groups are second-class citizens. So finally a little bit about local policy. There is no doubt that it is the foundation of democracy, because many of the decisions taken are taken close to people and with people. However, it is a little wrong to say that it is the rights, the legal process, which means that local policy is being tapped, because rights have given power to the outrageous. We agree that earmarked grants are to be replaced in relation to framework funding, but earmarked grants also have their mission when reforms are to be introduced, when they are to be implemented, and they must not enter the framework until they are fully financed. The situation for, among others: The cultural schools show exactly that. But if you think that local democracy is being tapped, then you have to be willing to go new ways. For example, we propose so-called participatory budgeting, that decision-making processes can be transferred from local government to bodies where everyone has the right to meet and influence, for example. when setting priorities for the local government budgets. We are calling for more use of referendums, so that more initiatives from people can most often be taken up by local governments, and not least for the introduction of voting rights for 16-year-olds. If one really takes seriously the participation of young people, the responsibility of young people, one must also give them the opportunity to participate in representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e388	Governments are constantly evolving. A lively debate on the role of democracy in society is important to all of us. I am therefore pleased that the big message of power and democracy will be discussed today. The Storting Message provides a broad review of the situation of the Norwegian People's Government in the light of the assessment of the Power and Democracy distribution. The previous power distribution that delivered its final report in 1981 discussed its power at the expense of elected bodies, while the new distribution, among other things, discussed its power. addresses the searchlight on a transfer of power to legal bodies and not least to the role of the media. The Storing Communication reviews important developments in different forms of participation, batch development and management changes. Development is not black and white. There are positive as well as negative trends. The majority paints a gloomy picture of Norwegian democracy's state. The main image of the plural is that the government of the People's Party is rather confused than that it is being transformed. I don't want to support such a gloomy image. I want to highlight that the image is much more nuanced and that there are much more positive developments. The Christian People's Party wants a government with a high level of participation and a strong commitment. A reduction in participation in local elections and low participation among young people is not good. But I don't agree that the government is in danger. The majority point out that the parties need modernisation and that they should show greater willingness to debate and participate in individual issues of which people are concerned. I think the plural draws a negative picture of the political parties. I also don't show up in such a gloomy image, and I want to highlight that the image is much more nuanced. I refer to the following quotation from the ‘Velegere in the 90s’ by Bernt Aardal: «The confidence of politicians, parties and political systems is not at all decreasing. On the contrary, confidence is higher in the 1997 elections than in the previous two. Given the large selection migrations and the displacements between the lots, this is in many ways a surprising finding. Not least, it is in direct conflict with the picture drawn in the mass media.» There is great confidence in the democratic system in Norway, and people also influence political decisions through forms of participation other than elections. I would specifically like to take the media for myself in my article today. Media has a lot of power in a democracy. In this way, one might sum up the point about the media in the big news from the Government on Power and Democracy. There is a lot of research and distribution behind the discussion that has now come to the Storting, and we all know how much media has to say in a modern democracy. The Committee has joined in the development of power and democracy in describing developments in information and communication technologies as a revolution that devastates its borders and changes the distribution of power in society. Media is constantly changing, in line with technological developments and general societal developments. In just 25 years we have gone from one channel on radio and television to a complex media gap with new technological solutions. Local media may become losers due to the merging of media channels and the increasing media competition. The Christian People's Party will have a review of the framework conditions for these media. Local media are central cultural operators and provide a wide range of views and opinions in the local social debate. A rich newspaper flora should preserve democratic, cultural and linguistic values. I therefore still want press support to secure a rich newspaper flora, national and local. We need to secure the arenas for debate on key developments in society. We need a wide range of quality media. Together with the Committee, I would like to show that during the management of new Section 100 of the Constitution, the Stortinget paid particular attention to its responsibilities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. Things in the community and in local policy often have good first-hand knowledge. Things from other parts of the country are only passed on to us through the media. Then we need newspapers and television so that we can form a sense of what is going on. Then we need media that is to be trusted. We need to trust that newspapers and television take up the important issues and the important parts of a matter. Too often there will be more person than matter. The distribution of power and democracy points to, among others: the media has great power over the reputation of politicians. The distribution is as follows: ‘The media decide who is to be gilded and who is to lose shine in political life.’ Such personal focus often leads to drowning, and the policy being distorted from the long-term and principled to the current and personal. Such focus may also lead to a faster pace of political processes than would otherwise be. This doesn't always have to be negative. It can get a case out of a departmental drawer and thus up to handling. On the other hand, the danger is that only parts of a case will arise on this basis, and the decision may be incomplete, or in the worst case, errors. To make decisions in complicated matters, it is a premise that you have knowledge of the facts. Sometimes not only do people have to give way to the case, often there are more conflicts about the real realities that political powers need to make decisions. From the Control and Constitutional Committee, the restructuring in the Defence is a relevant example in this way. There, VG, Dagbladet and TV 2 jumped after the politicians who, at random, announced mistrust proposals. Just like that in this case. This is also related to another and even more important page. The media is greatly tempted to influence the agenda and the people's opinion and can thus influence the outcome of the elections. We can therefore assume that the media has a direct impact on the composition of political bodies. Denmark has just had a similar power statement as the one we've had in Norway. This documents a number of individual issues in which the media have been directly followed up by political decisions. An interesting question about all this host: who has power over the media? Ownership concentration may be the most pressing problem for the Norwegian editors today. In the long term, media businesses, social actors and not least the majority of people, who are to form the most true picture of important things in society, are not lit with strong bonds and ownership concentrations between various types of media. That is why I believe that concentration on the owner's side in the future must be on the agenda of the various editorials. It must be the duty of the press to put critical searchlights in what way the media fulfills its social role, as the Ver Varsam poster also encourages the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e432	50 books, 75 reports, a number of publications, and 50 listening statements form the basis for the shopping message. The Central Party believes that the treatment of the distribution of power and democracy today does not set a point for debates that are very important to us in the time that lies ahead. Here there is a very valuable substance that should still be noted. A single location in a message is expressed as a'serious challenge' utility. It applies in relation to the State/municipal sector, where one of the following is written in the message: ‘In a longer time perspective, there seems to be a significant difference in many areas between the intentions of Storing and the Government regarding the emphasis on municipal autonomy on the one hand and the actual policies on the other.’ It is pointed out that this relates to both the form of funding, legal governance and the scope of municipal responsibility, and that is where the Government writes that this is: ‘a serious challenge for the relationship between state and local government, and for the future of local democracy’. The power allocation concludes the same way. The government’s response to this challenge is that there needs to be a willingness to emphasise the value of local self-government in the many individual issues where conflict between the desire for government and local self-government arises. The centre party would stress that, in addition to good will, there is a need to discuss: greater use of the public administration’s basic lawmaking of local self-government more obliging consultation arrangements between the State and KS on the means needed to solve the problem,that a greater proportion of the value creation and tax receipts areindicated in local authorities’ particular attention to individualised rights in the area of local administration is responsible forpreparing the impact of the local self-government of all local government’s reform and development efforts in the community sector inconsequences that have a significant impact on local self-government that the cost of reforms is to a greater extent calculated by neutral bodies Municipalities and municipalities are social developers. Local authorities must be strengthened as a social actor. It does not only involve the classic development tasks in planning, industrial development, local environmental work and welfare-creating activities in the local environment. At the same time, attention is focused on local democracy, administration and service provision and on the holistic approach to municipal activity. It's in the municipalities people cage. It is within the municipality boundaries that the inhabitants choose representatives of the upper body of the municipality. The current ideas behind the modernisation work in the municipal sector over the last ten years, often called New Public Management, contribute to disintegration and to demands for competition and profitability in each individual leak. This governance ideology seems to limit a holistic development of the community. We have, as SV, noted Didrik Seip’s reminder that ‘most of the Norwegian competition experiments have failed’. The centre party is in no doubt that there is a need for a change in the direction of a governance ideology that builds up under a strong Community ideology. We look forward to the work now to be done to prepare the transfer of state power and responsibility to a regionally elected level, and to an evaluation of what the health reform itself has done to change the possibilities of word change and influence. The National Council of Norway Children’s and Youth Organisations is between several hearing bodies for the message. The centre party will have a strong strengthening of the free-will sector. It doesn't just have a very important self-esteem, with all the meaningful work being done, it's also a very important recruitment base into popular work. Providing local media with better working conditions is also a task for those who want to learn more strongly about local issues and information. One of the themes that is very important in this issue is legalization. A development towards several individual courts may result in more and more cases being sought in the judiciary. This may mean that those who have resources will win in the right direction and in the media. Major social differences may follow unintentionally. A broad majority in the committee are some of them. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that new courts have given power to more people. The right to education and health care has given, and gives, equivalency and unmistakeable equality in important areas. Problems related to legal redress are particularly relevant in the case of international agreements regulating trade and the economy, such as the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. In such cases, legalisation could lead to a weakening of democracy by reducing the influence of the populace on development. Fundamental rights enshrined in other international conventions and in national political and legislative decisions are at risk of being undermined. The EEA Agreement is becoming increasingly extensive, the ESA monitoring body and the EFTA Court have played a very active role in expanding the interpretation of the basic principle of the EEA Agreement. It had quite clearly been in place with a review and an analysis of this development in the message. The WTO has developed into an important venue for decisions in many areas relating to trade in goods and services where the consequences of trade policy and competition measures can extend far beyond pure trade. The government has a great responsibility to facilitate more transparency in Norwegian participation in WTO contexts, so that there is a better public debate on Norway’s participation in future negotiations. It is a major challenge for the People's Rule that a number of questions of national value are settled through international negotiations where there is little transparency in the process, and where the elected people are only presented with the possibility of saying yes or no to a negotiated agreement afterwards. The multinational companies have a lot of power through their expansion and economic weight in world trade. The central party believes that Norway must actively contribute to increasing the transparency and control of these companies' activities and to limit the scope of these companies' access, for example. in the case of trade in services. Many have happened since the last manifestation of power when it comes to sex and power. We believe that time is now in the hands of a commission that looks at equal pay for equal work. The chapter on a diverse multicultural population requires increasing attention in the future. A multicultural society requires active distribution and education policies. Language and work are decisive. It is important to stress that this is a two-way process between multiples and minorities. In this matter, the centre party raised the question of the distribution of language and power. We refer to the research group's mandate, such as: reads: ‘Important prerequisites for representative democracy are that the individual uses his voice...’ One of the three issues the research group was asked to discuss was: ‘In what way are the individual’s opportunities for influence and participation in organisational and social life affected?’ We want a discussion of the importance of language policy for power and democracy. Language policy is not just about language and standardisation. It's about broad cultural policies, it's about tradition transfer, identity, inclusion and security of local communities. During this period, the size has taken many decisions when it comes to language, for example: book goals and new Norwegians are equivalent target forms, that there is a language policy objective of having a safe position both as a living language of use and as an equivalent official language of writing alongside book goals, and much more. There is no doubt that many of the 600,000 new drug users are currently experiencing a great pressure towards a change. There may be a school that is converted to only one language, or a municipality that is left to be neutral, because there are no case handlers who write anew. There are many laptops coming from the Government. In the Storting, there is also a great potential for improvement. We are supported by the SV and the Coastal Party, and also by far from the Workers' Party. The centre party will handle this matter to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e502	This is a little special day for me. I remember well when, as a teenager, I listened to the Barnetim, and Hernes presented his power investigation and explained that it was probably the LO leader who had the most power in the country and not the Prime Minister, which one decade old thought was fundamentally unfair. Now I've spent three months of my life trying not to do that again. I also sat in the Council of the Powers Investigations, which is why it is particularly polite to be involved in this debate. There are many important warnings in this case. What the Left is particularly concerned about is our local democracy, which is under pressure, and the law of rights, which is growing, is a rule of law where the frameworks are not linked. I think it is important to distinguish between some universal action and trying to save individual groups by legislating rights. I'll illustrate this by the following story. When I was standing up at Stovner a while ago, an old lady came to me and said, "Now I finally have a diagnosis of my suffering. That means I have a lot of rights that are being solved. Now my time is full of aids, but no one is coming to help me with what I really need, namely to clean the windows. I would like to have replaced everything I have in the process, so that someone can come and help me with that. It's not that we here in the hall know what everyone needs, and it's not that rights laws move power to the citizen. In fact, we're citizens, not mechanical machines. That's why we have to participate in the design of the solutions around us. Nor is there any power at all to prevent if we are to rule by right-wing legislation from here. When we know that some of the most expensive orphanages in this city, for example. may cost up to $12 million. kr a year, it is clear that we can do an incredible amount in cultural prevention to avoid such a situation. SV is wrong, because using rights laws does not actually give power to them with few resources, it gives power to them with a lot of resources that are able to pursue their rights. That's why we're on the west side of this town more and more actually seeing teachers meet lawyers when they go to their parents' meeting. But then we must have politicians who resist the tabloid pressure and who tolerate taking the consequences of it. Then we have to have a local democracy commission, as the Left has taken the initiative in this room. But it is also true that voters and local politicians are not stupid. With representatives like Hagen, who want to transfer everything to rights law, trust in local democracy will be less and less, because people realize that there is no sense in voting for someone who has no power. People don't want to spend time saying in an organ where they don't feel that it's power. If the only confidence we have in local politicians is that they can build cabins in shelters and run scooters in the mountains, it's not much trust we have. Local politicians should see their voters in their eyes all the time, not just in the case of scooter driving. They must do it in the case of nursing homes, kindergarten, school and health. The great threat to our local democracy is populism that rages, and the Power Investigation shows in one of its partial investigations that here it is the SV and the Progress Party that is worst. It goes well with what has been said in the debate earlier. The rapporteur said that there is a lot of root in the picture that was created in the 1950s and that it is passivating. There is no European trend that we are getting fewer parties. Although at the hearing Brørby expressed that she felt it was a little special that a party like the Left could at all be allowed to ask questions about majority rule, I will still do so. We've had minority governments since the 1960s, and it's a problem only when the Workers' Party is in opposition. It's clear that it would have been more tidy with majority rule, but that doesn't mean it would have been more democratic. It's hardly more predictable to have a majority government. It just moves the compromises into enclosed spaces, the power becomes less visible, and it becomes no longer understandable, and two party systems have never led to a more active people. The left is proud of history as the mother of democracy in Norway. There are other parties that have a history where they have snuffed out other forms of government. The liberal ideas underpin Norwegian democracy. We're happy with that, and we'll always fight for that. I think it is foolish that the rapporteur, who thought this was such a very important matter that he wanted to put this on, has decided that we do not get a debate where it is possible to actually use any longer reasoning. I want to use the opportunity to draw myself a 3 minute post, so maybe I'll get a few more themes than a party gets to do in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e528	It's registered!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e532	We have a common responsibility to renew and further develop our democratic heritage. The current committee position shows a cross-political interest in it, but also concerns about the conditions of the People's Government. The power and democracy investigation was launched during the central government and took place between 1998 and 2003. It resulted in over 50 books and probably 75 reports. It was a challenge for the Government to delineate the handling of the issues in the investigation and provide a policy response to the challenges. One main point for us was to give a full discussion of part of the main challenges, and not have ambitions to cover all areas. As mentioned above, the conclusion of the Powers Investigation is in many ways gloomy. It claims that the regime as a form of government is in confusion and that the power of political bodies is weakened. I find it interesting to note that the tone of the Danish power investigation, which was conducted at the same time as the Norwegian, is much more optimistic. It is almost astounded at how good it actually is. It is important to focus on negative developments. Criticism is necessary and healthy. However, it is also important to assess the impact of criticism. It's not to be swallowed raw. We must not be so concerned about seeing the shortcomings that we forget the many positive changes that have been made in recent decades. In several fields, I think there is reason to introduce nuances of the investigation's manufactures. The four key issues considered in the Communication are: Is democratic participation weakened?Are the administrative reforms, among others. The so-called legalisation poses a threat to the rule of the people?Is there a fundamental ambiguity between collapse and government that weakens the rule of the people? The Communication contains thorough discussions on all these key issues. It addresses the challenge, but also highlights more positive developments. A key challenge is the participation of the population in democratic processes. A joint committee stresses that a functioning local democracy is a prerequisite for trust and legitimacy in the National People's Government. Therefore, it is worrying that over time there has been a significant decrease in participation, especially in local elections, to 59 pst, respectively. at the last municipal elections and barely 56 pst. at the last state elections. Here, too, we, as national politicians, have a share of responsibility. In state governance, the room for action can be small for local politicians, and fewer can find it worth voting on them. Therefore, the Government, through regulatory simplification measures and proposals for the inclusion of earmarked grant schemes, wanted to increase local freedom of action. It is a constant challenge to avoid undermining the efforts of our local people's elected representatives by the centralising tendencies of the People's Government. I have noticed that the number of committees, all except the Advance Party, points to problems with state detail management and earmarked grants. Then we must also follow up in practice! I point out that the bulk of the population has voted against several of the Government's proposals on the inclusion of earmarked grants in the free framework. There are different views in the setting on changes in the way the public sector is governed. Often, different views here will be decisive lines of policy. The administrative reforms that have been carried out, both during my reigns and during various labor party governments, I do not consider primarily as a weakening of the rule of the people. I believe, on the contrary, that we can achieve a better target achievement and more efficient resource use by delegating, releasing and more overarching governance than we did at previous times often in detail management. However, we must retain public responsibility for the basic welfare services. It is also important that our supervision does not become so independent in practice that they balance the balances that should be made by political authorities. The evaluations of the power and democracy investigation into the risk of power shifts from elected bodies to judicial bodies are discussed in depth in the notification. We share some of the investigation's concerns, but also see the need for further analysis in this field. It's a challenge for the legislative power, i.e., odelsting and laying, to design laws as precisely as possible. In this way, laws and rights can serve as an important tool for realising elected governance, not weakening it. But it is when laws are largely unclear and add up to discretion, that democratic governance is weakened. The notification highlights the value of binding international agreements both to ensure respect for human rights and to ensure market access on a level playing field for our businesses. Major challenges for the world society are in nature transcending borders. Examples can be environmental challenges and organised crime. Mandatory international agreements may be the way in which national democracies meet these challenges. However, it is important in this context to know something about the consequences of the agreements, in order to assess whether the benefits are greater than the costs. The notification also facilitates discussion of different rules governing the interaction between government and magnificence and is an invitation to address the relationship between state powers. I don't think there's any reason to give a one-sided negative description of the relationship between big business and government. The Communication also assesses international experiences with minority governments. Reference is made to the fact that experience with minority governments may vary. To take Denmark as an example: In the 1970s, minority governments in Denmark conducted a less successful policy, while in the 1990s minority governments in the same country led a successful economic policy. Someone might think that I'm drawing out positive elements of minority governments as a unilateral defense for the policy of my two minority governments. That's not the point. It is, however, a point that the normal situation in Norwegian policy since 1971 has been that the country has been governed by minority governments, including very many workers’ party governments. Different minority governments have helped to pursue a policy that has brought about the welfare society we have today. There have been disputes about many individual issues, but in important cases we have managed to reach common solutions across party boundaries, which are now the last of them at the pension settlement. Although there are conditions we have to deal with, I actually think I can say that Norway is well managed also with minority governments. I noticed from the committee setting that these are views that are shared by the centre party and a bit on the way by SV. Compromises are often assessed negatively by giving so-called unclear responsibilities. But I also want to emphasize that compromises can actually work together. In my opinion, it is a democratic strength of minority governments that they need to find such unifying solutions. According to Bergen’s Official Journal of 7 June – of all days on 7 June – Professor of State Law, Per Stavang, in connection with a seminar on the Stortinget in the last hundred years: ‘We’ve lived well with minority governments in the last hundred years, and the Bondevik government is as strong as many of those we’ve had before.’ I don't want to disagree with the professor on this point. But this doesn't mean I'm looking negative at being able to have majority governments. On the contrary, it has many advantages. But the main point is that if there is to be a majority government, there must be a political basis for it. A majority government is not anything seductive, sedentary to a good government. There has to be a political basis in this case, and it does not, it can be a worse option than a minority government. Finally. The investigation of power and democracy points out that media developments are leading to increased personal focus in policy. I'd like to say to the press lodge that this is not just what politicians say. This is said in the Powers Investigation. Long-term and principal questions go away easily. This is a common challenge for our political system. As politicians, it's our responsibility to see the whole thing. We have to do that despite the volatility we can often find in the media. Now I think in the name of justice it often gets wrong to cut all the media over one comb. It is also good examples in the media of those who see the whole and who discuss it. But there is a frightening trend towards increased tabloidisation, where clothing and hairstyles become more important than central, democratic issues. The announcement of power and democracy is intended to contribute to a fundamental debate on our political system. The current committee position is thus bringing forward important elements, and when this is to be annexed to the protocol today, I hope that these assessments will be taken into account when we also need to discuss continuously and in the future the state of democracy and also the many individual issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e590	The investigation of power and democracy raises important questions relating to the relationship between the State and the municipalities. The reforms implemented in the mid-1980s would increase local freedom of action. However, according to the investigation, the State has imposed standardised requirements on the municipalities, limiting local self-determination. Municipalities are entrusted with a number of new tasks but have not been allocated sufficient resources to carry out all tasks satisfactorily. The requirements for improving efficiency are increasing, the requirement for the budget balance also in municipalities seems in many cases more important than keeping an acceptable standard for the population. Also, the use of earmarked funds represents a restriction on local self-government. The national audit carried out a survey of this use a few years ago. On the one hand, major reforms were initiated through the earmarked grant schemes, and pilot projects were launched. On the other hand, earmarked grants as provided for municipal co-financing were found to contribute to increasing income differences between municipalities. In other words, the rich municipalities that had the opportunity to contribute financially to the projects received considerable support. The economically disadvantaged did not receive a corresponding gain. If we look at the trends in the context, there is reason to ask questions about whether local government is at risk. Decreases in electoral participation in municipal and county elections are an indication of this. As long as responsibility and real decision-making are not followed, people's belief in and interest in participation in local government and county councils will be weakened. As I see it, the financing of municipalities should mainly be through framework funding and, as a result, there may be some major differences and differences in the service provision between municipalities. Another important theme is the question of the division of tasks between the different levels of the population. There's a reason to think about whether we have a functional distribution between state, state and municipality. Is it e.g. stated that responsibility for agricultural and environmental matters should lie with the county and not with the county or, for that matter, with the municipality? If it becomes relevant to establish regions to replace the counties – and I actually have quite a lot of strong opinions about that, which I am not going to take now – I would like to ask: What are these tasks? I'm glad that a joint committee is concerned with the functional distribution among the elected bodies. In a separate note, the Committee stresses the importance of the distribution in a way that ensures active participation in the population: ‘The proximity and importance of decisions taken by decision-making bodies for individuals are important in this context. Similarly, questions of democratic anchoring and securing legitimacy in the population through a clear division of tasks to be addressed should be settled before any new regional bodies are established.’;» I think this is very important. In my view, our ability to give the various elected bodies sufficient resources and influence to choose how to solve the different tasks will be crucial for the future local democracy. If we get elected bodies without real power, the pessimistic statements of the Power and Democracy investigation that the People's Government is confusing will actually come true.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e614	Power investigations are long-range. Ideally, once a power investigation has been brought into the staging room through the processing that takes place first from the government and then through the committee work in the Storting, the main issues were to be clarified, the general lines more clearly, and it was to appear as a process in which the research provides new insights and thus also adds new energy to the political system. The reader of the committee setting The Stortinge treats today, from this point of view, will, in my view, be more confused and perhaps even a little frustrated, because there is a committee setting that cracks in an unusually many directions of the sky, and that has an unusually large number of fractional comments and very few common views. Let me, as a small side note, point out that, in my view, it confirms that, in the future, when the Rules of Procedure are to be used to set up a special committee to deal with specific matters, it is appropriate to follow the Rules of Procedure to do so, not to do so at this time, to leave the responsibility of one of the Permanent Committees of the Grand Duchy, supplemented by representatives of the parties which, incidentally, are not represented in this committee. Social research is not an exact science. It shouldn't be and can never be. The reasons for this are many, but it is primarily linked to the fact that all social research depends on working explicitly or implicitly with a comparative approach. To analyse trends in societal development, there is a need to compare them. In reality, the alternatives are just two – either you compare them to other societies in your day, and you look at how they evolve in different ways from our own, or you compare historically, that is. with previous phases of our own Norwegian social development. It is probably right to say that the investigation of power and democracy has done the last and, to a lesser extent, the first. The comparison with other communities is largely confined to our Nordic neighbouring countries, and in particular Denmark, because the Danes happened to carry out a similar investigation approximately at the same time with us. Several speakers have commented that there is a striking difference in the main findings and assessments between the Danish and Norwegian investigations. It would have been desirable if the researchers behind the two investigations had come together after the work has now been done, in order to reach an agreement on this really because developments in Denmark and Norway have gone very differently, or because of different approaches, different approaches, different factors, different weights. It's in itself an interesting research assignment. It is probably also right to remind – for those here in the Chamber who are particularly concerned about internationalisation in general and the impact on the rule of the people and Europeanisation in particular and the impact on the regime – that Denmark has now been a member of the European Union for 33 years. It seems that the Danish People's Government, as they judge it for themselves, is much more vital and vital than the Norwegians are. It is natural that the fractions of the committee work here in the house read material of the type presented by the Power Investigation, in accordance with the reading principle introduced by the Peer Gynt: ‘You have to read to swallow, but to see what you can use.’ It is also relatively easy to see in the committee setting that most people have found something they can use, and that they are largely satisfied with what confirms the political points of view and the insight they already had, leaving the rest behind. Maybe it's natural. At the same time, it is a little disappointing, because it may indicate that willingness to learn is not the most prominent feature of our parliamentary democracy. The discussion of majority governments and minority governments is, in my view, relatively uninteresting. It's a purely numerical and formalistic exercise that doesn't ask for political content. But it is now one of the peculiar features of our Norwegian parliamentary democracy throughout the last hundred years, not only in the years since 1971, that largely minority governments have been the rule and majority governments the exception. But the exciting question is – and remains – the relationship between the legislative and executive state authority, regardless of the numerical coverage of a government among the parties in the Stortinget. The fundamental problem in the relationship between the state powers and the classical doctrine of the balance between the three state powers — the legislative, the executive and the judge — is the elementary historical experience that it is vital to hold power and responsibility together. Negatively: to counteract the tendency for power and responsibility to separate layers, so that the exercise of power becomes difficult to control, difficult to see through and even more difficult to balance. From my own professional background, it is obvious that the will for power is always greater than the will for responsibility. It applies at individual level, at group level, at national level and at international level. It is another name for the term “hereditary sin”. The question we have to ask about our own political system and the way we use it is whether we are currently in a phase in which the tendency to separate power and responsibility becomes more and more conspicuous. This has to do with the relationship between government and greatness. Parliamentarism presupposes that if the Stortninget wants to dictate a government policy different from that of the Government itself, the Stortinget has in principle one way to do so, namely to acquire a new government. That is to say, it must always be a will to power the opposition in the Storting, which is at the same time a will to assume responsibility. Otherwise, what is negatively often expressed as big business is that there is a punctuated war in which the Storing begins to rule in detail, but in ways that leave great doubt as to who is responsible for implementing what has been adopted. At my discretion, the so-called kindergarten settlement is a very good example of the ambiguity that arises when the Storting falls for the temptation to go shortcutways to the establishment of power without being willing to take responsibility. Finally. I am fundamentally optimistic on behalf of the Norwegian People's Party. It is far more robust and tougher than one at a pessimistic moment is tempted to believe. Therefore, I am also fundamentally convinced that if our society is going to be in serious crisis situations in the years to come that will require far greater accountability and sacrifice than what characterises the Norwegian society per. Today, we will be able to mobilize it. But the premise is that we don't continue to stimulate the will to power without any will for responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e647	We have just marked the 7th of June and the 100th anniversary of the resolution of the Union between Norway and Sweden. Media has described both the people elected to handle the issue of own consulates and the folklore about the issue of an own royal house after Oscar 2 had thrown the cards. It is with admiration that we can confirm that this was a silent and non-violent Union resolution, and that the participation in the referendum was subsequently great among those who had the right to voice. Even those who did not have the right to vote, women, create their own signature campaign to express their views on the Union's resolution. Today we work hard to get the voter participation up both by local and by roll-out options – the participation goes on and on again. The big question is, has the distance between the politicians and the voters increased? Or is wealth so great that it doesn't mean so much to the voters who are in multiples? These are questions we need to figure out — quickly. If it's unimportant who has the power of politics, it's obvious that a lot of people burn for singles. Action democracy lives in the best of health and well-being. Participants may engage in individual matters without having to decide on all aspects of social development as a whole. It is a glimmer of thought that in new democracy in many developing countries the voters stand in line for days to hear. In the United States, at the last presidential election, we saw that many were in line to voice, with previous presidential elections freshly in mind. The question then is: can we organise the political work at local level to make it more attractive to the inhabitants? It must be possible to improve the way in which individuals, and groups responsible for that matter, are given their influence on the policy without thereby committing themselves to their participation, at least in the first instance, not having an interest in it. The political parties create their contract with the voters through their programs. How many processes will be played? This might be a barometer of what we're waiting for. The selectors have valuable inputs to make even if they are not members of a particular game. Here we can improve a lot, and a lot has been done. Jørgen Kosmo said in his speech that the parties are the foundation of democracy. I agree, but it should be possible to look at solutions there, for example. be able to select 10-15 pst. by representatives of local and county elections in the event of direct elections, or perhaps even bolder reforms. I don't think the representativity had been weighty for that reason. It is claimed that major substitutions in elections are unfortunate for democracy. But it's also possible to see this in a more organic light. By being frequent, grassroots contacts are strengthened, because those who are new politicians like to have better contact where they come from – grassroots – than the administration that really is the continuity of our different agencies. Another positive effect is that more people get a direct knowledge of how democracy works. This was something Audun Offerdal had on the wallpaper by the previous power arrangement. It is also necessary to look closer to the recruitment basis. It's important that sex and age reflect society. And it is important that representatives, with their professional background, do the same. In order to ensure the quality of policy decisions, contacts between policy-makers and voters need to be strengthened, especially where the system of full-time policy-makers is in use. Many big business and social policymakers host parts of their holidays. That's good. I think it would have been healthy for democracy if a system was tried out in which the representatives of the Stortinge met in the first two years of the period, were out in the working life of the third year – usually related to the trade committee – and then returned to Stortinget in the fourth year. This would make those who decide better aware of how the decisions we take affect those who will live with the decisions, and would have the added effect of speeding up the implementation of the work at Stortinget. Several would thus be well spared to work. In the 1970s and 1980s, several people tried their way into the service of democracy by the fact that there was a wide range of advice and selections to be manned or "concealed". Now these 'efficient' ones are gone. Continuous representation is more ‘in the shot’. What is lost and what is the gain would have been a study worth. The fact that more people have to try their way into democracy's service, and in a limited area, is perhaps one of the answers to action democracy. The lobbying activity has increased a lot, and I think that's the most positive aspect of it. Nevertheless, it is the responsibility of politicians – at any level – to ensure that matters are as well informed as advice is given, including: by asking the necessary questions. I am concerned about the sectorization we have here in the Grand Duchy, and the debate we have here today shows it by the fact that there are too few in the Chamber. Today, the hall was to be fully filled. The power and democracy debate will never be over. That debate must be kept warm and protected, as we must with democracy as a form of governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e684	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e687	The power investigation raises many challenges in relation to what we want: a democracy with broad political commitment and active participation. But, as the debate also shows, it is easier to point to the alarming features than to find the good opposites. Then this is also a matter where we can and should allow ourselves the possibility of more reflection than agitation. It might also be one of the remedies to strengthen confidence in politicians and policies to move the political debate more towards reflection. An overall committee says in the opinion that it is essential that the people's representatives retain control of development. I think it is important that we place greater emphasis on the fact that there are many forces that govern the development of society. To give an example: researchers who develop new medicines or treatments influence health budgets and health services more strongly than anyone in this room. I think this is important, because we should strive for a social debate that gives people a more realistic picture of what it is we can rule through political decisions, and how, and what escapes our governance opportunities, and why. I don't think anyone wants a society where everything is determined by politicians. But then we also have to be careful so we don't give the impression that we can decide everything. The political debate sometimes gives such an impression, and then, of course, disappointment becomes evident when supplies fail. Then it is the confidence of politicians and politicians that is being plentiful. In the setting, the government parties say that there will, of course, be both advantages and disadvantages of both minority and majority governments. The representative Martin Engeset illustrated this by looking at what he called the one-party state, and pointed out that the country is not out of control, although it has been largely a minority government since 1971. It's good that the country is run by minority governments. Now the Prime Minister said there were many advantages to majority governments. It might have been interesting to hear the benefits of minority governments over majority governments. It has not been heard in the debate or seen in the vote. One can understand the need for this government to defend the excellence of the minority government, because it will not fully acknowledge its entire parliamentary basis, but to raise minority governments and coalitions to a more democratic structure is to go a little far. The representative, Mr Ågot Valle, pointed out that there was a desire for more use of referendums. I just want to point out that some questions may be suitable for referendums, in other questions it is more difficult, because there should be a connection between power and responsibility, and in many questions it will be that it is not the majority that said no to, for example. local taxation, which must bear the cost of reducing the amount of money for example. care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e702	Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has made known the main points of view of the Center Party, but I would like to comment on some aspects of the debate. One of the issues addressed in the debate is the narrowing of the scope of policy action, both in relation to the market and in relation to international agreements and legal acts. It's an interesting question, which one might also wish would have been more problematic than what one does in today's setting. Where are the limits of what you're actually obliged to give up by decision-making authority, and what you might leave out of liability because it can be convenient? Or another way to say, can we stand here in a situation where you not only waive what you have to write off of power, but where the Storting deliberately rejects influence, either because the outsider can be used as a basis for unpopular decisions, or because a person refuses to take political responsibility? It is an important question that deserves a wide-ranging debate. The relationship between politics and the market has also been an important aspect of today's debate. An important part of that debate is the relationship between the state and the ownership it manages. I wish that one who could more differentiate between the types of state enterprises we're facing. I believe that the answer to what it means to manage the state's interests must be different depending on whether there are infrastructure companies, manufacturing companies or service companies. The maximum profit may not be the only interest which the State may place in its State ownership. The state is per year. Today, in fact, a more passive owner in many of his businesses than many private owners would have been, and there is a problem that deserves debate precisely in the relationship between politics and the market. Minority governments have also been up for debate today. Here it is easy to get into either the ditch or the ditch. There's no reason to glorify minority governments, but there's no reason to think it's reprehensible either. Both minority and majority governments are an accepted part of our governance. Both parts work, and both have their advantages and disadvantages. Minority governments can manage well and increase the influence of the Storting, but may also suffer from a lack of long-term sustainability. Multiplicity governments can provide more long-term policies – if they want to – but can also pass on the Storting and reduce the responsibility of all parties to come up with unifying solutions. Finally, a serious challenge is the relationship between state and local democracy. My claim is that if one does not soon establish a new understanding between local democracy and state – not about structure, but about framework, resources, tasks and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e715	Where we have come into the social debate, in the debate on governance, I would like to stress that there are no questions of majority or minority rule. The question is, what is the foundation of the government in Stortinget? If the government has a foundation in the Storting that makes it have a governing basis, yes, it could be a minority government. But then the point is that if this government is to be able to have decision-making, responsibility, there must be some instruments that allow the government to put power behind the demands, instead of allowing itself to be willingly accompanied by a majority in the Storting. That is what this debate must be about. Then you can't compare with what has happened in the past, because both the population, society and the Big City have changed. We have to meet this discussion about taking responsibility for their decisions within the framework we have. Then I think it's quite obvious, with the experience we've had with the three-four last governments, that you have to put in place a system that makes it possible to have the majority of the Great Britain behind you, and then the government will have the means if this majority breaks down. So let me say, because there's been little focus on this, that yes, I realize that you have to organize government and welfare production in a different way from what you did in previous times. But what's quite remarkable about the big news from the Government is that it doesn't affect the most important agencies we have in this society to make sure that the Big City's decisions are really put to work. Then I think about the Riksrevision, and then I think about the important institution that the Civil Ombudsman represents, both in order to follow the people's right to have it, and at the same time by being a complaint body that makes it possible to deal with matters where either the administration or others actually do not implement what has been the intentions of the legislator or the decision maker. In my view, in the future, we need to do just as it has been pointed out here, learn from what the Powers Investigation has made on proposals, try to put it into the current reality and then use this lesson to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e726	If local democracy, in the sense of representative democracy, is confused, then we must be willing to use new instruments. I said in my post that e.g. participating budgeting could be one instrument, referendum another. Mr. Svein Roald Hansen stated in his speech that referendum could not apply to all kinds of themes. I agree. It is not possible to have referendums that agree to lower taxes one day and more to school the other day. Nor is it possible to have referendums that are directly linked to human rights, because human rights are to be valued above most in society. Then the prime minister was about life and learning, as the majority in the committee agreed that the maximum amount of earmarked grants should be included in the framework. Then the test becomes if you're willing to do it when it comes to the problem. But the majority of the committee also says that it can only happen when what was to be financed is fully funded. I took one example in my post: the earmarked grants for the cultural schools were put in before the state had taken its share of responsibility. The result we see today is that many cultural schools are becoming more expensive. In other words, there is a difference in the right to such a basic offer as a cultural school is. An important part of the theme is diversity and inclusion. There is no doubt that the willingness to pursue a policy of distribution that gives everyone the right to education and work is important in this way, also because the development of languages and participation in the Norwegian community depends on it. Yesterday, in the radio program Sunday newspaper, there was an interview with some tough Norwegian-Pakistan girls who really take it seriously that education is a key to power in Norwegian society. In the diversity message, the government has said that the state must go ahead in including people with a minority background. Yes, then comes the big test – on the first occasion after this has been said, there is an opportunity to give a qualified representative of the immigrant population an important position. The first thing you do is give powerful and clear signals to the multicultural environment: you can search, but you can't reach. I find it very sad to see that one does not take responsibility seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e739	I have two more themes that I want to raise. One is youth and power, which has had its own discussion in connection with the Powers Investigation, which is the first investigation that really puts young people's participation in the various democratic forums in perspective. What is perhaps the best part of that investigation is that it probably takes the life of the 68s' own view of seas as the only active generation of young people. It shows that youth, including today's generation, is very politically active, but not active in the usual channels, and that youth also cares very much about things around them, but is not active in the political parties in the same way, or uses voting rights in the same way. It's a big challenge for us as political parties to take up the political commitment that young people are actually showing, to make it interesting and to show shorter ways from political commitment to political solutions. That's something that we, the parties, have to take over, because it's just us who can lift that commitment in the right way. The second issue I think should be discussed in depth is the media act. I'm probably not as negative as many people have been here from the pulpit, because I think the frightening perspectives of media unification we have on a global scale. I think it's scary that in people who don't have a high level of education, you can shop to the TV channel that you know has the position you already have. But when it comes to the Norwegian population, I'm not that negative. What I think is going to happen is that one will see a development in which people acquire information via channels other than the traditional national media. In the previous election, 70 pst went. the coverage of the election campaign in the national media on personal conflicts. People aren't so stupid that they choose games from such a kind of coverage. I think the parties will notice that people are going to get information via completely different channels, and are going to form opinions about which parties they support, via completely different channels. But it is also a challenge for the political parties to be open to the fact that such types of channels actually exist in the contacts between citizens and the individual parties. Finally, I would just like to make a small comment on cultural schools, which have been presented as the great example of the government ruling here, and that one should not release these local politicians. It wouldn't have been a single cultural school in this country if it hadn't been for local politicians. It's local politicians who have been the driving force in the construction of every cultural school, and when it comes to believing that we're going to be the great rescue to that offer, I'm sure, and have great confidence that the priorities that are now being done locally will lead to more children getting the offer. I think we're going to take over, and not think that we're the only ones sitting with the wit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e749	For us elected people, the power investigation should be not a munitions warehouse, but a mirror for critical self-test. What is hidden under the keyword ‘legalisation’ is an important, comprehensive problem complex, but it is essential, as the Prime Minister also stressed, to address it to the legislative assembly. Because if there is a widespread legalisation of conflicts of interest in today's Norway, it is in the case of a result of the way the Stortinget manages its position as legislator, and then we have to ask ourselves the question: Do we do it properly? And, above all, do we have mechanisms that evaluate whether the results of the laws of the Great Government are in the vicinity of what was the intention when the decisions were taken? The power of the media is also an important topic, and here I would like to focus a little on what has emerged in the debate. For even here, there is a cooperative between the elected and the media, and to the same extent, the light of criticism should be directed towards the way in which the elected people use the media and dance after the media's pipe. It is clear that when even bodies that define themselves as cultural radicals can appear as daily editions of «Women and Clothing» whenever one approaches the theme of politics, yes, then the sole responsibility of the competent body is not. It is also linked to the way politicians act, and not least to their appearance in public space. The media and the political system are sort of Siamese twins, and if we want to criticise the media, there must also be reason to criticize the elected representatives themselves. Finally, the theme of government and big business: I do not disagree with the rapporteur's emphasis on the political basis of the Government, and when you talk about majority governments, it must also be the big question, because majority government as an option in today's Norway is not something similar to the majority governments you had when one party had a majority in the Grand Hall alone. It is, of course, the scope of the political views and priorities that determine whether a majority government is a strong government or not. In particular, in the current situation, this concerns the way in which a government discharges the specific responsibilities of the King, namely foreign and security policy. There it is quite exciting to imagine how a majority government with widely different positions can become a strong government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e758	I quite agree with the rapporteur's description of the main conclusions of the power investigation, and I believe that the debate in relation to legalisation, and also in relation to the power of the market, has received too little attention here today. I think it would be sad if you were left standing with the conclusions that Mr. Carl I. Hagen made to the streets earlier today, especially in view of increasing market power, increasing legal activity, almost automatically helping citizens to gain more power. The other thing that was Carl I. Hagen's concern was that it was important that you could see the rulers in your eyes, and that the rulers had to be responsible for the decisions taken – which I fully agree with. I think it's an important challenge for all of us. But it's not like in the societies where the market is developing more power, and giving courts, lawyers and others more power, it's easier to see power in the eyes -- I kept saying -- rather on the contrary. It's just in those societies that it's hard to see who has power. It is also more difficult to put the power to responsibility. The lawyers owe the judges, the judges owe the legislators, and then you have the whole staff walking. So I'm very surprised that Carl I. Hagen was going to be the spokesperson for a society where the market and the legal process actually get a bigger place than what we're experiencing today. I also feel that these two sizes are largely related. The more we let the market go in terms of policy and political bodies, the more legalisation it becomes. When we look at how, for example, Norway’s drug policy has developed, where there has traditionally been quite strong political governance, both in relation to alcohol policy and drug policy, we see a trend that is not only due to the decisions of this magnification, but also an international flow, in which market players and those who earn money, alcohol capital, and others, are given greater power. This has also contributed to greater justice, by using the same actors' courts and legal instruments to assert their rights, whether it is the dismantling of monopolies or the building up of effective mechanisms that have helped to reduce, for example, the situation. people's drug consumption. From this point of view, I believe that the description given, both in the power investigation and also from the case-rapporteur, that a situation in which the market has gained more power is also linked to the creation of more justice. And it doesn't help us to see power more in our eyes, or put power more into responsibility, rather on the contrary. It's a development that should be broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e767	Let me first say that I agree with those who have said that the Storting should really be even more interested in this debate than it is, but at least it is the occasion for debate here now, and that is in itself good. This is going on in the future of the People's Government, and it should all be concerned about it. So a few words about the relationship between government and greatness: I think it's going to be totally wrong to try to hold a debate on minority and majority governments as a kind of theoretical topic. Minority or majority ownership cannot be assessed separately from the political situation in question. It is of little interest to establish a pro-contra-arguments for majority and minority governments, as Svein Roald Hansen called for, because it cannot be analysed or assessed without being in a concrete political context. There is no problem to see the benefits of a majority government, but if the political situation is such that there is no political basis for a majority government, it is less interesting that there are theoretical advantages to it. I would also like to say something of the same to the case rapporteur, when he says that the main point in and of itself is not minority or majority government, but that the government must have a basis in Stortinget. And then he wants a roll-out decision, where a large number of people will actively vote for this government to rule the country. I am not sure that it is necessarily better to force such an active majority through a vote than what has been the tradition in Norway, that is, a tacit acceptance of the government being formed. If one is to force such an active majority, it can be a majority that cracks so much that many in that majority will not feel particularly obliged to stand up to that government in any case. And that's not sure one should do that either. It's enough to go back to the government formations we've had, for example. once the Workers' Party has managed, and to a large extent has obtained support in many matters from the Centre Parties: it is not certain that, after a choice, the Centre Parties would feel comfortable standing up and voting for this Government. That's not sure that would have been right by us either. But we have shown responsibility and during the period set up and cooperated with this government, while the Right did so in some other matters. When the situation is that a government must have varying support in the Storting on a case-by-case basis, as the Cooperation Government has had to have, and proved that we have been given, it is not certain that it is better with an active majority decision/introduction decision. The same applies to the right of dissolution. Some believe that it would seem so very disciplinary if a government could threaten to print new choices. I'm not sure at all. The experience from other countries is not without a doubt good. On the contrary, there may be tendencies towards a gallup democracy, where a scoring to when it pays to print new choices. It may be that the absence of the right of dissolution has a disciplining effect on the political parties in Stortinget in showing responsibility and finding solutions across the party boundaries. But as far as the right of dissolution is concerned, there are different views, including between the government parties and partly within some parties, so these are more my own points of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e782	First, I want to focus on a comitology comment that may affect the way we handle the incorporation of international conventions in the future. It's said by a group committee that we want to be more aware of the premise of any incorporation. There's a big difference in the way to incorporate. Adapting Norwegian legislation to a text at a given time is one way, another is in retrospect passive and without any power to accept a convention that is changing. We see that the Supreme Court has been given a new workspace as a result of that. So there's something from Inge Wohnung that I didn't think should be undisputed, and it goes the way we read information. The result of the Danish power distribution is not as simple as Inge Wohnning produced it. On the contrary, it was said in the summary from there in relation to the EU, which regulates Danish law, that policies have been replaced by law. So it was said that the parties survive. Yes, they have not played out their role, but adapted and found a balance with fewer members and tasks. It was said that the Folketing has been strengthened in relation to government, administration and organisations, but is weak in relation to the EU and courts. That's what I think I belong to in a whole picture. So it's like the Stortinge treats this important matter in the most hectic time of the year here in the house. The President-in-Office of the Council has our case spokesmen. He has quite openly spent a lot of time. the celebration of 7 June. I would have liked to have said, as one of those who entered the committee that dealt with this matter at express speed, that the case-speaker has made this work very good, and provided a good basis for many common comments that can be read out of the setting. Then it's up to every single party afterwards to record some of these debates at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e791	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e794	It was almost to correct a misunderstanding. My small comparison with Denmark – in brackets – did not relate to the circumstances pointed to by the representative Meltveit Kleppa, but to the remarkable fact that electoral participation is significantly higher in Denmark than in Norway. It must mean that the Danish voters do not experience it in such a way that they have lost their potential political influence over the 33 years since Denmark became a member of the EU. Finally, there is one element that should be included in the discussion on the relationship between magnification and government. Parliamentaryism assumes, as a mechanism of power, that there is at all times a potential government option in the Storting, i.e. that the opposition at all times is able to come up with a credible alternative. If that's not the case, no formal mechanisms will help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e819	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e830	The earthquake and the subsequent flood wave that hit South Asia on Christmas Day 2004 are one of the most extensive natural disasters the world has seen in recent times. The disaster resulted in the loss of more than 220 000 lives, resulting in extensive damage with almost total destruction of technical and social infrastructure in the countries most severely affected. The river wave hit the countries of South and South East Asia particularly hard, but it also hit land on the east coast of Africa. Norway, too, was severely affected by the flood disaster. 79 Nordics have been identified as dead, and five people were still missing at the end of last month. This makes the river wave disaster one of the disasters that have claimed most Norwegian lives in recent times. Many of our immigrants have families and friends who lost their lives in countries hit by the disaster. A large number of Norwegians were in the affected areas, and over 4,000 persons arrived at Norwegian airports in the days following the disaster. The responsibility for the government's handling of the flood disaster lay with the government. The government has on several occasions, both in the big shot and in the hearings, regretted that many people in a desperate situation did not get the help they needed from the Norwegian authorities, especially in the first chaotic days. Among other things, the help to the survivors in the disaster-stricken areas and the information to relatives out and at home should have been much better. In addition, many were subjected to unnecessary burdens, whether they themselves or family and friends were wrongly listed in the authorities’ overviews of missing persons. On 14 January of this year, the Government appointed an independent selection to evaluate the management of the flood disaster by Norwegian authorities. The Committee delivered its report to the Minister of Justice on 20 April 2005. The evaluation committee was given a demanding task, especially in the light of the short deadline set for the work, but did a thorough and real job within the mandate given. The Committee noted in particular that the sample paid so much attention to hearing those affected by the accident and their experiences and that this has been at the centre of the work of the sample. The selection pointed to major weaknesses in the management of the flood disaster by the Norwegian authorities, particularly in the initial phase, and made important recommendations for improvement. The Committee considers that the evaluation and conclusions of the Reinås Committee are adequate for the management of the river-wave disaster by the authorities and have taken this into account in its work on the Great Britain Communication. This means that the criticism that the Reinås Committee has addressed the efforts of the authorities, and in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the first days after the disaster, is also shared by the Committee. The selection has found failure in a number of areas in the initial phase, particularly in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – this was due to a lack of warning, a lack of a comprehensive picture that could serve as a basis for cross-ministerial intervention, a lack of telephone capacity, staffing systems, registration systems and information. There was a lack of staff management, organisation and management follow-up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there were no contingency plans in this department to deal with such a situation, despite the fact that this was imposed. In short, there was a lot of error in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Despite this, considerable efforts were made by individual staff in the EEAS, and this effort is valued by the Committee. In the case of other departments involved in crisis management, the evaluation is largely characterised by the fact that the job was done in a proper way. But it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that was most central in the phase where it failed the most. I will briefly discuss some of the findings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs culture in the evaluation report. The Reinås Committee pointed out that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is a widespread attitude that organisational relationships prevented employees from doing their best in dealing with the crisis in question, and that fear of reactions may have prevented the choice of the best solutions in the field. I won't go far into this. It's the government that determines its organization, but we have to be sure it's working. The Committee therefore assumes that the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following up this issue. The Committee has made it clear that all departments, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must be organised in such a way as to ensure that all strategic and operational functions are carried out – and that the entire organisation provides its best, including in emergency situations. The Committee emphasises the designation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the hearing of the failure of the department’s ability to manage personnel, particularly at the level of the intermediary. The Committee has registered that measures are now being implemented to strengthen this level and assumes that this will improve the ability of employees to provide their best. In the communication we are discussing today, the government has explained how the recommendations of the sample will be followed up, but first a little about the basic principles of crisis management: The principles of crisis management are affected in connection with Stortingen's treatment of both St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 and by St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004 and the associated settings. There is little in this which particularly affects major events abroad. Of course, most of it is about national crisis management. One of the principles of the Evaluation Committee was that it is important to make use of the same resources available for national disasters, including in the rest of the world. It is also agreed that the liability principle should be established in the future. In short, those in charge of a social area in a normal situation should also have it in a crisis situation. This is essential because it means that it is the general structures that need to be reinforced and not replaced by the establishment of parallel crisis management structures that do not have a separate place in a normal situation. If the mobile phone network strikes, it is of course those who do this daily, who are the closest to getting it back in a crisis situation. This principle can and should be applied in most contexts, but there is a special need in situations that are so large and complex that they cannot be solved by – let's call it – one subject area alone. There is a greater need for strategic and operational interaction between several actors. It's challenging, as this disaster showed us. It is therefore essential that we are sure that this works in such a way that it is the best resources we have, that it is those who are most suitable to carry out a job, which is actually also used when a major crisis occurs – and that the overall responsibility of course must be taken into account to ensure this. This is one of the reasons why a majority at Stortinget has for a while been concerned that a central crisis management unit should be established. In order to strengthen the ability to assist Norwegian citizens abroad in crisis situations, the Government has proposed: strengthening foreign station preparedness; strengthening the preparedness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs both through a strategic and operational management establishment; transferring the coordination responsibility to the Ministry of Justice in specific situations of a comprehensive and complex nature; In order to strengthen the overall crisis management capacity of the departments, the Government has proposed: strengthen crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government Crisis Council and clarify the responsibility for crisis management in the Ministry of leadership, which is the ministry most affected by the crisis-creating new crisis support unit to contribute support functions to the Ministry of leadership and the Board of Government crisis management These are comprehensive measures. There is a broad consensus on all measures, except that the Progress Party and the Central Party want the leadership of the Government Crisis Council to remain permanently under the Prime Minister's office, while the majority believe that the crisis Council should be chaired by the department closest to the crisis, which is to be the leading department. Natural events and environmental disasters are examples of risks that can affect both nationally and internationally. Environmental changes, including anthropogenic climate change, increase the risk of different kinds of natural disasters. Natural disasters could always occur, but anthropogenic climate change contributes to more unpredictable weather conditions and more extreme weather types. Such events could increasingly affect Norwegian citizens both in Norway and abroad. The desire for Norwegian citizens is great, and it is increasing. In the notification, the relationship with which we can have expectations to Norwegian authorities when we are travelling is thoroughly affected. It is fundamental international law that this is the country we are visiting, that keeps law and justice in order, and that is also responsible for crisis preparedness and management. It makes sense, just as we do not want other countries' authorities to deal with crises in Norway when they occur with us, if we do not ask for assistance. It is also essential that crisis management takes place as close as possible to the crisis. During the flood disaster in South Asia, the immediate efforts of local populations, local authorities and others were in the areas just after the river waves, which were crucial for the recovery of life. We are very grateful for that. So international law forms some bounds that we have to deal with. As a traveler, we have a responsibility to deal with the standards and systems that exist where we travel, make assessments of what vaccines we should take before we travel, and whether travel insurance covers if anything happens. So we have a self-reliance to weigh the risk we want to take when we're going, while at the same time being able to be sure that Norwegian authorities are stretching as far as possible to help Norwegian citizens who end up in a crisis situation. In order to contribute to this, emergency plans will now be reviewed and updated at individual foreign stations. It has to be practiced, too. In addition, the caller unit is established to be useful if needs arise. Travel patterns of Norwegian citizens are changing and evolving. No one wants a registration obligation for those who want to leave the country for shorter periods. Nevertheless, it is important to strengthen knowledge of travel patterns through cooperation with all the actors who know about this. The proportion of Norwegian citizens visiting a country must be one of the criteria for which we choose to have foreign stations. This case is dealt with at a record speed in Stortinget – or at least quickly. It has two advantages. Firstly, we will have improved crisis management before too long, and secondly, we will receive comprehensive treatment of both the course of events and the related measures. There has been good cooperation in the Committee on this matter. Information hearings have also been carried out on short notice, and the minutes are attached to the case. Finally, many people have contributed to getting an overview of the authorities’ response to the disaster and have contributed constructive proposals for action, despite the fact that many have suffered great losses and have been in great pain after the second Christmas day. I would like to thank you for your efforts, which have been of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e910	As Chairman of the Committee, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee in general and the rapporteur in particular for very good work, the necessary willingness to cooperate and for flexibility. It has made it possible for the Committee to have the power to deal with a difficult matter in a thorough manner in a very short time. In spite of the time pressure, the committee has gone deep, taken proper action on the issues and drew the lines from the position on social security and civil-military cooperation that was discussed on 30 November last year. I would also like to thank those who put up for consultation at short notice, in part, until unbridled times. So it's important for me to stress that St.meld. No 37 deals with a tragic accident, a natural disaster with very many deaths. We almost don't know the extent of this. It includes Norwegian citizens. This is the greatest disaster in recent times. In respect of the deceased and their relatives, the Committee has put forward a worthy consideration. This does not mean that the committee is vague or does not take a stand. On the contrary, we are clear and concrete in our description of and our conclusion on what went wrong. But the most important thing is to learn from the shortcomings in the Norwegian crisis response, to contribute to actions that make us unforeseeable, and that we have a structure and a practical, strategic and operational management that ensures that there is no time to play when we are hit by deliberate or unintentional disasters. Let me add that, as far as possible, we have also sought consensus, but on some structural measures we must nevertheless respect that there are different positions. The Committee takes into account, as the rapporteur also said, the position of the Reinås Committee on the day and week after 26 December 2004. The Committee finds the evaluation and conclusions of the sample comprehensive in terms of the management of the river disaster in South Asia by the authorities. The disaster revealed serious deficiencies in Norwegian preparedness for crisis abroad. It is serious that there were no relevant emergency plans in the U.D. Of course, no one could predict the event in question, but the Committee stresses that crisis preparedness is precisely based on planning for the unforeseeable. It is becoming increasingly important in a globalised, modern and technological society. Everything from climate change via population migration and the flow of refugees to terrorist groups and terrorist attacks underlines that we are facing a complex risk picture that is unpredictable. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges. The Committee considers that the flood disaster showed that Norway had neither a structure nor a procedure to deal with a crisis of this format. There is also a question of whether there is a structure or apparatus to deal with crises of a significantly smaller format. This is about us having a strategic and operational management that can pinch your fingers and say, well, that's how we do it, you do it, this department is responsible. I'm aware that during a social security exercise, there was a dispute between five different state agencies about who was responsible. Of course, we can't have it that way. We can't if we get a suicide bomb on Karl Johan on May 17th. Then it must be clear who is in charge, how health businesses should act, what role the health of the defence should play – and also: How many places for third-degree incineration do Norwegian hospitals actually have? What agreements exist with the health services and the defence of our neighbouring countries? What agreements do we have with NATO on crisis management? And what about EU crisis management? It is important that the overall resources of society are invested in the work of social security. It is important to underline the principle of responsibility, as has been said here in the past. But it is equally important to have crisis management. It is important to underline what the Committee said in Innst. S. No 49 from last year when we treated St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004: ‘... that crisis situations are inherently time-critical in terms of saving human lives and avoiding material damage’. Therefore, the Stortinget Government asked the question of a central crisis management unit. The Government proposes to set up a Government Emergency Council in addition to a crisis support unit in the Ministry of Justice. The Committee considers this to be a proper step, but shares the responsibility. The Labour Party believes that the Stortinget does not interfere with the department in which the various units are to be set up or in which ministerial council is to run the crisis council. It will at any time be up to the Government to decide. However, it is now the case that the Government, the Prime Minister's office and the Prime Minister have overall responsibility in acute crises and must intervene when necessary. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are willing to give the proposed crisis management structure a chance. But we reserve the right to strengthen or centralize it if it does not prove to work, for example. through exercises. In addition, we take note of the measures proposed to improve the preparedness of the EEAS, including: the proposal for outsourcing units in the U.D. which shall be operational for five hours. It seems positive. In this regard, I would like to point out, not least in the light of this morning's call for Radio Day, that the Committee stresses the need for frequent exercises as an important part of preventive safety work. Scenario and disaster exercises must take place at all levels and across levels. It includes exercises involving the departments and their preparedness for crisis. Exercises may make the operational resources available and their availability visible. Exercises will also make visible the nature of coordination, management and cooperation. I would essentially encourage the Government to look at that look at the news today. If it is the case that the Fire Service in Oslo and Larvik trains with the 330 Quadron of Defence in the case of a fire on board ships, and this does not happen anywhere on the west coast, then it is something with the principle of responsibility that does not work. There must then be someone who controls us to have exercises, and it is probably the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness that should have that initiative, and so should they. Finally, some brief comments about the message's perhaps most interesting, exciting and challenging chapter: Nordics on the travel foot. It is clear that this is natural, but perhaps what we are least aware of: the emergency preparedness and management of the Norwegian authorities abroad must be based on the rules and conditions of international law. We must respect the laws of the host country within the framework of international law. The host Member State shall have the sole right to exercise police and other enforcement powers in its territory. That is to say, clear frameworks and limitations for the exercise of public powers by Norwegian authorities in the territory of another country. Thailand was exemplary in that way. But what if a fire occurs in a cruise ship outside Haiti — to quote the Minister of Justice's example from the hearing, a very good example — with dozens of Northmen on board and perhaps worse, or if Norwegian relief workers are exposed to floods in North Korea? There's what's known as flood for a few years. Or – do we know what will happen to Norwegian students in China in a crisis situation? The examples are very many, and it's just the imagination that limits what scenarios we can imagine. My conclusion on this post is that we need to have strategic management. We need operational management. We need appropriate resources, and we need operational resources. Of course, we must have a principle of responsibility. At the same time, as long as we are talking about the Nordics abroad and a mobile, globalised society, it is important that international crisis preparedness also belongs to diplomacy. It belongs to the international committed organisations and to international committed cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e956	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation. We took it as our starting point that the situation and the magnitude and seriousness of the accident led it to be treated with dignity within the WCC. It is essentially achieved. I also want to say thank you to the Government, who, for example, quickly set down a sample to evaluate the disaster that had occurred, and for the attitude that the members of the Government have shown in meeting the criticism that has undeniably been raised. I still want to say two things. One concerns the attitude of employees. In its setting, the Committee says: ‘In this context, the Committee will point out that the Reinås Committee has pointed out that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is a widespread attitude that organisational conditions prevent employees from doing their best to deal with the crisis in question.’ This ends up with a unanimous committee. And to put it this way: at least it's not too vague in relation to the conclusions that stand in the position of the Reinås Committee. Therefore, when the committee will repeat the criticism later in the vote, the government parties will leave that comment and will now allow themselves to quote from the main conclusion of the committee, from the pulpit: ‘Both individual employees and many volunteers made a very great effort. All of these deserve a great deal of thanks. The evaluations and conclusions of the report do not in any way imply a downsizing of the individual’s efforts.» I think the employees of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other departments are going to take this main conclusion on board, and I want to join in what is said in the main conclusion: they all deserve a great deal of thanks. As this big message says, initially, the earthquake and the subsequent flood wave that hit South Asia on Christmas Day 2004 was one of the most extensive natural disasters the world has experienced in recent times. The disaster resulted in the loss of more than 220,000 lives and resulted in extensive destruction with almost total destruction of technical and social infrastructure in the most severely affected areas. The river wave hit the countries of South and South East Asia particularly hard, but it also hit land on the east coast of Africa. Indonesia was the country that was hardest hit by this disaster. In particular, the already warring Aceh province was hit hard. The same was true of several areas affected by civil war in Sri Lanka. Nordic travel patterns have changed significantly in recent decades. The main reason for this is the increasing globalisation of the economy, culture, etc. Globalisation gives us many opportunities, but it also presents new challenges. It is therefore very important to develop a principle that says that we must use the same resources available for national and natural disasters and that they must also be available for use abroad. Once again, we see that the boundary between the national and international systems is being cleared. Therefore, it will be of great importance to develop policy governance instruments that help to address such enormous challenges in a better way than was achieved in the days after the second Christmas day. Let me at the same time add, as Marit Nybakk said in his post, that well we can imagine a crisis on 17 May at Karl Johan's Gate. But we also need to remember that what we are dealing with now is crises abroad, and that's where the committee says: ‘The Committee has taken note of this and supports the principle that all assistance to the Nordics abroad must respect the laws of the host country within the framework of international law.’;» Thus, it is not necessarily certain that all the resources available if the worst happens in Norway can be used if similar accidents occur abroad. As a result of the increasing globalisation, we also see that it has become increasingly common for the Nordics to travel to a geographically remote country to spend their holidays there. The disaster that struck the second Christmas day led to the killing of 79 Norwegians, and five people are still missing. The disaster is the biggest single incident that has ever hit the North in peacetime abroad. Therefore, due to the increasing globalisation and the changing pattern of Nordic travel, Norwegian authorities should develop a crisis response that is better able to deal with similar events in a wide range of areas in the future. I would also like to thank my fellow colleagues in the Committee, as the right-wing fraction leader in the Swedish Defence Committee, for having managed to arrive at a position that I believe is adequate for the challenges we face in the time ahead. We are of course satisfied that a sample was set up to evaluate the management of the river disaster in South Asia by the Norwegian authorities. In addition, the sample was to monitor the course of events and assess the implementation of the crisis management activities of the authorities and others, both centrally, locally and in the river basin areas. The committee was also tasked with assessing other aspects of crisis management and could propose measures for which the evaluation shows that there is a need. The Committee also stresses in its position that it will stress the importance of this sample being set up and that it considers it important both to show the survivors and the related respect and to draw lessons from the fact that the government has subsequently complained that the assistance given was not good enough. The Committee also states in its position that the flood disaster showed that Norway had neither a structure nor an apparatus to deal with crises of this magnitude. Against this background, I think it is important to define social security as the capacity of state authorities to ensure key societal functions. The open, technological and global society has put greater emphasis on human security and the protection of human rights and security. In this context, I would also like to refer to a previous setting, namely Innst. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, in which the following statements are made in a striking way: ‘The Committees point out that modern society is also a vulnerable society, where threats to people’s security are both accidental and deliberate.’ Therefore, it is also of great importance that the public have confidence in the authorities’ ability to deal with a crisis that arises and the availability of the necessary preparedness. Information on such preparedness for communication in the event of a crisis is therefore of great importance. It is a unanimous committee that says that this failed during the flood disaster, not least when it came to information and uncertainty about how many Northers were missing after the disaster. The Committee also states in its position that further efforts should be made to improve crisis information plans and that preparedness should be improved at many levels, from preparedness to providing assistance to directly affected persons in a disaster area to the information provided to the public in the event of major crises. It is therefore of great importance to the success of crisis management that everyone knows the responsibilities and current procedures in the event of a crisis, that all equipment be maintained and that he is aware of its use and that exercises in crisis management, supervision and preparedness are actually carried out. Against such a background, I am pleased that the Communication mentions that future strategic crisis management should be based on three main elements: enhanced crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government’s crisis management committee and clarification of the responsibilities for crisis management in the Ministry of leadership and the establishment of a new crisis support unit to assist in the support functions of the Ministry of leadership and the Government’s crisis management board in their crisis management reorganisation of information preparedness; In this context, I would like to stress – as in the committee setting – that ‘general organisational relationships may have a major impact on the ability of an enterprise to deal with a crisis’. I therefore take note of what the Reinås Committee writes, that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there is a widespread attitude that organisational relationships prevented employees from doing their best to deal with the crisis. Just like the rest of the committee, I'm going to assume that the Department of Foreign Affairs' management is following up this issue. I would also like to stress that all departments, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must be organised in such a way as to ensure that all strategic and operational functions are performed, and that the entire organisation provides its best, including in crisis situations. It is therefore of great importance that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs review its internal working conditions and that the working environment be maintained in such a way as to ensure professional development in the ministry. A clearer allocation of responsibilities and responsibilities will clarify and improve the response factors in disaster response as well as in daily international service. It is also important to stress from the Right and Christian People's Party that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is an organisation that is constantly changing and that has started to review all points of improvement after the flood disaster. This includes, inter alia: already carried out a work environment study in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which will be repeated annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1028	The earthquake and flood disaster that hit South Asia on Christmas Day 2004 clearly showed that in the context of a disaster outside the country’s borders, the Norwegian authorities did not control the situation. In fact, it was one of the most extensive disasters that have hit us in recent times, but even in a much smaller accident where the Norwegian authorities had to take responsibility, the response of the authorities would probably not have been sufficient. I believe that this is the crumbling criticism of the Reinås Committee. The responsibility for the government's handling of the flood disaster lay with the government. The help for the survivors and the information for the relatives should have been much better. In addition, unnecessary and incorrect overviews of missing persons imposed many unnecessary loads. The main purpose of this Communication shall be to explain the measures that the Government will propose to be better equipped to deal with different crisis situations in the future. Let's hope we've learned from this. Let's hope that the announced actions for improvement The government through this message has pointed out will be improvements. The Government correctly points to the measures described in St.melding. No 17 for 2001-2002, in St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004 and in St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005. But this is not enough. The role of the defence has received little mention. The defense could probably in this situation have provided nothing more than what was natural: sanitation and transport. The sanity worked fine, based on what I understood. But the transport showed obvious weaknesses due to the nature of the material, which the Progress Party has shown and explained for several years. One of the two Hercules transport planes collapsed as known along the way. It did not come as a big surprise, but for that reason it is not less tragic and could have tragic consequences in a given situation. I would like to point out here the innumerable proposal of the Advance Party to go to the purchase of new transport aircraft, the proposal we have never received from anyone else. The nominee evaluation committee covers many themes and many themes to change in the event of a new disaster. At the same time, there is a crushing criticism of the government's behaviour, especially that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The U.D. lacks basic understanding of preparedness in the opinion of the sample.’ This is justified, inter alia, by: with lack of telephone capacity, manning systems, system of registration, management follow-up, information, etc. Let me immediately point out that the sample praises the individual and the many volunteers, who made a very great effort. All of these deserve a big thank-you. The assessment and conclusions of the report do not in any way imply a de-estimation of the individual’s efforts. It was the systems and the responsible authorities that failed. The committee also asks why the Prime Minister's office did not at an early stage take the initiative to transfer parts of the work on the disaster from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to other departments and departments. This shows, then, that the Prime Minister's office had no clear plans. If, in the opinion of the Progress Party, there is somewhere the plans and the overview must be present, it is at the Prime Minister's office. This considers the Progress Party to be fundamentally important. In our opinion, this has not been taken over by the Prime Minister. Rather on the contrary, in our opinion, he will discharge himself of responsibility by allocating responsibilities to the various departments. He confirmed that at the last week of the hearings in connection with the notification. In my opinion, it is clear that a division of responsibilities in a given situation is not working. This whole tragedy, in my opinion, shows this. That is why the Progress Party and the Central Party want to make it clear that the responsibility for a crisis situation must lie with the Prime Minister's office. This does not want the Government and the Prime Minister. I don't understand why. I see this as a powdering of responsibility. The government wants to put in place a system in which the leadership responsibility of the crisis council will vary according to the type of crisis involved. This is demonstrated by the vision of the Progress Party and the Centre Party as a poorly suitable system. A shifting leadership does not place responsibility well enough. The responsibility must lie with the Prime Minister's office. In this way, the Council is guaranteed one management, which can react quickly no matter what kind of disaster it is. The fishing opportunities should be drawn from the various departments concerned in order to ensure professional competence and resources. The government's proposal for shared management could create conflicts of interest between departments. We therefore believe that it is important to ensure a clear division of responsibilities managed by the Prime Minister's office and not to divide responsibility between several different departments. It may be important here to point out that the Vulnerability Committee, led by former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, has just proposed that responsibility for crisis preparedness should be brought together in one place. The most natural thing is then the Prime Minister's office. Furthermore, the Progress Party notes with concern that this notification was dealt with over such a short period of time. It didn't deserve that. It is therefore important for the Progress Party to stress that we made proposals in the Defence Committee to postpone the examination of parts of the Communication for the autumn 2005. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party and the Centre Party, which is included in the vote and which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring together the leadership of the Council of Crisis under the Office of the Prime Minister.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1064	The representative Per Ove Wideth has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1067	First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for a good and constructive cooperation. There was a proper handling of the case, because the committee has worked a lot on preparedness and crisis management during this period and thus had a good basis to build on. The flood disaster in Asia on Christmas Day confirmed that the most unimaginable can happen. The earthquake and the tidal wave that hit South Asia and the east coast of Africa had a very dramatic and tragic outcome. Over 220,000 people lost their lives. The destruction of the most severely affected areas is enormous. 79 Nordics have been identified as dead, and five are still missing. Many came home with physical and mental injuries. Many more are affected by the loss of relatives or friends. It's an incredible tragedy for those who've been hit. That's something we have to carry with us and remember. This makes the debate on this communication special, and we should contribute to making it special. We must first of all show respect for the victims and their relatives by holding a dignified tone throughout the whole process of the matter. We all have a common goal. It is creating the best possible system for dealing with future crisis situations. We need to learn from the experience we have now gained, so that we can make improvements and be prepared to do everything in our power to minimize the damage of a new disaster. The disaster in South Asia revealed shortcomings in Norwegian preparedness in relation to serious incidents in which many Nordics abroad need assistance at the same time and at the same time. The government already appointed a sample shortly after the disaster to evaluate the management of the flood disaster by Norwegian authorities. The term of office, composition and time limit for the work of the Committee were discussed in advance with the parliamentary leaders of the Grand Duchy. I have understood that the parliamentary leaders were concerned that the communication could be made so quickly that it could be dealt with in the Stortinge before the holiday, which we have actually managed to implement in a – at my discretion – a good way. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has taken this so seriously. We must all learn from our experiences. It also applies to the Norwegian authorities. As the rapporteur for the two issues of social security and preparedness dealt with by the Storting during this period, I would like to stress that Norway has a strong awareness of social security and that we have developed an apparatus for crisis management and preparedness. However, much can – and must – be improved. The size gave its setting to St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004 on social security and civil-military cooperation, i.e. exactly one month before the earthquake in South Asia. In that setting there were some measures that had not been time to implement in the few weeks. The flood disaster showed that Norway did not have structures or procedures at that time to deal with a crisis of this format. The Reinås Committee also expresses doubts as to whether there was a structure or apparatus to deal with crises of much smaller size. The Reinås Committee is limited to mentioning Norwegian crisis management abroad, and we must remember that. After attending the deliberations of the two social security messages presented by the Government this period, we must be so humble and just admit that none of us were prepared for a disaster of such a format abroad. None of us directed the search light to the rest of the world. We didn't think in detail how to face such a disaster. We just have to admit that we have concentrated mainly on the emergency response system in Norwegian territory. And there's a big difference between the framework conditions under which we work on our own territory and the framework conditions under which we work on the territory of other countries. On the basis of legal, geographical or practical circumstances, it will not be possible for Norwegian authorities to guarantee all kinds of assistance in the event of any foreign crisis. We have to try to imagine what opportunities the Norwegian authorities have to intervene and help Norwegian citizens in the territory of other countries. We don't have to go to extremes like North Korea or China. Well so illustrative can be e.g. The United States is in this context. The communication sets out in detail the framework conditions to which we must deal, and in the vote the rapporteur has dealt with this in a very good way. I would also like to stress that this also applies in cases where outbreaks of infectious diseases with the extent of pandemic/epidemic threaten Norwegian citizens abroad. The Committee points out in the preamble that the national emergency response system must be able to assist citizens exposed to infection abroad. Yes, the emergency response system must also be planned for such scenarios. However, it is important to stress also here — within the international, geographical and practical possibilities available. It is important that we do not create greater expectations for the authorities of Norwegian citizens who travel abroad than we actually have the opportunity to do. We must not let it attach itself to an impression that can create a wide gap between expectations and the real possibilities that the Norwegian authorities have. Exercises are of great importance for how we deal with crisis situations. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that, at the hearing last Monday, the Minister of Justice stated that, just as the Ministry of Justice almost has a detailed criminal statistics every year, it should be equally natural for it to be reported on different types of exercises and how this is done, as part of the annual notification to the Stortinget, for example. by means of the budget proposal. The Christian People's Party supports and meets this initiative of the Council of State. The Christian People's Party is engaged in the voluntary sector. I would therefore also like to emphasise in this context the importance of good cooperation between the authorities and voluntary organisations. Volunteers have so much to contribute, and the Christian People's Party believes that they need to be involved to an even greater extent than today in crisis preparedness and management. We are pleased that there is greater cooperation in Norway and in foreign stations, and we support the proposal to include a representative of non-governmental organisations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in cases where appropriate. In conclusion, I would like to point out the very successful use of defence resources during the flood disaster in South Asia. The defence has large operational resources that are available for use even in difficult, crisis-like events in peace. A large part of these were used in January, and the defense made an effort that there has been far too little public attention around. But I have received many messages from individuals who have asked for more information. I would therefore like to mention some of the capacities supported by the defence, as the Minister of Defence did in the hearing – just to illustrate that the overall defence concept should be more than a national concept today. The defence had a total of 120 persons from the defence sector directly involved in the crisis work, as well as a significant number of persons involved from the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Staff and the Joint Operational Headquarters and other bodies. A forward coordination/preparation team was sent to the site of the damage, and the team was led by one of the defense crisis psychiatrists. The defense also backed up on the patient evacuation by the fact that two aircraft were hired by the Defense and reintroduced to ambulance aircraft using the model of the emergency contracts that the Defense has to bring home injured personnel from traditional military international operations. So this model proved to be very relevant to this particular situation. The defense's sanitation was on the plane, and there were a total of 35 officers and eight protective crews involved in the relief work. On board were also the Armed Forces Field Priests, who had an important task on board the flights, not least in supporting relatives and injured. The Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO/TRANS) at Gardermoen also played an important role here, based on their experience of coordinating transport in and out of operational areas. They made significant efforts to coordinate and facilitate the transport that was needed. In addition, the Defense Hercules aircraft had a mission to support the Red Cross in an air bridge between Singapore and Banda Aceh, and a total of 43 Air Force personnel comprised the four pilot crews and the support staff on board the two transport aircraft. The defense was supported by six dentists who supported Kripos in their difficult identification work. Similarly, it was also with a specialist psychologist from the Sanitation of Defence. This illustrates in a good way that the capabilities of the Defence and, of course, which have been acquired primarily for use in security crises have proved to be of considerable relevance to this type of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1126	The flood disaster on the second Christmas day last year touched us all, and it will continue to impress many people for a long time to come. Many have had a great sorrow to wear, and there are created wounds that will take a long time to heal. The disaster revealed many major shortcomings in our preparedness for the events that take place beyond our own borders, and where many people will need help and assistance. Therefore, it is also important that a person has spent months after the disaster to go into the management of the flood disaster, that the authorities have been willing to learn from what has happened, and that the Government has complained that the help and information given was not good enough. The evaluation committee’s report and the Government’s notification provide a good basis for the establishment of a better emergency response system. The aim, as for social security in general, must be to safeguard the security and rights of citizens, whether events at home or abroad. The fact that the Committee has gathered so much of the recommendations today also gives a clear and clear signal of what one expects in terms of the follow-up. There are three aspects in particular where it has been easy to see that something has to be done. First of all, it is the information one must be able to expect, both for those affected, and externally, for society, in the context of such an event. This also applies to the apparatus and its preparedness to expect the responsible authorities to be in such a situation and to the place of responsibility, so that a person does not lose time in discussions on responsibilities between different bodies. With regard to paragraph 1, one has to acknowledge that this has failed during the crisis, especially during the first few days. If it is to be preventable, a tightening and improvement at all stages is required. It assumes that all leaders are aware of their responsibilities and know the procedures to be applied in the event of crises and that it is actually being practised in the situations that may arise. With regard to the apparatus and the preparedness of the responsible authorities, there has been some strong criticism of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after the disaster. It's been necessary. Organisational conditions and structure within a department shall not, as a matter of fact, prevent assistance in this type of situation. Therefore, it is also serious when precisely that was pointed out by the Reinås Committee as one of the reasons for the lack of follow-up. It must be assumed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is following up this issue and is carefully reviewing its own structure so that it can operate in this type of situation. There is not least a better contact between the foreign stations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One must also point out that a problem, in addition to the lack of operational and strategic management, was the time aspect. A virtually absent communication in the initial phase undoubtedly contributed to a missing of important information. The Government proposes in the message that a Board of Governors should be set up. The centre party agrees. We experience that as a right move to ensure good management in crisis situations. However, the centre party may not accept a proposal for the management of such a crisis board to be run between different departments. We believe that when a crisis occurs, there will be too much demands for clarification of responsibilities. It can also create conflicts of interest, and it can create a vulnerable decision-making structure. It is worth remembering that it was just the ability of rapid mobilization that failed during the flood disaster. The best possible ability to respond quickly is obtained in the opinion of the Centre Party by placing management responsibilities with one body. The Central Party will therefore be in favour of a crisis council with the same departments as the Government proposes, but with clear management responsibilities placed in the Prime Minister's office. We experience it as the only natural thing. The location of management responsibilities does not, of course, change the fact that each department has to be responsible for its areas, for plans, for knowledge and for operational capacity related to preparedness when it comes to the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1150	The earthquake and the subsequent flood wave that hit South Asia on Christmas Day 2004 are one of the most extensive natural disasters the world has experienced in recent times. Norway, too, was severely affected by the flood disaster. On Friday I was informed that another Norwegian citizen has been identified as having died. 80 Nordics have now been identified as dead, and four people are still missing. International cooperation on identification, involving New Kripos personnel, is still ongoing. Many of our immigrants have families and friends who lost their lives in countries hit by the disaster. A large number of Norwegians were in the affected areas, and over 4,000 persons arrived at Norwegian airports in the days following the disaster. The responsibility for the government's handling of the flood disaster lay with the government. The government has regretted that many people in a desperate situation did not get the help they needed from the Norwegian authorities. In order to help draw lessons from experience and to speed up the improvements, the Government appointed an independent sample on 14 January 2005 to evaluate the management of the flood disaster by Norwegian authorities. I received the sample report on 20 April 2005. The selection has pointed to weaknesses in the management of the river disaster by Norwegian authorities and made important recommendations for improvement. The government wants to strengthen its ability to help Norwegian citizens in a crisis situation abroad. Nordics are increasingly travelling abroad as tourists, as students, in businesses and as participants in various international missions. We have to be prepared for the unlikely even in the rest of the world. At the same time, it is important to stress that due to legal, geographical or practical circumstances it will not be possible for Norwegian authorities to guarantee all kinds of assistance in the event of a foreign crisis. In order to strengthen the ability to assist Norwegian citizens abroad in crisis situations, the Government will strengthen emergency preparedness at foreign stations and establish emergency response units that will be able to leave in five hours to support foreign stations. A major foreign crisis affecting many Norwegian citizens and interests will, in experience, also require immediate action in Norway. In specific situations of a comprehensive and complex nature, the responsibility for coordinating and managing crisis management could be transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Justice. It must be prepared and planned by my department. It aims to plan for response groups such as: may perform tasks such as assistance to the competent authorities, assistance for damage, home transport and information management, under the direction of the police. Scenarios for complex situations abroad will be the basis for cooperation between the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the Police Directorate and the Central Rescue Centres, in cooperation with the Defence Directorate, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health and representatives of voluntary organisations, to examine proposals for operational planning and preparedness for different complex situations abroad. Crisis management plans abroad must be based on the systems and capacities available for national crisis management. Any disaster that leads to the loss of human life or damage to persons will involve relatives. Experience from the support groups is needed in a more systematic way than has so far been the case, and the Government has also shown in the large-scale communication presented how this will be followed up. The Ministry of Justice, as pointed out by the Committee, will pay particular attention to the participation of departments, departments and intervention personnel in exercises. Initiatives have also been taken to increase supervisory activity against ministries, both in frequency and depth, in terms of safety and preparedness work. In order to strengthen the overall crisis management capacity of the departments, the Government will step up crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government’s crisis management board, clarify and clarify the responsibility for crisis management in the Ministry of leadership — that is, the department most affected by the crisis — and establish a new crisis support unit in its own crisis management facilities in relation to the government quarter. The unit will be added to the Ministry of Justice. The crisis support unit shall be able to assist the Ministry of Management with ongoing advice, the preparation of situation reports and the processing of information. Work on setting up a crisis support unit will begin immediately. I aim for a preliminary setup by the end of the year. With the proposed approach, which has been endorsed by the Committee, we will be better prepared for the crisis in line with the key principles of national preparedness for crisis. Let me end by stressing that to be mentally prepared for the unexpected, it is very important, as also several speakers have been about, to think about different scenarios. I have underlined this in my article. Some examples are mentioned here, but we can imagine a number of events – for example. related to Norwegian tourists being hit at hotels abroad and on cruise ships abroad. Let me show you that some such events will actually be the theme of the great civil-military preparedness exercise we want in the northern regions, Barents Rescue, in September this year. In this way, we are doing our best to learn from the experience of this great disaster, which the Committee has carefully summarized and presented in its attitude here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1182	After major crises and disasters in which many perish, many are left to lose their loved ones. The worry and the wallpaper are in themselves difficult. Many also experience bureaucratic obstacles in the post-catastrophe period. Let me stress that the Committee endorses the measures taken by the Government and also mentioned by the Council of State: to assist stakeholders and relatives, and in this respect he referred to the revised national budget. There are now several associations for relatives following different crises and disasters. We therefore ask the Government to assess financial support for such support groups, depending on the situation. We also had at the hearing the Red Cross, which today houses such associations. I would like to ask whether the Council of State and the Government are considering how the support groups can get the best possible assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1191	First, regardless of this matter, I would like to say that I think relatives have often been a neglected group in our country, not just in terms of this disaster. It can be domestic, both in terms of health care and in terms of major and dramatic events related to everyday life, including: in the field of justice. What the representative is asking is whether the experiences of relatives are being listened to. The answer is yes. It has been shown that both in the big news and in the Committee's position, among other things. the initiative taken by the Ministry of Health and the manner in which the Ministry of Health worked when they were the Ministry of Management in this matter. The mentality that was then expressed in this cooperation by the Government, which was well met in cooperation with the relatives and their support groups and with the non-governmental organisations, we will take this further. It's the government's purpose to systematize this in such a way that we're going to go with us the best of what we've learned from the painful we've now been through. And then we get to make sure in good Norwegian way that there's a system that lives on the day we need it, if that's the case. And unfortunately, we must be prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1198	I have two simple questions, so far. As before, the Minister of Justice has a great responsibility to deal with crisis situations. Does the Council of State consider that he now has the instruments and powers to resolve any future crises in a better way, through what is being adopted here today? The second question is what the Council of State itself was dealing with — this with the use of non-governmental organisations. The Council of State may consider how it intends to use them in the operational plan and, where appropriate, use the voluntary organisations that are abroad, such as the mission, crucisators, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1207	I think we just have to admit that expanding a device that is going to be good enough for unexpected situations means getting better and better. So to the question, have I got an improved device available? The answer is yes. Do we have anything to learn from it? Absolutely! Should we have humility in the future? Yes! Maybe one of the most important things we're going to take with us is to train ourselves mentally to think about the unexpected. That is why I put great emphasis on the fact that reviewing scenarios is a very important exercise, as it is the basis for exercises, supervision and planning. But I feel that we have now been clearly strengthened. In addition to what we have nationally, we've got something that makes that if it's necessary internationally, we have it. I also feel that where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in charge, they have been strengthened. As far as voluntary organisations are concerned, it has been suggested in meetings with them that they can be part of the U.D. call teams, that we should use the volunteers outside where they are, and that they can be part of crisis response teams. And from my own sector, we have the very broad and good cooperation with the Voluntary Organisations Rescue Forum – a formidable resource, with honor and honor from this pulpit!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1220	As I said in my main post, I think basically that the government's management of the disaster showed that it was confusion. Nothing happened at first, and it seemed to us outside as if things weren't okay. That is why the Progress Party and the Central Party have proposed that leadership responsibility should lie in the Prime Minister's office, which the Prime Minister does not agree with. It is probably not the Minister of Justice either, as this is probably a government decision. Why does the Minister of Justice think that it is better for leadership to be shared, possibly in more departments, than it is in the Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1227	I would first like to make it clear that I am not a private-practicing state councillor. When I present something on behalf of the Government, I speak to the Government. Then I quote Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik from the hearing, where the representative Width asked a clarifying question: ‘No, it is precisely to not erase the responsibility that we propose the organisation we are doing. We must follow the principle of responsibility. The Minister of Health and Health is responsible for the Storting in health matters. If it breaks out a crisis in that area, the Health Ministry and its underlying agencies shall have the best overview.» Everyone must understand, then, that if it were to break out a pandemic, it is not a Minister of Justice who has the best fit equipment at his disposal. And in a situation with the Government Emergency Council, there's no paralysis, because if it's unclear, it's my department that's in charge. And if there's any confusion about the Ministry of leadership, it's the prime minister's responsibility and duty to cut through in consultation with the relevant government councils. So what we're doing is just mobilizing the responsibility in the line where the competence sits. And then, through the crisis council and the crisis support unit, we have achieved what we need in addition, to which the Government in humility acknowledges after the flood disaster, and to which the Committee on a broad basis subscribes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1242	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' list of missing and deceased persons has been much discussed. It will now be the first time that the police are going to register missing persons the next time there is a major crisis abroad, and there will also be registration systems at both the police and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that can interact. What was the decisive thing, in the opinion of the Council of State, for the choice of this solution? And are we now absolutely sure that the contact points are up-to-date, so that we can be absolutely sure that this will work next time a crisis occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1249	First, change the background. What happened, and which is described both by the Reinås Committee and in the big news, was that there was a regular discussion under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about who would keep the lists. At a time that was agreed, the lists were transferred. But what is decisive about what comes next is the overall experience as shown in the Reinås Committee's report and in the Government's assessment of it. What you're saying is to use just the computer systems you have, and some of the follow-up that will result from this debate is to make sure that it's practical. The police have operational competence, but the representative is quite right that both computer systems and practical routines must then be in place for it to function. We should perhaps also humbly admit that if something happens out there, the world's best trained police in this country will often be able to get up in very difficult situations. The representative was involved in his opening post, that we're moving out, that we're dependent on goodwill, but then we're going to do what we can on our premises, with our competence and with our technique. It might be the central part of the follow-up after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1256	The Workers' Party supports the proposal put forward by the Government on a Central Crisis Council and a crisis support unit to be located in the Ministry of Justice. I also share the Council of State's assessments of which department has to run a crisis board. If, for example: in the case of bacteriological warfare or a major epidemic, the Ministry of Health must do so. But then I have a question: if it is unclear which department or agency is actually responsible for a crisis situation – and remember that these are often time-critical situations – who is it that pinches its fingers and says it is that ministerial council? Is that the Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1263	It is such that the Emergency Council is established on a permanent basis with representatives from the departments mentioned. If in that situation in the crisis Council there is a little bit of confusion, it is the Ministry of Justice that has to take immediate responsibility, and then immediately provide clarification in relation to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's office. It's just that there shouldn't be grey areas. In other words, the responsibility of the Council of Crisis lies with the Ministry of Justice if there is doubt about the Ministry of State and if responsibility is to be exercised, it is the Prime Minister who comes in with the relevant Councils. We have experience that we can deal with that. We also have a crisis council that works. Unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to test it in connection with the great earthquake we got at Sumatra – fortunately there was no tsunami. We've had other situations, too. By using the Council and the crisis support unit, I am absolutely sure that we will get some of the best practices we know from Norwegian operational cooperation, which we have nationally with regard to our main rescue centres, and which we have in the very best versions of civil-military cooperation – and which it shines off when we get enough practice and supervision. Exercises, scenarios, and supervision are absolutely vital for us to be good when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1271	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1274	Practicing crisis management at the strategic level, crises at the department level, in the ministry and between departments, it is natural for the Stortinget to take a stand. The Defence Committee has therefore taken note of the three main elements to be included in the strategic crisis management: strengthen crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government’s crisis management advisory board on the responsibility for crisis management in the LGD establishment of a crisis support unit to address the LGD and the Government’s crisis management board; From the Workers' Party's side, it is also necessary to underline the importance of the exercise and exercise of good leadership. This cannot be underlined well enough, because good preparedness is not just to have a good plan on paper. Another important element is what appeared in the hearings, and there is a distinction between strategic and operational leadership. If everyone in an organisation is busy handling the crisis, it may not be possible that someone has the necessary overview. Such an overview may prevent a situation from getting worse. In my view, this is an argument which argues that operational responsibility lies with a Council of State, and not with the Prime Minister, even though he has the upper and superior responsibility. In modern Norwegian society, social-critical structures exist. Between these structures, there may be small margins that allow a case field and a crisis to change ownership. As a consequence, a crisis with relatively small margins may also shift the department of leadership. Without these margins coming up and up in the light, once in a while, public etats will see that who is responsible for an event is arguing about it. Perhaps several entities are involved in this event, perhaps the crisis has arisen because the wall – or the separation – between the various levels has collapsed, and perhaps the crisis has just arisen because of this. Coordination, responsibility and practice – it is easy to point out how important these factors are. They're harder to live by in practice. The Reinås selection points to serious cracks in the management of the river wave disaster, not least in the initiating phase. I didn't think it was our job as big-time politicians to go after individual ministries in a crisis of this magnitude. We at Stortinget are not the only ones who saw that this was too bad. The parties involved themselves saw that the organisation had clear operational gaps. Operation is not allowed through bulking settings. Operation must be exercised because there is not a single army, a single marine, or an only air defence that is trusted if not operating. Desktop practice may be fine and well done, but they do not stop an outstanding military department. Increased operational exercises must also be included in other parts of central government, not only in defence, police and health services. I believe the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take note of the emergency plans that are being reviewed. The working party has joined the creation of a crisis support device in its configuration. It is important that this unit is put in place as soon as it is advised, and that it is included in exercises. And I want the government to come back to Stortinget with a briefing on how the device is aligned, how it operates, and what the benefits of this innovation are, so that the device becomes as relevant as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1308	Both the rapporteur and the Minister of Justice have referred to the complaint made by the Government in this communication. I have lived so closely and so personally with this disaster that it is on my heart to also repeat this regret that many people in a desperate situation did not get the help they needed from the Norwegian authorities, especially in the first few days. And the fact that I've lived so close and close to this disaster makes it imperative for me now to set up a system that puts us in a much better position to deal with a similar situation in the future. We were not well enough equipped to face the disaster we met. We've had experience; someone was immediately obvious, for example. the need to upgrade our communication systems and our telephone system. We carried out our own assessment, and not least the evaluation carried out by the sample of Reinås provided us with the necessary basis for making improvements. We are now upgrading our foreign stations to be even better able to deal with future crises, accidents and disasters. We can see that, among other things. in the case of updated emergency and evacuation plans for all foreign stations, by upgrading the technical equipment of a number of foreign stations, by revisiting all the technical equipment of our foreign stations that they will need in the event of crises and disasters, by conducting a training and training programme for all station managers, by providing crisis management training to all those serving abroad, and not least by providing a system of annual emergency exercises at all our foreign stations. We don't know where or when a new crisis will affect the Nordics abroad. Therefore, our response capacities must be flexible. The establishment of an exclamation unit is at the heart of our future preparedness. The trained and well-equipped personnel who have such experience shall be able to move out within five hours to assist the foreign station concerned. The composition and size of the unit will depend on the situation you are facing and where it takes place. Police and health personnel will normally be included and, where appropriate, a representative of non-governmental organisations will also be included. The new crisis loss of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now being built up and skills in crisis management are being strengthened. Extensive course activities are now taking place so that, within six months, all stages of the crisis organisation, including political management, shall have received training adapted to their duties and participated in exercises. In addition, a permanent high-capacity emergency telephone number and a new registration system will be among the improvements here at home in the department. I have also noticed that the setting places great emphasis on the establishment of an overall plan for crisis communication in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This work is already under way, and such a plan will be in place in the near future. Several have mentioned in the debate that there has been little time for the Committee to give its opinion. I'm fully aware of that. However, I would like to say that I am grateful that we are already receiving this treatment, because it gives us what we need to know that the improvements that need to be made also have a basis for this debate today. There are not many things that have been said in the debate, I feel the need to comment, maybe just two questions. One is the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. I have now explained some of the steps taken regarding the organisation related to the call-out units and the crisis loss. That debate has also shown overtones in other directions, where it is not all the world of substance that has been put forward, it is more a reference to the fact that others have brought it forward. Then there's a statement from the representative Width that I just have to be allowed to comment very quickly. He said in a reply that nothing happened in the first time. Fortunately, that is not right, and I would like to refer there to the extensive log that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has led, where it is quite clear that a lot has happened at first. The point is that it was not enough in relation to the disaster we were facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1330	I take note of the structural changes that are now being made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I think they are good. But the most challenging chapter in this message is actually the chapter on the Nordics abroad, as I also said in my post, and the mobility that we have, which is greatly increasing in a globalized world. In the case of Norwegians, we talk about everything from Norwegian tourists to Norwegian business people working abroad, we have employees in the UN, NORAD, etc. All of these must be in line with the provisions of international law, and Norwegian authorities must also be based on the rules and regulations of international law. So that's the jurisdiction of the host country. Here you can be lucky or unlucky. Will Norway take any international initiative to strengthen international cooperation in a world with such large population migrations? And how can and will the Government draw on e.g. the International Red Cross, the United Nations system, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1337	I readily agree with Marit Nybakk that one of the most central issues is just the field of tension between the fact that many Northmen travel more places, and perhaps farther away than before, and in greater numbers. At the same time, we need to build on the very basics: that a crisis or disaster should arise, it is not just for Norway to move in – to use that expression. We must deal with the authorities of the recipient countries. I think we will experience very different needs and opportunities for Norwegian authorities to move in. In this way, we were in a lucky situation in Thailand, by the fact that the Thai authorities were very open to foreign contributions and welcomed it, and we had as good cooperation as practicable under the chaotic circumstances. This need not be the case in other situations, as also mentioned, and then I don't think there is any alternative to dealing with the national authorities and as well and as constructively as possible ensuring cooperation, among other things. with other Nordic countries and preferably European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1347	Of course, this could vary from situation to situation. But if we think that a major crisis situation arises abroad, with many Norwegian citizens involved, and that for various reasons it is not possible to get help or to be able to assist in the country, what would be the most important diplomatic channel and the opportunity we have today to try to influence that space of action so that we can get into a better situation to be able to participate directly in the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1352	When the starting point is the country's authorities, yes, it's the country's authorities we have to deal with as quickly as possible. But that means, among other things. the necessary pre-work should and should be provided, inter alia. through the plane we have, and that we are as concrete as possible, so that we identify the minimum factors that are. The problems we're faced with will be completely different if that happens, for example. a earthquake in a country with very well-developed infrastructure, or whether it occurs in a developing country with relatively few resources. This, I think, can only be dealt with in concrete terms, and I think that is what must be very important for the plan that we now have under development in each embassy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1357	The flood disaster showed, in my opinion, that there were very poor procedures for the exchange of information between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our foreign stations. Can the Council of State now say something about what has been done and what will be done to ensure a satisfactory information service?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1362	I think there's two main questions here. One is about the technical possibilities for communicating, and in this area we have provided an upgrade. This is absolutely essential, for example: that we now have the opportunity for satellite communications with the embassies. Something else is that our staffs have to be large enough to be able to handle both the large amounts of information to be given to people, what to receive, and the communication we have to have with the management out there. But just to make sure you're better rusted out, we also create these callout units that are trained and can take more of the management out there and then, and it will in many ways render unnecessary some of the things that we now needed to communicate about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1368	I would like to follow up and ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to what extent the improvements that he has now made are ongoing. I include, then, that there are actually quite a number of Norwegians who are more or less permanently resident abroad, we have companies that are established abroad, we have voluntary organisations in different countries, we have Seamen's Church, etc., and I ask: to what extent are these included in the plans that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now concentrating on, and can it be relevant to drag these different actors into any exercise?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1373	As I mentioned in my post, we started a lot of work without waiting for this debate, because both our own assessment and not least the Reinås committee's setting gave us material for it, and I thought it was important to react as quickly as possible. These things are now constantly evolving. This is not least the plan we are going to be working on, where the plans are now being drawn up. They must be concrete, i.e. that we must be able to pull forces beyond ourselves that are involved in the country in question, and it is important to involve them in the plan. And I guess it's no secret that we then e.g. think of the Norwegian Church abroad and other organisations that are permanently established outside. Where they are, they're quite natural as partners, and I want to say that there was a lot of help in the cancers that joined us in the critical days. This should be systematized so that we can make much better use of it next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1378	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1381	The matter now under consideration is the defence committee. It was then sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for an opinion before the final release, because the case is divided into two parts. On the one hand, there is one thing about how the future organisation of civil protection should and should look, and on the other it is about how the authorities dealt with this crisis when it was a fact. It was then natural that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should give its opinion on the latter part. Mostly the entire committee and those who have spoken here now, I think, has, in an excellent and comprehensive way, illuminated this whole situation. It's not a matter where we disagree. What happened was not good, and we agree that you should have a better preparedness if this happens again. The Reinås Committee states that the management of this disaster in South Asia revealed significant weaknesses in our preparedness. The analysis of the situation by the management concerned was not complete and not exhaustive. Now, of course, it can be claimed that disasters of this kind could not be foreseen, but that is the essence of disaster. We don't know where they're going, we don't know when they're coming, we don't know what they look like, and we don't know what extent they have. This is why, of course, preparedness for such situations is difficult, and it is all the more important that we put down considerable work and knowledge to deal with such situations in the future. According to today’s system and current legislation, the authority responsible for a field of action is also normally responsible for a crisis in this area. In this situation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was considered to be responsible for the management of this crisis by the Norwegian authorities. The Reinås Committee points to a number of weaknesses in the preparedness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also suggests that a crisis of a much smaller extent would reveal a lack of preparedness in Norway. So it was a failure when it came to plans, systems, and management structures. It may seem that there was a certain lack of ability, and perhaps also of willingness, to transfer certain tasks from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to others with considerable experience and competence in crisis and disaster. The Committee also points to the overall responsibility and coordinating authority of the Prime Minister's office, and then finally to the Prime Minister's office. It is possible that at an earlier stage, the Prime Minister should have intervened and transferred certain tasks to others. We've learned a lot of what's happened. We have gained experience and new knowledge that will enable us to create structures, responsibilities and very clear allocation of leadership responsibility if we are to be affected by new disasters or crises, and it is very likely that it will happen sometime in the future. Let me finally say that despite all the defects and defects in this matter, we must be happy that the sample determines that there is no basis to claim that human life has been lost as a result of failure of our systems in this matter. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has today confirmed that all the experience gained in this matter leads to changes. It confirms that significant parts of the criticism raised were justified, but it also confirms that the experience gained has now been taken seriously by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1400	The flood disaster in South Asia shows how important it is to have a robust normal system in order to be able to deal with extreme situations like the one we experienced during the river wave disaster. The health and care sector is to a large extent a standing preparedness organisation. Acute events are part of everyday life. Municipalities, regional health companies, our hospitals, have a legal obligation to draw up contingency plans so that they can provide the population with the necessary health and social services, both during a crisis and in a disaster. During the flood disaster, health authorities took action to ensure that the necessary health and social services were available, both in the disaster area and then survivors and injured returned to Norway. The Ministry of Health and Health has had overall responsibility for coordination with other departments from 3 January this year. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health was given the task of coordinating the operational efforts of the health sector in Norway and South Asia. Three priorities were identified: to identify the health and social situation of the Nordics in the disaster area, to provide home transport of patients and to facilitate health and psychosocial follow-up in Norway. National health and social services have cooperated with, inter alia: police, defence, foreign authorities, relief organisations and travel operators. Internationally, I would like to highlight the cooperation with the Thai authorities. In addition to dealing with the disaster for its own part, Thailand provided an impressive opportunity for response teams from other countries, including Norway, to carry out their missions. In meeting the Thai Minister of Health, I thanked him for the efforts that were made to the North during the days and weeks after the disaster. It was about hospitals as well as rescue workers and the general population. I would also like to underline the importance of cooperation between health authorities in the Nordic countries. Among other things, establish a Nordic cooperation between health teams in Phuket, and address the need for transport out of the disaster area as a common Nordic responsibility. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has had a special responsibility to follow-up actions related to, and affected by, relatives and relatives. It has been important for me to have a close dialogue with support groups from previous disasters in order to take advantage of their valuable and often painful experiences. That is why I already invited a meeting with these and representatives of non-governmental organisations on 3 January to get advice on how we could best do this work with relatives and stakeholders during the acute period. National Support Group following the Flood disaster was established on 24 January. An agreement was reached between the support group and the Norwegian Red Cross on assistance from the Red Cross. The support group is a private organisation and has been an important point of contact between the authorities and the relatives. Meetings have been held between the support group and the health authorities since mid-February. Representatives from the police and other public authorities have also participated in these meetings. The need for related and affected information remains high and will be followed up. The meetings therefore continue until further notice, now at monthly intervals. The disaster in South Asia and past accidents show that the load on both survivors and relatives is high. The support groups established have been important support players for the stakeholders and also for us in different authorities. Last week, June 9, I had a meeting with representatives from various support groups to discuss how we can continue their competence in our efforts to strengthen preparedness for relatives and survivors after major crises and disasters. We have now started work to assess the need to take action to strengthen this preparedness and to ensure that that competence is maintained. This work will be carried out in close dialogue with representatives of support groups, relatives and affected by the flood disaster and after past accidents and disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1429	My impression is that the health minister and health authorities came well from the river wave disaster. So I only have a few questions. Now the Council of State was quite broad on the matter of relatives, and I don't know if there's time to go into it more deeply, but I'm going to ask, how does it work further today? And: How did Norwegian health professionals function in such a major international disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1436	So in the case of the relatives, we've started a job – and it's not just related to the tsunami, but we've invited a lot from all the major disasters we've had – to systematize the experiences we've had. When we called a meeting as early as we did, on 3 January, it was to get their experience from what had been important to the relatives in an early period. We are now going to implement this in the emergency plans of the Ministry of Health, so that we can meet the relatives, the survivors, etc. in the next disaster, which may have to come, in a better way, in a more prepared way. In the case of Norwegian health professionals, as the representative suggests, several thousand have been involved together, and it is clear that there has been a heavy burden on the health system as such in the acute phase. But as I said in my post, the entire healthcare system is an emergency service, and with 100,000 employees in Norwegian hospitals, we also have a significant resource to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1445	The Ministry of Health and Welfare had a significant operational role during the whole of the river wave disaster and, as the representative Halvorsen said, came out of this – as far as we could understand. The Ministry of Health drew very much on the Defence as an operational resource. Of course, it's primarily about the sanity of the defense, which not only dealt with doctors and nurses, but also with psychologists and equipment, with its own transport aircraft and in addition to Hercules planes, who assisted the Red Cross in transporting goods to people who needed it very much. The last big news we addressed on social security and crises, has reportedly «Societal security and civil-military cooperation». I would like to ask how the Minister of Health is also thinking in the future, for example. during exercises, to connect precisely the health of the defence and the cooperation that exists between the health service and the health of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1454	The chairperson of the Committee is entitled to have the Ministry of Health play a significant role in this from the outset. We were closely involved also in the period when the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had the coordination, and we attended all the meetings that were to coordinate it. There were not only health authorities, but there was also the Defense and we all. I had a strong feeling and a strong impression of, where we put the first hours and days, with – I was saying – not much more knowledge of reality than that CNN could at any time tell us, that this was a good thing between all the relevant authorities. I do not conceal that the health authorities and the defense have had significant cooperation. We should have that, too, and we should have it even more in the future, because the defense has a lot of resources on sanitation. But it's also the case that a lot of the sanitation you wear when there's a lot of stuff going on in the defense is people who work in the health care system every day. So this is interwoven in a good way, and it should just be lacking that you can't take advantage of the common resources when the crisis is at its greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1461	I would like to quote from what the Council of State said in the hearing on 6 June on crisis management: ‘To be good, two things are required: talent and practice. You never become world champion of having just one of those parts. Norwegian health care is an organisation that has both talent and practice. It's an emergency organisation, and I actually have over 110 000 employees directly as Minister of Health, as well as several tens of thousands of health workers in the municipalities indirectly. This means that the whole organisation, unlike some others who can be said to be involved in that type of activity, is self-employed.’ Was this what was missing in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1472	With regard to the statement of talent and practice, it is of general application. No one has received the Olympic medal just because of talent, and no one has received it just because of training. There's no doubt that it's the fire department, it's the health department, it's the police, it's the defense, it's all tough organizations of this type that are set up with a significant crew to deal with crises of greater or lesser importance, are organizations that attract resources that are huge, to deal with the operational. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' task in the opening days of this crisis was not to have tens of thousands of employees standing by as people came. The task was to manage the information flood, to report on its needs, and to contact the authorities of Thailand and other countries. It's quite obvious, as the Foreign Minister has said, and as it says in the big news, and as the Reinås report actually also says, you can never mannify all of our hundreds of foreign stations as emergency agencies in total to deal with this. We always have to draw on other people's resources as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1481	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1484	The flood-wave disaster in South Asia came abruptly and unexpectedly. It came with a strength and brutality no one could wait. It spread death and destruction. It created emptiness and sorrow and also left great wounds and injuries that it will take many years to take care of, if they can be cured at all. The disaster also highlighted whether our preparedness and our tool to reduce damage is good enough. Do we have a warning system that works? Do we have enough people and equipment to help? Do people have enough understanding and understanding that a disaster of this kind or another disaster of the same magnitude can come back, and what does society do to be ready? The disaster in South Asia left many questions, but let us all hope that it has also brought something positive, and that any damage and destruction will later be reduced due to more understanding and knowledge as well as changed and improved procedures. The aim of the work must be to look at what worked well, and what worked less well, and to work to ensure that whatever position and position you can work together for the common good in a crisis situation. I also believe that this disaster brought people and countries closer together. There was a total grief, and the help came from many sides. People who are otherwise meant to give gave to the non-governmental organisations the magnitude that someone actually had to say no to more. This shows some of the goodness that exists among people when you need it. Let's build on this. When the disaster came, it could seem to many of us that we didn't fully understand the extent and size of it. Some organisations and people in jobs who should have reacted more quickly in some way may have reacted later than expected. But when you first acted, it seemed like – in a rough way – you did it in a way that you should expect in such a situation. No disasters are the same, and when you get a disaster that lies slightly away from those you are used to with Norwegian eyes, the result was, of course, pretty good, with some exceptions. I also want to say something about military-civil cooperation. It is good and proper for society to use the defence equipment and personnel in a crisis, but it is possible that the defence may need to train more together with those who become partners in a crisis situation. There are several reasons for this. At the same time, it is very important to have clear guidelines and command lines, so that there is no room for help workers to be seen as military, who in turn will be able to create conflict situations. So it's the most correct thing that the defense takes care of, among other things. infrastructure, such as repairing/building roads and bridges, providing transport, lending materials and quiet with e.g. hospital equipment and assistance. There must therefore be a clear division of roles between civil and military action. It is also important to remember that our defence is largely built on and around Norwegian conditions and is relatively little prepared for disasters in warmer areas. As regards the defence effort in this disaster, it turned out, as the Progress Party has long argued, that our transport aircraft, Hercules machines, should be replaced as soon as possible – also in order to do this type of job, of course. Nor can Norway be familiar with having aircraft that cannot do a full-time job. In any case, you have to do a good job, the equipment must be in place, and it must be in such a condition that you can complete a job without, for example: had to inter-country due to errors. But the most important thing, as mentioned earlier, is that each organisation does its job and has good cooperation, with clear responsibilities and clear command lines, and that the population understands who does what and who is responsible, so that any conflict situations are avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1501	It's always easier said than done, but after major crises it's important to raise your eyes. We have to look forward, rather than dig into past faults and shortcomings. But we have to be able to look back to the extent necessary, in order to learn from the mistakes and shortcomings of the past. After the Cold War, our society has met defence challenges of a new kind. Our modern society has had to change to new threats, and to meet them, our society must use our common resources in a different way. During this major period, the Defence Committee has addressed two major messages on social security and in many ways carried out emergency post-crime work. In the configurations related to the social security impact assessments, the Defence Committee has made concrete proposals and addressed important challenges. Not all questions have been answered by St.meld. No 37, but someone has it. The government has, for example: has fallen to the fact that the principle of liability should apply as before. This issue has been raised by the Committee, but the Government chooses to follow the same line as before, namely that it is the department responsible for a common area of business which is also responsible for the same field of action in the event of a crisis. We support this from the Workers' Party. In the face of the Storting, it is the individual Council of State that answers its questions. The Prime Minister is responsible for the government, in line with Norwegian custom. Had the Prime Minister's office been given responsibility for crisis management, this principle would have been questioned. However, it is not possible for the Prime Minister to shoulder his responsibilities. The Prime Minister has the top responsibility and has to answer for his government’s action – for good and bad. The Government proposes a possible transfer of responsibility between departments in major crisis situations and maintains that the Ministry of Justice should have overall responsibility. The Ministry of Justice is also currently responsible for the main gravity of national rescue and preparedness resources, but the Ministry should not rely on this authority. The Labour Party believes that a strengthened crisis management apparatus abroad is also required. Relations with the Nordics abroad need more attention. Foreign-related ratios have not been significantly affected in the two social security positions. Each Norwegian has the right to the best possible assistance when the accident is over. Money will always be too little of it, you can understand that. It is far worse to forgive poor organisation and immature technical equipment. That's why it's necessary to keep our ability to organize. Nevertheless, it is for a small country like ours difficult to issue guarantees. Nevertheless, we should strive for an intermediate level that exists between the situation on the second Christmas Day 2004 and bank guarantees. Norwegian citizens abroad must and must be better assured. I would like to refer to the Red Cross's recordings at the hearings, which were arranged on 3 and 6 June, and in particular the importance of being quick on the spot where an accident has occurred. The Defence Committee has therefore joined in the proposals made by the Government, including the proposed strengthening of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Offices and improved cooperation with voluntary and private organisations. Let's hope we don't get a new crisis in jail, because it's not sure that opinion will be restrained in the next situation that requires national coordination. Such situations will come, we just don't know when, and in what form they appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1520	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1523	I allow myself to rely on the Committee's reference to the examination of St.meldung. No 39 for 2003-2004, social security and civil-military cooperation. In this context, I would like to quote from the Legal Affairs Committee the clarification of the concept of total defence: ‘The total defence includes the exploitation of military and civil resources to maintain an organised and functioning society, to protect the population and the values of society. The military defense consists of the defense. The civil part of the total defence includes the whole of society with all its functions that must function in crisis and war. The Committee would also clarify that the total resources available to deal with a war could also be used for difficult, crisis-like events in peace. ‘... It is difficult for a society to protect its inhabitants from everything at all times and everywhere. This disaster showed when it caught us that we, as individuals and as groups, are a significant resource. Many who were at the places the river wave hit, and who were able to help, made a great effort. The same was true of relatives and volunteers both at home and outside. Yet, as individuals, we must always prepare ourselves for disaster. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness shall have an overview of the risks and vulnerabilities of society. The Directorate shall be a driver in cooperation with the prevention of accidents, crises and other adverse events. The Executive Board shall ensure good preparedness and efficient accident and crisis management. Vulnerability in society is not static – today’s challenges are not necessarily tomorrow’s challenges. The Directorate shall contribute to preventing the loss of life and the protection of health, the environment and material values in connection with accidents, disasters and other adverse events in peace, crisis and war. In view of this, we have here, as other speakers have also pointed out, a tool through the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness that society should develop and use to a much greater extent than today, in particular as regards information activities or awareness-raising activities aimed at individual citizens and the community's common preparedness bodies. It is important here to point to the need to coordinate exercises in order to achieve the best possible standard for emergency services across the country. It's in a normal situation we as a nation can practice to deal with a crisis situation when it can once again hit us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1539	Twice earlier in this ageing period, the Stortinget has addressed the national crisis management preparedness. We could say it so that the second Christmas day our preparedness was really put to the test. The first two or three critical days, we all have to recognize and admit, was very much that didn't work. There is no doubt that the foreign service came too late where the North had been hit, and eventually too few people were able to assist all the Northmen who had been hit. It was blasted telephone lines to the U.D., with everyone who had his closest in the area. There was a lack of a registration system for survivors and missing, and there was a lack of coordination between departments. We can see that the Ministry of Health was a little late, and the police got the list a little late. It was a problem. We can see that when the Ministry of Health and the police arrived a little late, there were not organizational reasons, but there was a lack of leadership in those areas. I think most of us would have expected it to work better than it actually did. Many have later said that they could not dream that such a great disaster would befall thousands of Norwegians abroad. And that's right, we couldn't dream about it. But is it not that crisis management is just about taking account of unforeseen events? We must have such a flexible and robust crisis management that it can work just when unforeseen events occur. One thing we can be sure of, and that's that when it occurs again, it will again occur at a very unpleasant time, and it will occur in the most unexpected way possible. It was an extreme situation for all of us who were in the middle of it. In addition to the event itself, very many stood without assets, had only what they stood in and went in, was without roof over their heads and looking for family and friends. This does something to all those who are being hit. I want to pay tribute to the Government for so quickly putting down the Reinås committee and thus helping to document what had happened. The Reinås Committee also helped many who experienced the tsunami on a close basis feel that they are getting an upswing by getting written proof that they were believed. But now is the time to look forward, and I think what the government has presented to improve the crisis management preparedness for the future is very good, and I think we should not experience being in the same situation again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1552	The flood disaster that struck so brutally during the winter of space will forever stand out as a cruel example of the forces of nature, an example of the unimaginable reality. In the middle of this, there were very many holidaying Northmen, who were suddenly thrown into the disaster. When, on the basis of the Reinås selection, the Government has now established its status and drawn up the lines of the Norwegian preparedness work in the future, it is important to note that the Storting is largely in line with the strategies chosen by the Government. When this has taken place so quickly, it is important to stress and note that much of the basis was laid through the comprehensive examination of the messages on social security, through which the Storting has spent two rounds. The Norwegian emergency seats are working very well. In fact, our rescue settings are model for other countries, and the interaction between them works very well. But when events occur abroad, we suddenly find ourselves in a different situation, a situation that requires interaction with the authorities of other countries. The Reinås Committee says that the flood disaster showed that Norway had neither a structure nor an apparatus to deal with crises. It is therefore important that the focus on social security that was taken into account in the Inst. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, is followed up. The Judicial Committee and the Defence Committee stated: ‘The Committees point out that modern society is also a vulnerable society, where threats to people’s security are both accidental and deliberate.’ It is important that the public have confidence in the authorities’ ability to deal with a crisis that arises and the availability of the necessary preparedness. It is therefore very positive that the Government in reference to the future crisis management is based on three main elements: enhanced crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government’s crisis management committee and the clarification of the responsibilities for crisis management in the Ministry of leadership and the establishment of a new crisis support unit to assist in the support functions of the Ministry of leadership and the Board of Directors in their crisis management reorganisation of the work on new information preparedness; Interaction with the authorities in countries where disasters occur is essential in order to provide the best possible assistance to Norwegian citizens. I believe that the lessons learned from the flood disaster will lead to a faster integration of the Norwegian resources that are required to assist: health authorities, police, non-governmental organisations and, in some situations, the defence, all of which have the necessary training and preparedness to respond quickly. I was in Thailand, in Phuket, at Easter this year, and experienced a warning about possible new tsunami. A new submarine earthquake was recorded outside Sumatra. In a short time, the authorities in Thailand were notified, and I, who was put as a tourist on the non-restaurant, was quickly notified together with other tourists and locals. We were told to go to the hotel. There was a meeting in the reception and rapid evacuation up the mountain side to a planned place. We stayed there until the father was over. It was a pleasure to see that the preparedness was on top, and that the information was good. It was good to feel that things worked. At home, the crisis council met very quickly, as Dørum has pointed out earlier in the debate. This was a positive point for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1588	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1604	Heikki Holmås has the floor, for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1607	The discussion on the review of pioneer diving conditions in the North Sea was taken in connection with Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003 and its duration, Innst. S. No 137 for 2003-2004. The background for the notification was NOU 2003:5, the decision of the Lossius Commission. The Lossius Commission recommended a replacement scheme for the pioneer divers. They say on page 9: «The Commission considers that the State and oil companies should be able to be held objectively liable for the damage suffered by the North Sea Divers.» In order to have a legal claim for compensation, three cumulative requirements are made: The first is causality. The second is that it's a bit of an economic loss. The third is that there is a basis for liability, blame or unstatutory objective responsibility. The existence of a causal link between being a pioneer diver, and thus test subjects, and the damage that has been done to many of them later, was long-term doubted and disputed. However, there is no doubt that this is indeed the case. It has been identified in a number of reports, most recently in the report ‘Health status of former North Sea divers’, developed at Haukeland University Hospital. This is stated in several specific wordings, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Compared to the unreferred divers, the divers surveyed had a higher cumulative diving exposure.’ In other words, the more you have dived, the more likely you are to be injured. A crucial question in this regard is: How early has this been known? Have the Norwegian authorities done what they could to prevent people from getting hurt? It is reasonable that this will be in line with a legal and political assessment of the basis of liability. The second ratio that has to be met to get compensation is that it's a little bit of an economic loss. This is not disputed. Everyone agrees that a number of people have suffered disability or otherwise been injured and thus lost income. The third relationship is whether there is a basis for liability and who has it. Here I find it interesting to go back to the Ministry of Justice's assessment of the liability of 27 March 2003 as a result of the Lossius Commission: ‘In the view of the Legal Department, there is a lot of talk that the divers’ employers are initially responsible on an unregulated objective basis for damage to the divers as a result of the dive. Accordingly, the rightholder in question will also be liable on the basis of the contracting authority’s responsibility, cf. applicable petroleum law § 10-9, first paragraph.» Already here, the Storting should have made a political assessment. If it is that many, perhaps very many, perhaps all of those who have been injured as a result of the pioneering dive, would be entitled to compensation, why do not a majority in this room take the political responsibility to give them this compensation? These people, along with those who were not injured, provided the basis for the oil wealth that today makes Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. Then, in the name of propriety, we should assume our responsibility to ensure that they receive the compensation they actually have the right to. The state should undertake to implement a compensation settlement as if the state had an objective responsibility, and we were in dialogue with the oil companies to find out whether the state should resort to the companies involved, or whether we should resolve this with a voluntary arrangement. That is what the Central Party and the Advance Party have previously proposed, and that is what we are once again proposing today. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the same attributed to the Law Department of 27 March 2003, which states the following about the liability of the State: ‘A manifest breach of an obligation to act where the authorities become aware of a danger may, in the circumstances, give rise to liability.’;» In addition, it says: ‘The Department of Law assumes that the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are closest to the initial assessment of the extent to which this legislation may be said to have imposed legal obligations to take further decisions.’ The departments didn't. The Lossius Commission concluded with – and I repeat: «The Commission considers that the State and oil companies should be able to be held objectively liable for the damage suffered by the North Sea Divers.» Further: ‘The Examination Commission recommends that, for North Sea divers with health damage, a system of compensation should be established. The scheme should be established and financed by the State and rightholders/operators should be invited to participate in the financing.’;» While this was the Lossius Commission's recommendation, the government thought differently when they presented St.meld. No 47. They were at the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, which said: ‘However, the Division of Law notes that it is difficult to see that the findings of the Commission’s investigation are sufficient to establish any legal liability for the State.’ This is where the Control Committee takes over the work. So far, the content of the case has been known to the municipal committee, but here comes the question of whether new information is available. So in a note dated 7 December 1976 from the police surveillance service to the Norwegian Underwater Institute, it was stated the following: ‘According to the head of the Institute, it shall be available per year. date no public training offer or certification scheme for divers in Norway. There is also no provision of training for health professionals in the field of requiring under-pressure treatment. Furthermore, there is no preparedness for the landing of that patient category. Here, therefore, there should be some argumentative substance in the hunt for evidence of ‘capital repression’.’» This is what is at the heart of the work done by the Control and Constitutional Committee. On repeated questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration, it has been tried to find out whether this is new information that should lead to a retreatment, and whether there is information that should lead to the setting up of a compensation scheme for the pioneers, in line with what the Law Department actually believes should apply to the pioneers. However, it is said by the Government that it is up to the individual diver to bring any claim for compensation against the individual responsible company that has hired them, instead of the state going in, as SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party have wanted. We say: now we cut through – when many of these people are in any case entitled to compensation, we should go in and take the responsibility that lies here. The question is whether we have received some good answers from the Council of State in this process. We believe that we have not received that. We believe that it has been repeatedly said that these are things that are already known, here there is nothing new under the sun, this was the basis of the department's assessment in St.meld. No 47. This can be said in relation to what was stated in the health report. Although we believe that the health studies that came from Haukeland establish even more the relationship between diving and the damage that followed, there is no doubt that it is very important to ask questions about the knowledge of the information that was clearly in the police surveillance service. It is very unclear whether this information is something to which the entire body of government has already become aware. On the contrary, the Council of State in a letter says that it is difficult to get an overview of what the government and various institutions knew about this at all times. So, overall, we believe that this new information only underpins what we've been thinking all along, that the state should go in and take a responsibility here to settle this matter once and for all, and make sure that the pioneers get the compensation they're actually entitled to. Finally, I just want to do two things. One is to address the proposal of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The second is so say: all the debate about this matter has led to one thing. We have thought from our side that this should lead to a full review of the working conditions of divers in the petroleum sector. We wanted it as a matter of our own, and we have missed it. Now it is said that we get this in connection with the treatment of safety on the base, which comes after the collapse choice. And at least that makes us clear, that we get to work on this, gets it on track in a good way that hopefully we'll avoid accidents in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1685	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1688	The pioneers in the North Sea have played a vital role in creating our common oil fortune. The personal victims have been great. Injury to the body and soul pervades the everyday life of many of those who stood at the head and trampled their borders, risking their lives to make Norway one of the world's richest nations. I believe that much of our wealth today we can thank the North Sea divers for. The way to society's recognition and understanding of the great victims that were given has been long. The decision of the Storting to establish a separate compensation scheme for the pioneers in the North Sea of 9 March 2004 and its implementation clarified the question of compensation on behalf of the Community. Now it's important to look forward. We must ensure that divers for the future are not exposed to such dangers as the pioneer divers were exposed to. During the 2004 government investigation, the Storting asked for a review of how diving activities are organised on a Norwegian base today. This work is in progress. In this context, it is important that issues relating to rules on health control, education, long-term follow-up and phase-out or transition to a profession on the surface are considered. Clear legislation and protection of the working environment are other important keywords. In short, health, environment and safety must be at the centre of our future oil extraction plans. It must and must be the responsibility of the State to ensure that the activities carried out on a Norwegian base are properly operated and that the safety of those working there is ensured. It is therefore essential that employee organisations be included in the preparation of the call for proposals. I am pleased that an overall committee is behind the proposal to ask the Government to set up a joint working group to record the impact of the notification on the organisation of health, environmental and safety measures in the petroleum sector. It must contain clear requirements for health rules on the premises of divers and not on the premises of oil companies. Learning from what has happened should be so visible that once and for all there will be an end to the discussion of what is good diving in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1699	The centre party was pleased when, in April of this year, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to raise a case on the issue of the State's possible legal liability for the damage suffered by individual divers during the pioneer days in the North Sea. The state responsibility was highlighted in the Lossius selection. The Commission concluded that there was a great deal to be said about the legal liability of the State and therefore the financial responsibility for the damage caused by some divers as a result of diving in the North Sea, and damage that could develop – delayed damage. The state was and is the landowner on the base. The state was and is a judge. The State was and is lawgiver, regulator and supervisor. The state's companies are developers. When the Municipal Committee discusses St.meld. No 47 last winter, it was unacceptable for the minority – the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party – to accept that the Government could answer: ‘A liability cannot be established for the State because the State has not had a strong enough link to its activities.’ On the issue of the design of a compensation scheme, the minority made use of a system according to the same principle as under the compensation law, and that compensation should be treated as if the State had an objective responsibility for those concerned. As you know, it was not accepted. After that, the issue of state responsibility is still a subject. It's been reinforced, not least when the final Haukeland report came. In the previous matter today, the Storting discussed the importance of professionals in all fields when an accident occurs. It's important for divers when something happens, whether it's on the base or it's incision. And it is very good what has so far come out of the matter that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has now opened up, that the focus has been on the past and future, so that one can get a completely different code and a thorough discussion in connection with the news of the collapse that the ministry is working on. But that's also the case, if we go back a little bit, that in the NOU which came in 1975, and which referred to the social and health conditions of the petroleum industry at sea, it is said about diving: ‘This is the most risky part of the work on the installation. Diving operations at such depths are recognised as dangerous and it appears that it has not been possible to adequately guard against accidents to date.» It is also the case that when NUI was created, an expanded government commitment was announced from several departments to increase security. It was important for several departments to say that something should now be done, including taking a greater responsibility. Part of this matter I think I should be asking questions about what consistency there was between what was said and what was done. Who was responsible for not following up what was said, and who was responsible for following up, when one knew how dangerous diving was, and when one knew that if one were to secure those who were exposed to it, both rules and supervision had to be in place? From the centre party we make it very clear that we are in agreement with the minority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1729	The regulatory time has passed, but the President proposes that we continue this morning's meeting until this matter is settled. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1734	Today, the size reconsiders the question of a possible compensation scheme for the pioneer divers. This is a difficult matter, which has been going on for several years. I would like to point out at the outset that the authorities have taken the issue of the possible health effects of pioneering diving very seriously. The investigation commission, which was set up in 2001, concluded that a not insignificant part of the pioneer divers are currently struggling with serious medical problems. The conclusion of the previous deliberations, that the State should take moral and political responsibility for the pioneer divers as a group, rested among others. on these assessments of the health status of pioneers today. I can therefore not see that new information has now been obtained that places this matter in a different light. Nor is there any doubt that knowledge of the petroleum industry, including diving, was limited in Norway during the pioneer period. An entirely new industry was established in a few years, a risky industry with significant challenges. The government has stressed that as part of giving the divers the recognition and upliftment they deserve for their efforts, the State should take collective and moral responsibility towards the North Sea divers. The State has, through the already adopted compensation scheme, wanted to recognise a social responsibility for the divers. This is not least due to the fact that many North Sea divers today are in a difficult situation in life. The government has been committed to a rapid and predictable settlement for the pioneer divers, based on the recognition of moral and political responsibility, and with the desire to give rise to reasonable consideration to the scheme. I believe that through the compensation scheme, combined with collective recognition of the pioneers divers and assistance in their daily life situation through the established contact telephone, a settlement is now being made that provides a reasonable uplift for the divers. At the same time, I hope that we can now look forward and focus on the many important tasks related to the safety of the Norwegian base that we are facing today. Fortunately, today, on the basis of increased knowledge and better regulation, we have a safer working day for the divers in the North Sea. A well-functioning regulatory framework and a good system of supervision are a prerequisite for this. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government set up a joint working group to be involved in the work of the General Public Health, Environment and Safety Communication in the petroleum sector. The notification shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in the spring of 2006. I believe, as the Committee itself has pointed out, that the parties have considerable competence in diving and that the Committee's intention is to stress that the parties should be given the opportunity to make contributions in connection with the fact that the Government of the planned Landfill Communication also focuses on diving activities as it is currently being carried out. The Ministry has set up the Security Forum, to be managed by the Petroleum Authority, which is the central interaction arena between the industry and the health, environmental and safety authorities in the petroleum industry on a Norwegian base and in some land installations. In its work on the forthcoming Communication, the Government has agreed to cooperate with industry partners through the Security Forum. In order to ensure that we get the best and most qualified recordings in terms of diving today, we will ask that the Security Forum on this matter be expanded with representatives of the parties with special dive competence, and that a working group under the Security Forum, which is looking in particular at today's diving challenges, be set up in accordance with the request of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1753	There are a few things that I think are a little eye-catching about this matter. One thing that's important, and that's interesting, of course, is that the government doesn't let you go into the Commission's proposal, that's to take the responsibility you're going to have, by sitting in a situation where you give compensation as if you have an objective responsibility. The second is that the Council of State, in letters to the Control Committee, says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘What institutions or individuals knew about the dangers of diving is difficult for me to have a sense of.’ So that’s what he says. I think it's problematic, because that's exactly what there were individuals, not to talk about institutions, had knowledge of this matter, which is the facts of the matter. That is what determines whether it is possible to say that what is said in the Law Department has been done: ‘An adversarial breach of an obligation to act when the authorities become aware of a danger may, in the circumstances, lead to liability.’ The Commission, in its summary of supervision and these things, states that, to the extent understood by the Commission, the people in charge of supervision felt that they had an overview and control of the tasks they were assigned to carry out. But we have several other examples of things that have been made aware of that which are dangerous, which it has not responded to. Then I would like to ask this simple question to the Council of State: Has the Council submitted this new information to the Department of the Law Department in the Ministry of Justice? Thus, the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department says that what appears in the Commission's investigation is not ‘sufficient to establish any legal responsibility for the State’. The question then is: has this new information been submitted to the Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice? And the second is: what, in the opinion of the Council of State, is to ensure that the limits of what is sufficient knowledge, and that the supervisory tasks – the missing ones – have been carried out as thoroughly as they should have been, have been breached by the public authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1773	The next speaker is Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1776	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1784	This was no line – it took four minutes. Heikki Holmås got the word on the matter, and the rest must also relate to it. Then it is Berit Brørby to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1789	I can wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1796	Then the President will give the floor to Mr. Magnhild Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1799	I was a little unsure whether this was a string change or not. I'm not going to keep an article of 3 minutes, I'm just going to ask a question to the Council of State, me too, and he's going to have the opportunity to sum up in relation to the questions that are being asked. The comments made by the minority in the control committee show that what they want is to get a final clarification of the state's legal responsibility for the pioneer divers' situation, and then they point to two factors: they say that the normal body for clearance is the judicial system, and they provide a basis for why they don't see it as appropriate. They say that the Stortinget could have followed up with free legal assistance to make that road easier. So they also say that it could be possible for the Storting to set up its own commission with legal expertise and give an independent assessment. But then they also reject it and say that this case is so well-lit that new cases and long cases should be unnecessary. And then they go to the proposal for a compensation scheme based on liability. When the Lossius selection said what they said, and when this has come to light that there are direct delays, which have been reinforced by the Haukeland report, and we all know what the connection the state has had and has to the oil industry, the question to the Council of State will be: What would happen before he meant that the state had a legal responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1808	I'm not going to extend the debate very much. I was actually going to take a line at the Council of State, but I'm just taking a very brief remark. We often disagree with the Council of State, but when there is a basis for saying that something is good, and that you are satisfied, you should also say it. At least that is my position. And that state council said that there's going to be a party sample where the divers are going to have an influence on new rules on the environment, health and safety of the socket, I think was a good receipt from the council. I just want to assure myself of one thing, and that is that the Council of State will implement this soon, so that no time is lost, as it is already due to be notified in the spring of 2006. My experience with ministerial work and with working groups is that it takes time to get the real influence also for employees' various organisations. So I just want to assure myself and ask the Council of State to confirm that this will be implemented immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1815	On the representative’s question, the answer is simple and correct. We are in the process of preparing the big message. The Security Forum, to which I referred, has a mission, and we will provide the additional features in relation to the organisation of the work that I presented in my post. The representative, Holmås, finds it ‘appointing’ that I have replied to questions from the control committee that I cannot have a full overview of what individuals might have known about these questions in the 1970s. It would have been far more alarming if I had said that I had a full overview of it. It would really be alarming. We must bear in mind here that we have had a review commission that has done a lot of work, that has had access to documentation and archives and to ask questions, the questions they have wanted to ask, that the Storting then, on the basis of a communication from the Government, dealt with this, and decided to conclude with a compensation scheme, which has then been implemented to the point and pointed out by the Government as the majority of the Storting has determined. I am of the opinion that the circumstances mentioned in the Committee's position are not such as to call for the decisions taken by the Stortinget on this point, and I note that a majority in the Chamber seems to agree with that assessment. It is true that both the report of the Lossius Committee and the hearing opinion of the Lossius Committee were submitted to the Legal Department and the review that has been carried out are mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for the current budgetary period. The questions asked by the Control Committee on this matter have been answered by me, under my responsibility, and have been assessed in my department. As for the question from Holmås and so far also Meltveit Kleppa about what is going on because the Council of State believes that the State has a legal responsibility, I would say that the Government and the previous Council of State in this field were related to the Law Department's assessment of this issue and put it before the Stortinget, and that has also been done by this Council of State. I have not made personal legal assessments of that issue, but have taken into account the assessments made by the Law Department. This means that the final answer to whether the State has an objective responsibility can only be given by the courts, given the clarification that the Storting has made of its role in this. An action has been brought against the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the courts which, according to judgment, will give the courts the opportunity to try that question, and in my view that is exactly what we have courts to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1828	I got the answer I wanted, because when the Council of State says you don't have a liability, the Council of State says it on the basis of the knowledge that the entire government had. It's a little alarming, as I said, when you're sure that the state doesn't have a liability, and you say, "I can't know all of the things that different institutions and individuals in my office and underlying agencies knew about." The point is that when, as the Legal Department says, the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are the ‘most likely to assess in the first instance the extent to which this legislation can be said to have resulted in legal obligations to take further decisions’, it is precisely when new information is available, which was not previously submitted to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, that the Council of State must sit down and assess: is this information which actually documents that our department and underlying agencies perhaps knew more than the Commission of Inquiry has presented and found out, and which should indicate that yes, this is a step further in the legal sense of responsibility for the State, and not least is it driven further in political terms of the State? That's exactly the last thing we think on our side, that politically it is. We believe that there is so much to suggest that the state has an objective responsibility here, while the Commission says that it has, that we should take political responsibility together and make sure that the state – instead of a number of people having to take action against the state and a number of employers they have had – puts down their feet, cuts through and says: We take this responsibility, and if it is so that there are others who have this responsibility, we can rather resort to recourse to them. But it doesn't matter to the Council of States, and I think that in itself is alarming, when it's actually that new information emerges, which is the responsibility of the Council of States to assess. He assesses it and is sure that this is not new in the matter, this is something you knew in advance. At the same time, he says, we don't know if there's any more knowledge lying there, because I can't control everything everybody else knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1835	In a case like this, it is important to keep separate the legal assessments made by our leading legal bodies, it is the Ministry of Justice's law department in the administration or court of that part of our Constitution, and the political assessments that governments and magnificence may have to make. I have in my argument clearly kept those things apart, the representative Holmås mixing them together. What is the matter is that there has been a comprehensive investigation. The size of the investigation has been examined, and the question raised in the Committee's position is: Has any new information been obtained after that examination, which suggests that the main question of the objective responsibility of the State must be re-examined? To that I have replied that my assessment is that it is not. There is no sloping certainty in this, that it is inconceivable for the future that new information can be put on the table, but there is an assessment of the work done, the decisions taken by the Storting and the Committee's position. I hope that the focus in the future can be exactly what I put the emphasis on in my post, how we can ensure for the future that we can, to the greatest extent possible, prevent accidents and injuries of the kind we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-13.ana.ud2165e1840	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The budget is now interrupting its negotiations, and a new meeting will be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
