ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e51	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e60	Kindergarten is an important venue for play and learning. The kindergarten stimulates social development and provides useful training in conflict resolution and interaction. The kindergarten shall convey values and culture, provide room for children's own cultural creation and contribute to the experience of all children in a social and cultural community. Parents who choose to have their children in kindergarten shall be able to rely on kindergarten to provide a safe and healthy environment for play and development. Children spend a lot of time in kindergarten, and often children have longer days there than mother and father have to work. It is then essential that staff are qualified, that there are enough adults present, and that children have room to expand both inside and outside. The kindergarten shall offer both good care and a pedagogically organised offer. An overall committee is concerned that staff should be given the opportunity to further enhance their competence, and therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner with a plan to enhance their competence in the nursery sector. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that a broad majority will continue the Christian purpose paragraph. Parents have the primary responsibility for the child’s education. It is therefore important that the purpose paragraph is practised in such a way that parents’ rights as employers are respected and that children do not engage in a loyalty conflict between home and kindergarten. Parents have the primary responsibility for the child’s education, and should teach children first and foremost what is right and wrong and guide them on important ethical issues. The Training Act also has a Christian purpose. The Christian People's Party sees it as natural that kindergarten and school have the same value base. The Christian purpose paragraph does not open up to Christian preaching in kindergarten, it belongs to baptismal training. However, the Christian purpose paragraph assures children who grow up in Norway, knowledge of the Christian cultural heritage. We believe it is important that kindergarten children learn why we celebrate Christmas and Easter. That's how they get knowledge of important values and traditions in our society. Kindergarten shall contribute to the development of children in a social and cultural community based on the Christian value base. The right of children to participate is enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Today's nursery law does not provide for the child's own right to participate in kindergarten. The Christian People's Party is therefore in favour of legislating children's right to participate in the new kindergarten law. The right to participation is important for the development of children. An overall committee agrees with the Ministry that the obligation to approve kindergartens needs to be strengthened. A full-day offer with a clear institutional preference shall be subject to the provisions of the Kindergarten Act. Manning, indoor and outdoor areas and sanitary conditions must be arranged for the type of activity being carried out. Children shall not be in institutionalised all-day services without a pedagogical offer of qualified staff. Most day mothers fit a small group of children in a private home. Many day-old mothers are neighbors, friends or relatives of the child’s parents, and a broad majority of the Committee therefore believes that parents must be able to choose to organise care for children themselves without requiring formal approval under the Children’s Homes Act. All-day institutional services require a completely different framework than four two-year-olds in a private home. The level and content of childcare services in reception facilities varies. A broad majority of the Committee therefore asks the Government to monitor the childcare activities of asylum recipients and to assess whether these activities should be included in the Children’s Court Act. An inter-ministerial working group has been set up under the direction of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, including: Ministry of Children and Family Participation. The Group shall assess measures for children in reception of asylum with a view to strengthening the mental health of children. The Christian People's Party believes that issues related to the childcare services of asylum recipients will be a natural part of this group's work. The kindergarten agreement has led to new, important tasks for municipalities in the kindergarten sector, among others. by establishing a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide a sufficient number of kindergartens and a coordinated admission process. Furthermore, the legislation on equivalent treatment provides the municipality with financial responsibility for private kindergartens. The role of local authorities is thus significantly strengthened. Although the role of the municipality as a kindergarten authority has been strengthened, it is important that municipalities have some overall state norms to deal with in the exercise of approval and supervision. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party believes it is important that the indicative land standard, the regulation on pedagogical densities and the regulation on the framework plan that sets out the contents of the nursery are maintained. It is the municipalities that are currently responsible for the supervision of each nursery. Municipal supervision has been proposed further, but at the same time it is proposed to introduce administrative supervision. The county then receives responsibility for overseeing the municipalities to carry out their responsibilities of authority, including ensuring that the municipalities effectively carry out adequate supervision. This is supported by an overall committee asking the Ministry to follow the implementation of the new supervisory role of the county. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre promote proposals asking the Government to follow up quality requirements through equivalent pay and employment conditions for private and municipal kindergartens, and to return to the State budget for 2006 with a plan to do so. This proposal shall not be supported by a majority of the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes that issues of collective bargaining must be a relationship between the social partners, but private and public kindergartens should be able to operate on equal terms once equivalent treatment has been phased in. The Labour Party and the Left Party propose that the Executive Director of the Kindergarten should be trained as a pre-school teacher. This proposal shall not be supported by a majority of the Committee. Competence requirements for directors and educational leaders are not necessarily coincident. Kindergartens are organised in different ways. Some are large units, some are small. The tasks of the Management Board may therefore vary in some respects. In order to provide local authorities and other owners with slightly greater flexibility than they currently have, while respecting basic quality considerations, it is proposed to open up to other higher education groups providing child-care and pedagogical competence. The Working Party and SV propose that the Department provide additional provisions on pedagogical staffing and the number of adults per year. a child. This proposal shall not be supported by a majority of the Committee. The government has proposed to continue the regulation on pedagogical staffing, i.e. The standard of education. With regard to the rest of the staff in the kindergarten, the proposal for a new section 18 states that staff must be sufficient to carry out a satisfactory pedagogical activity. This is a continuation of today's provision. SV supports proposals asking the Government to come back to the 2006 budget with additional funds to implement new law on kindergartens and the framework plan. This proposal also does not have a majority. This is a budgetary question to which the Government will come back. The Socialist Left also promotes proposals in which they ask the Government to consider restrictions on the possibility of making dividends on kindergarten. The Christian People's Party believes that kindergarten owners should have the opportunity to calculate a normal compensation for work and capital expenditure in kindergarten. But, of course, we do not want actors who are scoring on good framework conditions and a high level of public funding at the expense of the quality of the offer given to children and parents. We already have good tools to prevent this from happening. The provision on economically equivalent treatment initially gives the municipality an obligation to cover all costs incurred in private kindergartens which are not covered by parental and other government grants. However, the municipality has the right to shorten its operating grant if the nursery has significantly lower staff or compensation of employees per year. annual work than is usual in similar municipal kindergartens, and the owner of the nursery budgets with unfair dividends or compensation for his or her own or related work in the nursery. Unreasonable dividends and compensation of labour means that normal compensation for work and capital expenditure in kindergarten is exceeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e101	The rapporteur spoke in favour of the vote. I'll comment on some of the points where we disagree. First of all, we believe that when we come into a situation where we get full child care coverage, municipalities need to be more able to carry out a comprehensive management of the kindergarten sector. I think we'll get into a completely different situation, at least in many large municipalities, when we get full child care coverage, where we might set a limit on everyone getting a place within a reasonable deadline – let's say one month, three months or what kind of deadline we set. In fact, we are at risk of overcapacity in the kindergarten sector, and we need to ensure that resources are used in the best possible way. In particular, when, in the opinion of the Workers' Party, municipalities are required to grant an individual entitlement to children's playground for all children, it is also important to give municipalities a larger control room. Another question that we have disagreed on throughout this period, and how many, perhaps, had expectations of a government council that itself has the basis of the trade movement, is to provide equivalent pay and employment conditions, including in private kindergartens. We've wanted such a situation as we have in school, where it's clearly said that the conditions should be the same. Especially now reaches 80 pst. the operating costs are to be borne by the public, there is no unreasonable requirement that pay and working conditions be equivalent. We also separate layers of the government parties in terms of competence requirements. We find it strange that the proposition, where there is talk of the need for quality in kindergarten, in a society where we constantly increase our competence and knowledge, is in favour of weakening the requirements for competence in key positions in kindergartens. We think it must be obvious that the day-to-day manager of a kindergarten should have a pre-school teacher background. We also believe that there should be regulations regarding pedagogical manning and the ratio between adults and children. It is not that a general teacher necessarily has the knowledge needed to care for children up to one year of age. There are other educational challenges in relation to children of different age groups, and that's why we also have different education for people going into kindergartens like pre-school teachers, and people going to primary school as general teachers. On the other hand, we are pleased that the entire committee has joined in the call for a plan to raise the level of competence in kindergarten. It must also be an equally important objective in this sector, as in all other areas, to increase the overall knowledge and competence of employees. The fact that several kindergarten assistants can have the opportunity to re-train as pre-school teachers and that people can build on their knowledge and skills is essential. Then we do not go along with SV in terms of limitations in the possibilities of – I also understand from the media the ban on – taking dividends in private kindergartens. In the case of private schools, we have a common desire with the government parties, as long as it lasts, to say no to taking dividends from private schools. It's because we don't have any commercial schools in the private school sector so far. With regard to the private kindergarten arena, however, we already have a very large number of private actors who have invested funds in the kindergarten sector, so that the situation is fundamentally different. We believe that in the middle of a phase in which we fight hard to get full child care coverage and to get more kindergartens built out, it will be very unfortunate to change the framework conditions and create new uncertainties, so we're not on that proposal from SV. Finally, a little bit about Christian purpose paragraphs. Nor have we been associated with SV in the position of removing the Christian purpose paragraph. We believe that this must be seen in the context of the Christian purpose paragraph at school. There are signs that an investigation work will be carried out on how to formulate it. Among other things, several bishops and people from the Church have suggested that we adopt a different wording, a wording that does not support parents in the assignment, but that instead deals with our Christian cultural heritage. It's an exciting work that we'll also participate in. But then we will look at the purpose paragraph in kindergarten and in the schoolwork for the rest of the time. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e120	The representative Trond Giske has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e123	The government’s proposal for new childcare law is timely and enables the sector to meet new societal challenges. Kindergartens are now well-established, important social institutions, and it is therefore of great importance that the legislation facilitates good care, educational quality and local initiative. Today’s and tomorrow’s parents will make high demands on the quality of kindergartens, and the main task of kindergarten will therefore be to assist parents in their child’s education, care and learning. When the Ministry consulted on the proposal for a new childcare law, the involvement was very high from both parents, employees and employee organisations. The hearing notes provided broad and versatile lighting, among other things. of the questions of training requirements for staff, pedagogical density per year. children and the norm for outdoor areas, with several alternative models. When the mandate was to create a law that is better adapted to today's and tomorrow's requirements for kindergartens, it was very positive that models were presented in the consultation draft, which to some extent challenged the existing standards. This made both the consultation round and the hearing opinions particularly interesting and important for the ministry's final work on the law. The right is concerned that municipalities need to have greater influence over their own responsibilities, and the new law ensures the necessary clarification of the role of local authorities in relation to kindergartens. This is, in particular, important in order to facilitate local adaptation and variation. There is a broad consensus that kindergartens are important, and all parties have a policy that focuses on children and the kindergarten sector. Nevertheless, the theme always creates a debate that shows that the parties have different approaches to creating a kindergarten for the future. Thanks to a good interaction between private and public owners and developers, the goal of full child care coverage can be achieved by the end of 2006. The interaction between public and private kindergartens also provides a valuable diversity that gives young children’s parents freedom of choice. Good cooperation between municipalities and private kindergartens is therefore desirable and necessary. It is important for the Right that such coordination should not undermine diversity in the kindergarten sector but contribute to constructive competition. It will ensure the diversity of supply, provide innovation, quality for children and efficient operation. The right is pleased that the law opens up the possibility that non-pre-school teachers may also be relevant to the governance of kindergartens. The requirements for the competence of a pedagogical director and of a pedagogical director are not necessarily coincident. Kindergartens are organised in different ways, and therefore, in some kindergartens, it may be right to employ high school graduates with children’s professional competence other than pre-school education. The right has confidence that all kindergarten owners, public and private, operate in a way that creates quality offers for children and secure jobs for employees. The new Kindergarten Act shows that government parties set high standards of quality in kindergartens. We want the kindergartens to provide the children with both care and a good educational offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e146	Today, when we deal with the changes in the kindergarten law, it should be seen in the light of the major change that is now taking place in Barnehage-Norway. In recent years, only the reform of kindergartens has been concerned, where equal treatment between private and municipal kindergartens, full coverage and maximum prices have been the objectives. Now we're equal to the goal. Yes, in fact, in many areas several of the objectives have already been achieved. Therefore, it is not surprising that the debate is changing, and that children, parents and society will increasingly be concerned with the content and quality of kindergartens. Therefore, we may have new revisions of the Kindergarten Act within a few years. As you can see from the case, the Progress Party does not support increasing awareness of gender equality in kindergartens. Maybe we should have looked at the equality in the hall. It's affordable that there's one man here. He is from the Christian People's Party and also the rapporteur on the matter. But otherwise, we're mostly represented by just women. We agree that the balance of kindergartens is somewhat biased, but the Progress Party believes that it should be up to the individual kindergarten to find methods that are suitable for balancing gender inequalities. Gender quotas and programmes, such as MIB, Men in Kinderhagen, can easily work against their purpose, by not necessarily getting the best skilled job. Nor can we support the comment that it is up to each municipality to base the unit cost model. The Progress Party knows that in order to achieve a real equivalent treatment of kindergartens, whether public or private, whether established in a metropolitan or small town, it is necessary to use the unit cost model. The Progress Party is pleased that the majority continues the Christian purpose paragraph, partly because it is also a Christian purpose provision in the Training Act, but also because it is anchored in Norwegian society. The Progress Party believes that all children have the benefit of learning about different values, without it being either exclusive or contrary to human rights. In the case of freedom of establishment, the Progress Party is very pleased that no restrictions are placed on the right of establishment. Norway is dependent on private kindergartens. These represent the largest proportion of kindergartens in Norway. Should we now put any leads or restrictions on the establishment of private kindergartens, I think we could look far after almost full kindergarten coverage. The occasional desirability and necessity of co-ordination between kindergartens and municipalities does not mean undermining diversity. All – from nature and outdoor children’s gardens to life - are equally necessary to give parents a choice of what is best and most satisfying for their children’s needs. The Progress Party has difficulties in understanding why phase-in of equivalent treatment is being discussed in this case. In our opinion, it should have been discussed in the case of the evaluation of the maximum price, which the Stortinge treated earlier today. With regard to the municipality as a kindergarten authority, the Progress Party believes that the next revision of the law is natural to discuss more issues. Municipalities are entrusted with a number of tasks such as nursery services. At the same time, the municipalities run kindergartens, often in competition with private people. This means that municipalities have several, sometimes conflicting, roles. We believe that now is the time to separate the different roles, so that the exercise of authority is actually unhindered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e167	Kindergarten quality is the most important thing for SV. Kindergartens are an important part of many children’s lives, and kindergartens are a good offer because we have a kindergarten law and a framework plan that ensures quality and a good kindergarten offer in Norway. Kindergartens are the main public service provision for children from zero to six years of age. When 72 p.m. of all children aged 1–5 years had nursery facilities by the end of 2004, and we have kindergarten queues, we know that kindergarten law and framework plan are an important prerequisite for the quality and content of kindergarten. SV will ensure increased quality of the offer. Developing society places new and greater demands on children’s play and development. Kindergartens shall not be a place of storage for children. Kindergartens shall be a qualitatively good educational offer for children under school age. Kindergartens contribute to the development, play, social learning, skills and social inclusion of children. SV will remove the Christian purpose paragraph of the Children’s Court Act. Multicultural Norway is a society with a rich diversity of life, and it may seem exclusive to minorities to have a statutory Christian purpose paragraph. SV believes that kindergartens financed by the public should be life-view neutral. That is why we are voting against Section 1 of the bill. SV will require kindergarten owners to pay and pension conditions for nursery workers, as a condition for getting about 80 pst. public support for kindergarten. It is unacceptable that so many employees who do such an important job in their private kindergartens do not have orderly pay and pension agreements. It is absolutely necessary that we get this in place, so that we get recruited and retain competence in the sector. It is a pleasure that many municipalities around the country make this a requirement. In a survey from Sweden, it is noted that the conditions for children’s development are significantly worse if the group of children joins, having few adults around them. The children learn worse, they become more insecure, and the adults get less understanding of the children. This is important knowledge to take further into account in the kindergarten reform. SV believes that kindergartens should continue to have pre-school teachers as a pedagogical leader, because we believe that pre-school teachers have the best competence for children under six years of age. It is true, as has been said in the previous debate, that there are different kindergartens in this country. Some kindergartens are so small that there is only one leader, and that is the governor. He should, of course, then be trained as a pre-school teacher. We also want the Kindergarten Act to have additional provisions on pedagogical staffing and the number of children growing. Norway has a lower educational density than our neighbouring countries, and we in SV want to increase the number of adults per child. We want so much advice that the other staff in the kindergarten should also be trained as nursery assistants or child and youth workers. SV wishes to draw up a plan for recruitment in the kindergarten sector. Among other things, it is important to recruit more men and nursery workers with a minority background. Kindergarten staff shall be responsible for offering children a well-educated offer and implementing new law on kindergartens and framework plans. There is no funding for this work. SV – together with the Centre PartySee the posts of the representative Eli Sollied Överaas, this page. – therefore proposes the inclusion of additional funds in the 2006 budget for this purpose. SV is pleased that we are getting a majority for our proposals on a plan of assessment of competence in the sector and the monitoring and evaluation of child care activities in asylum recipients, and that this should be included, where appropriate, in the Children's Court Act. We know that children live at receptions for up to three to four years. Many of these children are in childcare services for several hours a day because their parents are at work. These childcare facilities act as kindergartens without being regulated by the Children's Court Act. This is not good enough. Finally, I will address our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e196	The representative of May Hansen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e199	The central party mainly supported the government proposal for the update and adjustment of the Kinderhagelova. When a portion as large as 72 pst. about 15 000 children are on a waiting list and thus want a kindergarten, it is important to have a qualitatively good law that surrounds a supply that so many children benefit from. Good care and pedagogical quality are crucial for childcare to function as a safe social institution for our youngest inhabitants. The parties agree that it is important to facilitate local initiative. We also agreed that the Action Plan for Gender Equality will be continued. It is important to get more men to look for work in this sector, which is highly women-dominated. The Central Party magnifies the Government's proposal to continue the Christian purpose paragraph in Kinderhagelova. We see it as natural that Kinderhagelova complies with the training law, and we believe it is an important value choice that both kindergarten and school have the same value base. So we're very pleased that there are multiples to go on with this paragraph. But the party will also make it clear that the Christian purpose paragraph must not open up to Christian preaching in kindergarten but, as the advocate said, contribute to the child’s knowledge and knowledge of the Christian cultural heritage. And, of course, parents' right to assignment must be fully respected. It is positive that the authorisation obligation is strengthened and that the kindergarten should be a pedagogical offer with qualified staff. It is also good that the Government should strengthen the role of municipalities as children's children. Local authorities are responsible for child care policy, and according to the opinion of the Centre Party, local politicians have the best starting point and the best place to take political decisions that are consistent with the needs of the individual municipality. The centre party has been in favour of the so-called freedom of establishment in the nursery sector. After the kindergarten reform was established in Stortinget, we approach the goal of full kindergarten coverage, and even some municipalities have some overcapacity. If local authorities are to have the real responsibility within the sector, municipalities must also have the opportunity to reject new applications if there is full coverage in a municipality. This would be entirely in line with the fact that municipalities should be responsible for it, and be consistent with their whole-hearted childcare provision. Private kindergartens have our, and are, important actors in the total nursery provision. I want to say it so strongly that without private kindergarten expansion, I believe we had been removed from the goal of full coverage today. The centre party believes that it is right to equalise the pay and work opportunities of private and municipal kindergartens, and we are in agreement with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on a proposal that this should be followed up by the Government in the context of the 2006 budget. With the large amount of public funds going to private kindergartens, one must also be able to demand that employees' rights are well taken care of in the private nursery sector as well. When we have this in Refreshulelova, we also have to be able to have it in Kinderhagelova. Finally, I thought that the representative Hansen referred to a proposal from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The central party is not associated with just the Socialist Left Party on any suggestion in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e220	The new Kindergarten Act should strengthen the prerequisite for the kindergarten to provide children with care and a good educational offer. I am pleased that the Committee broadly supports the legislative proposal. The kindergarten must be designed in the light of the life-exploration of children and the need for play, learning and care. The activities of kindergarten are largely determined by the current view of children and childhood. It is therefore important to ensure adequate competences in kindergarten. Staff are the nursery's most important resource. Training requirements for managers and educators shall ensure knowledge of the development of children and children. The personal and pedagogical skills of employees are essential for the creation of good kindergartens and for the development of childcare facilities in line with the needs of users. Competence is both knowledge and skills and the ability to use them in practice. Competence at all levels is also a prerequisite for quality development. The quality of childcare is therefore at the heart of the process of ensuring and developing the quality of the nursery. I also welcome the support for the proposal for a new and extended content regulation. This provision details the nature of a childcare facility and shall contribute to ensuring that all children receive a fully pedagogical offer irrespective of their place of residence. The content of this provision tells parents what they can expect and specifies the assessment themes for approval and supervision. The content provision underlines the obligation of kindergarten to contribute to good childhood and support and to take into account the personal and cultural background of each child in an increasingly globalised and multiethnic society. The government wants to continue today's Christian purpose paragraph to ensure a valuable uninterrupted line between kindergarten and school. The Christian purpose paragraph must be practised in such a way as to respect parents ’ right of assignment and to avoid any conflict of loyalty between home and kindergarten. Christian purpose must be seen in the context of the other provisions of the law, including: the content provision. The government wants the children's voice to be heard. We therefore propose that the child’s right of participation in relation to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child be enshrined in the Children’s Court Act. In order to ensure some of the most vulnerable children's places in kindergarten, the Government proposes that the right of priority for admission be extended to children on whom child protection has been decided, in addition to children with disabilities. In order to further contribute to ensuring the quality of kindergartens, the Government has also proposed the introduction of administrative supervision. The county is responsible for overseeing the municipality to carry out the tasks assigned to it as a nursery authority. An active and well-functioning supervisory system is also important for the quality of supply, and not least for confidence in the sector. National standards may have a simplistic effect on procedural, authorisation and supervision. The Government therefore proposes to continue the pedagogical norm and an indicative spatial standard. Finally, the quality of the provision of kindergartens must be a measure that can be agreed upon. We believe that the proposal for new childcare law will strengthen the right of young children to safe, good and challenging childcare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e250	I very much agree with what the Council said about the safety of the children. The working party has claimed that it is better to build children than to repair adults. It starts there. Kindergartens are a good and safe place to be for those children who receive nursery services. I have to say that life can be difficult, not least for kids. Anxiety and domestic strife affect the children. The employees of kindergartens are often those who become the best support of their children in life. It's also the ones that discover the wear and tear. They're doing a fantastic job. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that pay and employment conditions for employees must be the foundation of our childcare policy. I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: does not the Council of State feel that it is necessary to require equivalent pay and employment conditions for private and municipal kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e259	I very much agree with the representative that the staff is incredibly important in kindergartens. We need a good and professional staff. With regard to what some of the parties also mentioned in connection with the conclusion of the childcare arrangement, namely good pay and employment conditions for employees, we have also, through the phase-out of the equivalent treatment in kindergartens, arranged – a little after a while, as it says – for private kindergartens to be better able to offer good pay and working conditions to their employees. This, of course, assumes that private kindergartens are still getting better finances, which they have also received. It is gratifying to see that collective agreements with employees are being established more and more in private kindergartens. As we continue to increase transfers to the private sector from 1 August this year, more people will also be able to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e268	This concerns the requirement that directors be a pre-school teacher. There are many different kindergartens in this country, and there have been others here. There are some one-department children's gardens and some two-department children's gardens. What could be the result of the amendment of the law now available is that a departmental nursery will not have the competence of a preschool teacher in his kindergarten if you consider other educational staff. I think this is worrying, because we have a special competence in this country, namely pre-school teachers who have three years of post-secondary education, early childhood education and various fields of competence. It is very important that this competence exists in any nursery. Is not the Council of State concerned that the current amendment of the law will lead to a loss of competence in some kindergartens in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e275	We also have strict requirements for competence in the new Kindergarten Act, both in terms of educational leaders and directors. In the case of controllers, it says: ‘Barnehagen shall have an Executive Director who is trained as a pre-school teacher or other post-secondary school education which confers child-care and pedagogical competence.’; I'm actually thinking the opposite with the representative May Hansen. I think the less kindergartens are, the more natural it will be that it is actually a preschool teacher who is being run, because then he must also be responsible for the entire educational activity. The larger the kindergarten, the more executive tasks in a steering function will be governing. In this case, it might also be that you can have a slightly more flexible steering position. We should not forget that there are high demands. So you're going to have high school, you're going to have pedagogical and pedagogical skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e287	I am pleased that the Council of State has addressed this with pay and working conditions and is equal to municipal and private kindergartens. But when the Council of State says it happens ‘a little by little’, I’m not quite satisfied. The working party doesn't think it's good enough. We believe it can be linked to the approval of kindergartens that the pay and work conditions are in order. The same is true of pedagogical staff — pre-school teachers in all kindergartens. We believe that it can be done part to provide education, so that there are several pre-school teachers. There is a group of people who do a great job, and who may not get paid after that, but they should at least have professional education and skills to work with the adults of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e292	It's almost going to repeat my previous answer, but it's actually so that many of the private kindergartens have already been able to provide good pay and working conditions, in line with the conditions of the employees of the municipal kindergartens. Even more people will get the opportunity when they get 85 pst. of the operating costs incurred by them from their own municipality from 1 August of this year. Tariff agreements are, after all, a relationship between the parties and it is gratifying that more and more private kindergartens enter into collective agreements with the associations concerned. When it comes to pre-school education, we have also looked into whether we will have enough pre-school teachers in the future. In relation to the situation as it is today, we have assessed it so that we have a good educational capacity on pre-school teachers. Of course, it'll depend on how many more we need. We have approx. 30 pst. pre-school teachers in kindergartens today. I think we might need even more in the future. At the last published position in a municipality, which I heard about, 80 applied for one pre-school teaching position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e299	The operation of private kindergartens has been more reasonable because there have been no proper pay and pension agreements for employees. We have a goal that we want more men into kindergartens, and it's clear that you actually have to have pay and working conditions that are good and equal to those in municipal kindergartens, if you're going to believe that men will go into these positions at all. We know that from other professions, for example. from the profession that the state council and I have, the nursing profession. In fact, I wonder whether the Council of State should have a plan for how we're going to manage to recruit men to kindergartens at a completely different level than per. today. Does the Council have any thoughts about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e306	It is possible that the representative is not aware that we have a relatively new action plan on gender equality in kindergartens concerning the recruitment of several men. There we've taken a whole bunch of new grips. Of course, it takes too long to get into everyone. We have a network for men in kindergartens. The people have been given a very special task of managing the action plan. One of the counties has received an additional assignment to organise some projects. It turns out that in those municipalities where political action has been taken and more men are wanted in kindergartens, more men have also been recruited. I refer you to Asker Municipality, which now has 25 pst. men in kindergartens. I also refer to an example from Oslo, where a nursery owner on her own initiative chose to do something about the working environment because she wanted more men in kindergartens. She was able to recruit 50 pst. men in a relatively short time. I also have some other good steps to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e315	No more words have been asked for a line. The speakers given the following are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e321	I had to take the floor to get the opportunity to answer the Council of State. Of course, I am aware that we have an action plan to get men into kindergartens. But I say that it is important that we get equal pay and employment in both private and municipal kindergartens, if we are to get the desired development in kindergartens. I think it is rather sad that in a profession as important as that of a preschool teacher, you have a rather low salary. For more than 60 pst. private kindergartens do not offer them proper pay and pension agreements. It's unreasonable when you do such an important job. I also want to challenge the Council of State a little in relation to the private kindergartens that take out large millions of profits, while other kindergartens so far do their business. SV has submitted a proposal asking the Government to consider restrictions on the possibility of making dividends on kindergarten. What I'm asking is if the Council of State, when we get full child-care coverage, thinks that you should consider getting the same rules as for incubators. Finally, I would like to say that SV wants all children to have a legal right to a nursery place. We want to introduce it from 1 August 2007. Then we're assuming that we have almost full coverage. We want children to have a nursery place on the same footing as a school place, because we think kindergartens are part of the children's education course. We've also signaled that we actually want to move kindergartens to another department, so that we get education and kindergartens in the same department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e334	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e350	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e355	The Aquaculture Act is based on today's Breeding Act, which is almost 20 years old. There are important changes that are currently being made to the new aquaculture law, which replaces the current farming and grazing laws. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation on the Aquaculture Act. The Committee believes that it is important for coastal Norway value creation to facilitate a sustainable marine industry, consisting of profitable and resilient companies with a high degree of innovation and innovation. The importance of promoting the profitability and competitiveness of the aquaculture industry in the context of sustainable development is of particular importance. The objectives are pursued but the focus on how to achieve the objectives is changed. The Act proposes simplified application procedures for the establishment of all types of aquaculture. It's positive. I expect that the various parties will take their views on the law, but I am happy to note that the Government's proposals will be adopted today. The development of the aquaculture industry has been very extensive. This industry has grown enormously, and there have been major changes in ownership, structure, size, location, production technology, etc. Some issues have disappeared over time, while others have arisen. It is therefore important that the law facilitates the development and optimisation of the value added potential of the aquaculture industry. The Christian People's Party believes that aquaculture will become a more diverse concept through the establishment of activities of hitherto unused production opportunities, and for which the law also makes good use. Breeding has become more a part of a global market, with major competition challenges. It is also one of the largest and most important export industries we have. We need conditions and conditions that are competitive and that enable us to better meet the challenges facing the industry. The competitive situation is demanding, but in return, the potential is high. An illustration of this is the salmon case and the salmon measures taken by the EU against Norway. The Norwegian farming industry is efficient and competitive, without any State aid. There is a close dialogue between the authorities and the salmon industry in the fight against anti-dumping duties on Norwegian salmon. This believes the Christian People's Party is important. As regards environmental status, there is reason to point out that the management of the Norwegian aquaculture industry in several areas has led to the regulation of the environmental impact of the industry. But new challenges can still emerge. In the case of salmon, it is important to ensure anti-skid measures. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is working with the industry in this matter and has taken the initiative to reduce the number of escaped farmed salmon by introducing a certification scheme for equipment. With regard to the continuation of the number limit for salmon and trout, one, in addition to traditional applicant competition, will today provide additional possibilities for the authorities to grant an award following a somewhat simpler model than today. All qualified persons must comply with the requirements laid down by the Ministry and may make a geographical distribution of the permits. In this way, regional considerations may continue to be taken into account in the allocation policy. Value creation is generally greatest when individual traders themselves have the freedom to offer their products and services in competition with other operators. In a normal situation, individual performers will have a separate responsibility for regulating production and supply in relation to the market. At the same time, we are aware that Norwegian farming industries live in a very demanding and difficult commercial policy reality that requires good and coherent cooperation with Norwegian authorities. In this situation, we think it is right to allow the authorities to regulate the production of salmon, trout and rainbow trout, if one considers it necessary. The Committee further asks the Ministry to explore more specific alternative ways of giving the farming industry greater freedom of action to cooperate. These may be voluntary measures for which the industry considers it appropriate to cooperate, such as: reduced release of smolt. Once again, based on the development of a profitable industry, the Christian People's Party sees the need to legislate on the right to transfer permits and to provide opportunities for mortgages in all kinds of aquaculture permits. The consequence is increased freedom of action and greater predictability, and it is not immaterial in terms of industry’s access to capital by increasing the creditworthiness of aquaculture companies. When transferring pledged aquaculture permits, both rights and obligations can be transferred, for example: be of a regional policy nature. Finally, SV and the Central Party have a proposal, no. 3, in the setting, which I hope they will turn into a transmission proposal. The Christian People's Party will not give any signals about new concessions now, based on the situation the industry is in. But if things change in the long term, the Christian People's Party does not refuse to look at measures that stimulate municipalities and regions more to facilitate aquaculture. So we don't want to close the door to measures that can give municipalities and/or regions income from this, as an alternative to the state concession fee. I take up the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e391	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e394	The breeding industry is important, not only for Norway but also for the EU. On Wednesday, we could read in the newspapers about the fresh report by SINTEF and FAFO drawn up on behalf of LO on the importance of Norwegian salmon for the EU. That means not only good food, but also a lot of jobs. In addition to 25 000 workers in the EU, it is dependent on an industry that is very important, including for Norway. So what does this have to do with the aquaculture law? Well, for me, this is proof that we need to have an industry that is conscious of its responsibilities, that has good terms and that is regulated by a good law. The rapporteur has given us a thorough review of the bill. I would therefore like to focus on a few of the areas in the law. First, the issue of permission to introduce individual labelling. When the Storting in its time treated St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002 Clean and rich seas, the Storting discussed issues related to the labelling of farmed salmon. The majority of the Committee then stated in a joint note that: ‘The majority refers to a project in the Ministry of Fisheries in order to identify an appropriate, rational labelling of farmed fish and assumes that the project leads to concrete proposals for such a system and that the industry is required to carry out such labelling as soon as practicable. The labelling must be carried out in an efficient and ethically sound manner. Labelling shall have both general preventive effect and permit the localisation of facilities from which fish have escaped. The majority point to the possibility of using such labelling as a quality stamp for foreign buyers.» This said a broad majority a few years ago. We can see that methods have not yet been developed that meet the requirements we set at that time and that this is still under way. In addition, both the industry itself and the authorities have since introduced stricter requirements for rearing facilities, propeller protection on boats used in the industry, and equipment certification schemes. Although reports show that escape is still a problem, perhaps especially in some parts of the country, we from the Workers' Party have chosen this time not to propose that a law on labelling be introduced. It is now that the labelling of salmon is not a measure against escape, but it will be possible to locate where the salmon comes from, and then go into action if there are breeders who are not conscious of their responsibilities. Famous farmed salmon is a threat to our wild salmon strains, and the knowledge we have gradually acquired regarding the introduction of ‘foreign’ species shows that it is important to combat escape. Both the World Wildlife Foundation and the organisation Norse Lakseelver have taken this up, and they show, among other things. to a report published by the World Wildlife Foundation on 12 May of this year, which shows that escaped farmed salmon weakens the wild salmon strains in Norway. So from the Labour Party we have chosen to put our trust in the industry and the authorities and the work they do. At the same time, we believe that we should focus on continuing research into the possibilities for identification. Then we also hope that such sad things that we have experienced in the last part of the Alta region will be solved, and that we do not have such things that neither the industry nor the authorities are responsible for. In addition, we are pleased to focus on the environment in this legislative proposal submitted by the Ministry. The bill also provides for a simplification of the allocation process for salmon and trout. We mainly agree with the measures proposed, but with a restriction: we do not want one to make use of lottery drawing, bidding rounds or auctioning. We believe that this can be price driven, and that it could unluckily limit participation. It is sad if it is the economy to limit participation, if there are otherwise well qualified stakeholders. I would also like to wish the industry good luck in the fight against the EU and the issue with which we are now struggling. These are sad things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e429	The rapporteur has presented the Committee's work in an excellent manner and has concluded that the Government will have a majority in favour of its proposal to amend and merge laws. The majority are achieved with varying support in Stortinget in this matter as in, praiseworthy enough, some other issues, and I believe that today's debate is a contribution to removing some heavy backpacks from the poles to the Norwegian fishing industry, and making life easier for those who want to participate actively and participate in developing Norwegian aquaculture and Norwegian fishing industry further. It's necessary, because even though we're absolutely the best in the world in this area – we're the largest, we have the best product, we deliver the best goods, we have the best knowledge, the best quality and the best technology – we see that there are still many challenges that remain to be able to drive this industry up to the level that we love to claim that we have the potential to. In this way, today's case is very important, and I also think it's interesting to see how fish on the stock exchange now really have become balls that you notice. Large, heavy Norwegian investors are now entering the large and active Norwegian companies with international branches. The fact that representatives from some of these industries are involved and criticise the Norwegian authorities for their handling of the conflict we have with the European Union is not suitable to understand, and I can hardly understand that this is a contribution to helping Norwegian aquaculture industry, and Norwegian salmon industry in particular, up and down. But this was not my main point in today's case. As the rapporteur has pointed out, it is important that we legislate on the right to transfer permits and to provide opportunities for mortgage access in this industry as in all other industrial activities. It allows for greater opportunities for capital, for knowledge, which there will always be a need to develop in this industry. Then I'm glad that the department is given the necessary authority to develop alternative strategies in the area of freedom of action, which go to organisation, without talking about or organizing so-called POs. We should also have sufficient experience in the political work to understand that we must not do any of the world's things that could provoke competition authorities in Europe, nor the traffic rules that the WTO has in this area. Finally, I would warn against the strong comments that the opposition parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, have on the focus on further investigation of individual labelling. I think that the conclusions that the Brand Committee has put on the table should be more than enough to remove any conceivable proposals that are going to go in the direction of individual labelling. One thing is that the costs it will charge to Norwegian salmon industry will become astronomical — there will be a larger estimate of Norwegian salmon industry than, for example, Norwegian salmon industry. the current criminal duty, or at least in the vicinity of the amounts of the current criminal duty represented for the Norwegian salmon industry. It is concluded by not recommending the individual labelling of salmon. It's expensive, it's practically problematic, and economically we're talking about approx. NOK 2 per year. the total cost of the project, i.e. the total cost of the project. 400 million. kr, which opens up the possibility of applying Norwegian salmon. This strongly warns the Right against. There can hardly be any contribution to helping Norwegian salmon industry in further development towards the market that is, after all, to live on and safely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e442	The Progress Party welcomes the revision and modernisation of the legislation and framework conditions covering the sea grazing and farming sectors. The industry has had an impressive rapid development and is a good example of how private businesses provide safe and profitable jobs along our coast. However, today’s global competitive situation requires an overall assessment of the industry’s conditions, which means that a necessary freedom to adapt to changes in the competitive situation is granted. We are committed to providing the industry with the best possible basis for further growth and development by establishing internationally competitive framework conditions with opportunities for expansion and value creation with breeding of new species and a greater degree of further processing. The legislative proposal involves some liberalisation of the framework related to industry and a normalisation of framework conditions compared to other industries in Norway. It is emphasised that the statutory audit will facilitate the professionalisation of the structure of a market where competition is strong, but there is no real reason to maintain a particularly strong regulation in the case of salmon and trout farming, as we see it. The propulsion party is in principle opposed to maintaining an old-fashioned concession system in the aquaculture industry, with a number limit. This is an unnecessary regulation, which can hinder further growth and can affect many coastal communities that will benefit from a more liberal value creation policy. We want to abolish this concession system and replace it with permits where there are clear boundaries as to what reasons it is relevant to focus on, such as environmental and veterinary considerations. The Progress Party disagrees with the emphasis on protection to such an extent at the expense of economic development. The framework conditions must be based on the market situation in order to exploit the growth potential of the aquaculture industry and to provide a basis for the further development of new farming species. We also believe that the industry must be able to develop in the geographical areas most suitable for it and that a policy for protecting the coastal zone must take this into account. It is positive that the legislative proposal places so much emphasis on efficiency considerations and that a certain deregulation will be introduced which will make the industry much more adaptable in a competitive situation. The aquaculture industry has a major impact on the coast and district of Norway, and there are many opportunities for growth and new jobs if the industry is given the freedom to take advantage of the country. It is then necessary to lay down framework conditions which take into account the efficient development of the industry that comes first. Furthermore, coastal communities must be given the opportunity to define themselves an active industrial policy for their communities. At that time, overall assessments of growth and protection should be carried out locally, and not as at present through key requirements. In this context, the Progress Party will highlight the importance of distinguishing business and district policies. There are competitive framework conditions for industries that will provide the best district policy by creating new businesses and jobs in the districts. Increasing international competition means that we need to provide the industry in Norway with framework conditions that are in line with what our main competitors have. We must not impose any special nordic restrictions or regulations that are detrimental to the development of something that could be a continuing growth industry for the country and many Norwegian coastal communities. In several areas, the law implies a development in the right direction by normalising and deregulating framework conditions. At the same time, however, a number of unnecessary and restrictive regulations are being passed on, particularly those relating to salmon and trout. The Progress Party will fully normalise the industry’s framework conditions in relation to other Norwegian industries. By removing the concession system and using local land management, the industry will be able to make real use of the growth potential. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e465	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e468	Let me start by saying that I found it positive that the Council of State has had two — at least one and a half — open ears in the hearing and has recorded some of the recordings that have come into the hearing, for example. recalling that the purpose paragraph is to have a clause on ‘within the framework of sustainable development’ and that a proposal for a prohibition on the breeding of species in the future has been made. It seemed to me to be a good change in relation to what was the government's original draft law. After the case-speaker's posts, I'm just going to focus on some of the things that we from SV's point of view are different, because that's a good part that we're a few about. We propose, among other things: a legal secret for individual labelling. This is in line with the recommendations of both the Ministry of the Environment, the Sameting, the DN, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Food Safety at the hearing. We believe that one today has not become aware of what kind of methods are best suited, does not prevent us from taking a place in the law that one should be able to implement such a requirement in the eye-blind one has a proper form of marking. On the contrary, we believe that this home is a positive signal that in the moment we have sufficiently developed methods, we implemented such a kind of requirement. It must still be a goal that one as fast as is practicable should carry out individual labelling in the farming industry, we think from the SV's point of view. We oppose the proposals in relation to allocation procedures for lottery and auctioning. I have noticed that it is stated in the proposition that ‘social interests stop by using the area for aquaculture and by operating it properly’. But from SV's point of view, we're busy keeping track of some kind of ownership regulation. What you call a candidate contest, with which someone jokes about and calls'sex competition', actually has a purpose compared to being able to find the most suitable concession holder. I hear that a move of focus from whoever drives, to how it is driven, but I just want to remind you that in the last week we got a case that the head office of Fjord Seafood is now moving from Brønnøysund to Oslo. It is clear that social interests are about something far more than where aquaculture production actually takes place. Fortunately, society has much greater interest in farming than it did. We also disagree that we should be given the freedom to transfer and pledge aquaculture rights. This is a form of deregulation that, from the SV's point of view, fears will lead to increased capital pressure and investment needs in the industry, and we are particularly concerned about the impact of district policy on such a proposal. We note hearings from NTNU, where it says that the consequences have not been assessed, but this proposal will undoubtedly have significant negative consequences. We have also noticed that the Finnish Fisheries Directorate believes that this favors capital-intensive breeders and loses the industry for equity, just as we point out from the SV's side. From SV's point of view, we are concerned that farming is an industry in which production takes place in local communities. We would therefore like to replace state concession fees with local land charges, differentiated by type of farming, which is the case with the municipality, and we propose this with the Centerpartie. I think it's a little special when one in the proposition argues that because the consideration was too high, no one would have applied for the announced concessions in Finnmark, and therefore an auction or lottery must be used as an award method. In my opinion, that argument is an argument against a State concession fee and not an argument for lottery or auctioning as an award method. It's a paradox, which one might have thought about turning the other way from the department's side. On the SV side, we have opposed the suspension of the feed quota system, i.e. At least we've expressed ourselves against it, because it's not something that Stortinget has been heard about. We've also disagreed with the last set of concessions. We are aware that regulation is necessary due to market, environmental and district considerations, and are clear in our view that we want to reintroduce the feed quota as a form of production regulation. When the committee was in Scotland, we all had a little "out of the body" experience when we met Scottish breeders who owed us to use the oil fund to subsidize Norwegian breeders. Clearly, the trade war in which we are engaged confirms the old victory that nothing is as cohesive as a common external enemy. Now I see media reports that there might be a little fire in the rose camp anyway. We're concerned that there's actually not just big players in this industry. We want to use ownership regulations, we want to use the law to stimulate local ownership and profitability in the industry. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that we have on our own or together with others in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e494	The representative of Åsa Elvik has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e497	Given that the old law is from the childhood of the farming industry, it is both affordable and sensible that the Minister for Fisheries has carried out both a modernisation and a clean-up of the old law. There has been a need for change, and it is clear that it is also necessary to change the law in a direction that takes into account the fact that there are new species now on the road, to a greater extent than has been the case in the past. It is an industry that has had an adventurous development, and Norwegian farming must be said to be one of the world’s most cost-effective breeding industries. But not only that, there's significantly less disease in the industry. There is a lower feed consumption, and at the top of it all, there is an industry that still has great potential for development. Over the ten years we have been in farming in Norway, it has undergone significant restructurings and consolidations. Around the millennia shift, there was considerable access to capital. There was great optimism in the industry, and there was a high price of concessions. The downturn that followed was dramatic for many of those who mainly financed their concession purchases, and we've seen the aftermath of this for years after the big purchases around the millennial shift. It turned out that it was actually the small and medium-sized, well-run plants with local anchoring that were best able to operate through the difficult period that we had here – enterprises that had not spent million dollars buying concessions, but that had concentrated on operating in a proper way the concessions that had been granted from the state. The centre party believes that there should still be a strong local anchoring in the farming industry. We are therefore opposed to some of the proposals that the Government has put forward here, among others. concessions may be granted through the auctioning principle. That means that there will be an award where price is crucial, and not other criteria, which may well be so important, as we have seen many examples of in the years that have passed. It is in this area that the Government goes too far in the proposal. Modernisation does not necessarily mean throwing waste on what has been good with the old law and has shown that this industry is one of the best developments in Norwegian business in such a short time. That's why we also say no to the free movement and pledge of concessions. I am not able to join the unilateral tribute to what is now happening on the stock exchange, which Ivar Kristiansen expresses. I think there are other issues in the breeding industry than the focus on stock exchange prices and the purchase of listed companies that will be crucial for development. The fact that large players with head offices in other countries, such as taxes to other countries, who have a larger and larger share of their activity in other countries, are now 50 pst. owner of one of Norway's largest companies, and today's edition of Today's Business expresses ambitions to purchase further, may be good, but it may also mean that we see the same thing as we have seen with Fjord Seafood, who has now decided to move the head office from Brønnøysund to Aker Brygge. It can quickly be a move of head office, and therefore activities in important areas, out of the country, which I do not believe Ivar Kristiansen would rather want. Since it is Friday, I am going to be kind, but it is also not right that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party want to impose costs on this industry in the hundreds of reminiscences class in relation to labelling, as Ivar Kristiansen says. SV is on its own about a proposal to introduce an authorisation for labelling. What the three parties say in their remark is that it is important to focus on escape, and after the episode we have seen in the Altafjord, where a breeder has been subjected to sabotage, and himself is completely innocent of what has happened, with great consequences both for the breeder and, in the worst case, for the situation in the Altafjord, one should show some humility in relation to this situation. It is necessary to focus on it, both by the authorities and by the individual breeders, and that is the point of the comment that we are able to make. All parties must be involved in this, and it is not a matter of unilaterally imposing heavy costs on the industry. At the end of the day, a unanimous committee also asks for a compensation scheme to be assessed in the event of a culling. There are breeders – and this is something that may primarily affect small farmers – who have been ordered to slaughter, both legitimately and possibly unwarranted. But no matter what the cause of this, it imposes great economic costs on industry and on individual operators. In any case, an assessment by the Ministry should be carried out as to whether, in the same way as in agriculture, the State can be involved and take part in the financial responsibility in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e513	I am very pleased with the broad consensus within the Committee on the framework for the further development of the aquaculture industry. First of all, the law is a follow-up to the big message The blue field, where the Government also broadly agreed that it is necessary to shift the focus from primary production to a more market and consumer perspective. Secondly, the law shall promote the profitability and competitiveness of the aquaculture industry in the framework of sustainable development and contribute to coastal value creation. Thirdly, since the mid-1980s the aquaculture industry has undergone a major development, as was also the case in previous speakers, and prospects for the potential of the marine sector require a high rate of change to be expected in the years to come. With this background step, the Government has considered it important for the industry to have an up-to-date law setting a framework for business and also taking into account important and fundamental recognition. The first is that the industry’s profitability and competitiveness are what create values in the districts. Coastal value creation depends on the efficient operation of businesses and thus contribute to the community through jobs and economic profits. It's more important how the business is run than who runs it. At the same time, it is possible to pursue regional policy objectives, among others. through the granting of authorisations. The second recognition is that at the moment that consumers choose Norwegian fish, value creation takes place. Therefore, the legislation and other framework conditions for the aquaculture industry and the marine sector must also take account of such considerations. The third recognition is that the industry has a separate responsibility for the environment within the framework set by society. A good environment is an important prerequisite for profitable operation. Enterprises are therefore, of their own interest, heavily concerned with environmentally friendly production. The proposal for a new aquaculture law continues the responsibility of the industry for the environment and facilitates the further development of environmental measures. My impression is that this industry is very concerned about. The fourth recognition is that the aquaculture industry must be an inclusive industry, i.e.: facilitating the industry to be an inclusive industry which does not run counter to other users’ interests in the coastal zone. It is therefore important for the development of the industry to balance the establishment and operation of the industry so that the industry and other users of the coastal zone are adapted to each other. A tool for this is available in the currently pending legislative proposal. The fifth recognition is that the industry is struggling with what it sees as a complex and comprehensive regulatory framework, and is asking for simplification. The legislative proposal is a clear simplification and more effective procedure, which will benefit the industry. It is very positive that the Committee mainly supports these five pillars, namely profitability and competitiveness, market focus, environment, use of the coastal zone and effective management as a basis for further development and growth in the aquaculture industry. The proposals – and I believe that this is an extremely important success criterion – have also been widely welcomed in the general consultations with business organisations, environmental organisations and other stakeholders in the aquaculture industry. Of course, I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind all the key elements of the new law. This is important because the law thus provides predictable framework conditions. Predictability and long-termity are also key prerequisites for addressing the industry’s competitive situation outside. In this context, one can only refer to the struggle that the industry is facing, together with the authorities, in order to ensure market access under conditions that allow us to take out the competitive advantage of an efficient industry and to reject the unfair accusations directed against Norwegian industry from the EU. It is an overall industry that, together with the authorities, should put up with that struggle. There are things that suggest that in the industry you should now think twice about, if it's appropriate to take that fight, with the division that you can read about in the media. Moreover, I refer to the Committee's position, which deals with several issues and which have been addressed by several speakers. Of course, I will follow up in the usual way, according to what I have said in correspondence, the individual elements and proposals that have been promoted there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e546	In the summary of the main content of the proposition, we can read the following: «In the extension of the phase-out of ownership management, it is proposed to introduce access to transfer and lease of permits. Deregulation of ownership requirements in combination with the right to transfer and pledge will, in the Ministry's opinion, normalise industry in relation to other industries and make industry more adaptable to meet future challenges.» Deregulation is therefore an argument for normalizing the industry relative to another type of industry. It may be dangerous to put the Council of State on the mind, but I wonder if this is a two-stage rocket. Is the next time the Council of State intends to normalise the traditional fishing industry in relation to other types of industry in order to improve the capacity of the traditional fishing industry to meet future competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e558	I thank you for the idea of the representative Elvik, but I think that the representative is making the general loss that too many people are doing, that is, putting an equal sign between the traditional fishing industry and the farming industry. The farming industry is much more an industrial production and must have a law linked to the promotion of industrial production. Transferring the traditional fisheries legislation and the fisheries regulations to the farming industry is a wrong track, so I hope the representative Elvik will not pursue such a bad idea. It is also the case that, in normalising industry and adapting the legislation to industrial production, it is particularly important to have framework conditions that make financial institutions or investors think this is interesting. The more restrictions we impose, and the less security investors, whether banks or private investors, get for their investments, the less interesting the industry is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e565	The rapporteur invited the SV and the Central Party to convert proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal. So this is the proposal to replace the State concession fee with an area charge for municipalities. The rapporteur's reason was that the Christian People's Party was not opposed to having an assessment of this proposal, because, among other things, it did. could provide incentives to municipalities to promote economic development, which is also the intention of the proposers of this proposal. I think it is positive that at least one of the government parties has this proposal for consideration, so I would like to hear the Fisheries Minister's view on the proposal before we decide on how to deal with it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e572	With long experience from Stortinget, also as a representative, I can well admit that a proposal that is being voted down has relatively little value, but having a transmission makes it of course to be followed up from the Government. Should it be a transmission, I will of course take that transmission and pursue the proposal, which is a continuous assessment, because it is not a new idea to replace the State concession fee with an area charge to the municipalities. Of course, we are going to follow up on proposals that are adopted in one form or another in Stortinget, but I have to see if there is a transmission or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e579	The council's response to me was reassuring. The challenge is not that this is an idea we could have come up with. This is an idea that the Council of State itself could have come up with. We're concerned that the farming industry has a social function far beyond just making production defensive, as mentioned in the proposition. We're concerned that the farming industry is actually an industry that is integrated into some communities, and that seems to be such an important function. But, as I said, the answer was very reassuring. The council has not intended to come up with that idea, so he'll just forget that I've seen it all along. I have another question. Both the Norwegian Maritime Association and the FHL Farm have spoken out. NSL indicates that one is against both the free transfer and the use of auction. FHL Marine issues auctioning very much in its consultation response to the Council of State. Is this what the Council of State intends to listen to when it comes to choice of allocation form?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e590	I think we should first of all hold on to the fact that the farming industry is and will be a district industry. That's where we have the areas. That's where we have the ability to run this industry in many ways. Then what we from the Government say is that it is more important to ensure that this industry operates properly than who runs it. It's capital-intensive, and it's competence-intensive. It also requires market power in order to operate. This law opens up to them degrees up to it in a completely different way than the old law. In this context, the award criteria are also a not insignificant element. Through this law, we open up additional possibilities for allocation. There is still full opportunity under the law to take territorial considerations. It will be up to the Council of State – whoever it may be that will be in the future. But for many years I will also pay attention to the regional policy considerations as well as to the auction and other forms of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e599	I thank the Council of State for making me aware that there is a difference between voting a proposal and transmitting it. Now I have five meeting days left of my 12 years at Stortinget, and I have such a sense of self that I am aware that there are many things I do not know. But that's exactly what I had discovered. My question was therefore not whether there was a difference between submitting the proposal and getting it down, but my question was whether the Council of State could give its assessment of such a proposal in the light of what the rapporteur from one of the government parties said in his main speech, namely that this was a fairly good idea, which she would ask for an in-depth assessment of. Of course, this is important, because first a government concession fee is introduced, where those who offer these concessions and buy concessions have to pay a high price for them, you cannot just come and say that you should have a municipal land tax on this. So I'd like to hear how the Council of State assesses the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e606	I thank the representative, Mr Enoksen, for sharing his self-esteem with the Stortinget. We did not propose to introduce an area tax that would be included as part of a municipal income. It is announced that the Government has not considered it an appropriate instrument. When, after twelve years at Stortinget, the representative asked me in a reply to make a ‘in-depth assessment’ of such a proposal, I asked if he wanted to have it, or if there was more to keep a political discussion going. However, I assume that the representative, Mr Enoksen, agrees that a thorough assessment that is more thorough than what we have done in the bill is not possible in a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e615	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1032]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e636	Since I do not have the long experience of some other participants in today's fisheries debate, I should stick strictly to the matter. What this matter concerns is a change in the Export Act. It is a unanimous committee in favour of the adaptations proposed by the Ministry. The amendments proposed relate in particular to two aspects. One is a change in the rules on the authorisation of exporters, i.e. a simplification of current practice. The other thing is about converting the fish export sample into a 100 pst. State-owned limited liability company. The fish export selection now becomes an independent company and does not become directly subordinate to the ministry, even though the ministry will be the institution to which the new limited liability company is to deal. The amendments will primarily imply that the Share Act applies to the company, even if the Committee assumes that the company will continue in many ways as today. These changes take into account the dramatic change in the Committee on Fish Exports since its establishment in 1991, with five employees, to be a company today with nearly 50 employees. It has become that of the institutions in Norway with the highest export skills of all, regardless of industry and industry, and it is represented in a large number of countries in the world. This is not a major change either by the Department or the Committee, but a necessary adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e649	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Footing, see page 1038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e662	The Odelstinget should then be ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e670	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 3 and 4, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e729	The President will first vote on the second paragraph of Section 1. The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e973	For the second paragraph of this paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, under proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: Barnehagen shall have an Executive Director who is trained as a pre-school teacher.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1020	There is an aberrant proposal, under proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 18 of the last paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry shall issue supplementary regulations on pedagogical staffing and the number of adults per child.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1127	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1137	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1152	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1160	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3 by Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, from Åsa Elvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1263	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 of the Aquaculture Act is replaced by the following: [[aquaculture law]] § 4 Requirements for authorisation of aquaculture The Ministry may authorise aquaculture in accordance with Sections 6 and 7. [[aquaculture permit]] Aquaculture permits may be transferred to a new legal entity after approval by the Ministry. The rental of aquaculture permits is not permitted. The Ministry may, in exceptional cases, derogate from the rental ban.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1331	Here the Progress Party has announced that it wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1361	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1379	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 7d of the Aquaculture Act shall be replaced by the selection of qualified applicants according to the priority criteria set out in point (c), including drawing, etc.; and’;» [[aquaculture law]] The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1404	Here the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1476	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 10 of the Aquaculture Act is replaced by the following:The Ministry may, in individual decisions or regulations, lay down detailed provisions to ensure environmentally sound aquaculture, including requiring the labelling of aquatic organisms and prohibiting the release of alien organisms.’ [[aquaculture law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1630	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1988	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e1998	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e2111	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e2121	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10-lower.ana.ud1347e2132	There is no record.
