ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e28	Requests for leave to attend the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee in Budapest are received from the representative André Kvakkestad on 18 and 19 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e46	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e65	Before we start dealing with the issues on today's map, the president will draw attention to a matter that was dealt with in the Stortinges meeting last week, Thursday, May 12. Case No. 6 on the agenda for 12 May, and this is a proposal submitted by the Odelstinget. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the appropriate return after the examination of the notified notification of the power and democracy investigation with an assessment of the possible incorporation of the UN Convention on Women’s Rights into the Law on Human Rights.’ The proposal was adopted. Since the said notification has no longer been notified but is currently being dealt with in the Storting, the President asks for the consent of the Storting to withdraw the words ‘the alert’ from the decision. – There have been no objections to the President’s proposal, and it is therefore deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e94	On Friday, the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erna Solberg Council Per-Cristian Fossstatsråde Morten Andreas Meyer The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e113	I would like to ask the Mayor a question. NTNU analyses show that the most effective municipality in Norway operates two and a half times more efficiently than the least efficient. The survey shows that in primary schools, some municipalities produce up to 2.4 times as many school services as the most deprived municipalities. It is estimated in the analysis that costs in School-Norway can be reduced by 14 pst. without impairing student performance. It is claimed that only this will amount to SEK 4.5 billion in annual savings. In care and care, the differences are even greater. The analyses are also very clear that the small municipalities are the least effective. We know that many initiatives and measures have been taken. My question is now: what does the government do further?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e120	NTNU’s study is part of the work we are doing just to get better grips on the possibilities of making arrangements for the municipal sector where opportunities for efficiency gains can be seen in different sectors and how to obtain that efficiency gain. So it's found that there's a pretty big opportunity to operate more efficiently. What we don't have so far are the good instruments for how we're going to be able to turn that knowledge into a policy that's picking up these gains, without going at the expense of quality. This is the further work we do to get this well documented. Some of these are political choices. You can, for example: choose a school structure or other structure that is less effective because it is a local political desire. It's okay for me, but then you have to say that you have chosen to use the resources less efficiently because you have chosen to set some other values higher. It's important to me that we have knowledge of what the results are of our own choices. It contributes to this kind of investigation, although I think we have a bit to go before we're ashore just to find the completely operational solutions. What, then, contributes to less efficiency? Well, there are several things in the summary. Among other things, if there is little political capacity, if there is partial fragmentation in a local government, it is difficult to achieve more efficiency. There is no doubt that much money is less efficient, according to this survey. Now it is not the small municipal structure that is primarily drawn forward, but the small municipalities have less money than the others. Then, in my opinion, it is an interesting observation that a large socialist share of local government contributes to less efficiency, and it does not surprise me. It is very often the case that there is no need to look at any measures that can contribute to improved efficiency in the municipal sector, as they are interlinked, among other things. to the professional interests of the Municipal Spectrum.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e129	I have also recorded the same thing as the Council of State, that a large party fragmentation and high social participation in local government is linked to low efficiency. What the Council of State refers to in terms of the competence we are now going to acquire to find the right tool is nothing new. The Schei Committee from 1947-48, the Christiansen Committee, Rattsø I and Rattsø II, division of tasks, power investigation, Power Selection, District Commission – all these investigations have pointed in the same direction. Is it not now that we are standing trampling and are not going to create a more efficient and rational public structure, especially with regard to the municipal structure? I will not mention the county council in this connection, because the council and I agree that it must disappear. But my question to the Council of State is simply: are there now any new cards in the sleeve to make progress in a new structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e136	Then we'll see if the state councils have cards in their sleeves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e139	I think the representative Sandberg is now putting too much similarity between the municipal structure and the efficient use of the resources. It is that the biggest problem of small municipalities, in my opinion, is the competence problem they have in a complicated public everyday life, and we have to make good offers, not least to the weakest, children in child protection, those who are under psychiatric treatment, the mentally retarded, and then we have not least a complicated and difficult construction treatment. All these are areas where it is almost impossible to assume that municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants, for example. shall be capable of having broad enough competence. But it is not certain that it is synonymous with more economic efficiency. I don't think we can say from this survey that the small-scale question is the most important criterion. We come to Stortinget – that's the plan of the Government – next spring with a plan for a discussion about the municipal structure. Then Stortinget will have a discussion about what you want with the municipalities, and what they want with the municipal structure in the future. Then we will also present our thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e146	There will be two follow-up questions – first Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e149	This is an area where there seems to be a lot of distance between those who make the different surveys and what one focuses on in the individual municipality. It's my sincere impression that there are many local populaces of different party colors who are concerned about providing a better care for the elderly where people live, rather than centralizing care, who are concerned about giving a good school and kindergarten where people live, and thus contribute to living communities and that many young people escape long schooling, and that many others escape long distances. My question is what the Council of State is now looking at: Will it focus more on quality than it has now done, so that what is in focus is a more dignified care and a good school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e155	I have been concerned with the quality of the municipal services from a long time before I became a municipal minister. I am concerned that we, as politicians, should make choices for what is political choice, where we use values other than quality and efficient use of resources. I think it is absolutely legitimate for the local government to say that you want to spread settlements in your municipality and that you want a wide range of services. But then they spend their money on it instead of raising the care factor for the individual, instead of giving more lessons. You don't have to wrap away the local policy choices that are actually made, that help you have a less efficient structure and get less quality, and then you come to the next round and you say that it's because the government is giving too little money. It's local policy choices that you sometimes have to take responsibility for, and that can be right based on what people in the municipality want. But then you also have to take responsibility for the fact that you have chosen something. I am concerned that the municipalities should know more about quality and how they get quality. That is why we have implemented a number of measures to shed light on this, which I do not have time to address right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e162	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e165	I want to challenge the Council of State's view of learning in such a report, where one claims that one can dramatically reduce expenditure in education and achieve the same learning effect. Clearly, there is a particular view of learning and knowledge dissemination behind such a report. My follow-up to the Council of State is then: Does she agree with the view of learning that is behind this report, that there is something instrumental, something mechanical, that we can achieve by, for example, bringing students together in large groups, and that we can have the same effect as small groups, where students are with relatively many adults, thus creating a good learning environment and a good basis for learning? So my question is: does the Council agree with the view of learning that is behind such a report, and the conclusions that say that we can save relatively many billions in public school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e174	I cannot attribute to researchers who have made a report on possibilities for efficiency by comparing municipalities, the best and the worst, a special view of learning. These are arguments that usually come from those teams that do not like the results and that therefore try to suspect the basis on which they are based. This is a left-wing socialist approach to discrediting research based on the very premises on which research has been based. They say that's an efficiency potential. You say you don't have an answer to just how you take it out, and we have to keep working on it. Then you have to be aware that there are choices that are made locally, which are not necessarily limited to a learning vision related to this. That's interesting in itself. I have background as a school politician in Bergen. There we have a school structure because of the sharing of languages and the former municipal association, which made us school politicians when I was about. ten pieces in some classes in some parts of the municipality. We couldn't measure better learning conditions in the small groups than in those who had 28 students at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e181	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e184	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In the presentation of the revised national budget last Friday, the Minister of Finance supported the unhindered economic development of the country. And the boom in the economy is noticeable, but unfortunately not for everyone. It is serious that the unemployment rate is still at 100,000, while there is growth in the economy. This shows that the government's efforts to reduce unemployment have been too weak, and my question is: Why does the government not now propose a power cut to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e193	That I boasted uninhibited, I think maybe I'm taking a bit of a hard time, but that's a good reason, as the questioner also mentioned, to say that the Norwegian economy is going well. And unemployment goes down as a result. At the same time, however, the workforce is increasing. This means that unemployment does not go down as much as it would if the workforce had not increased. At the same time, we see that new groups flow to the labour market. In particular, women who have not been registered as unemployed, but who want a job, and that is very good. This also increases the professional frequency. At the same time, we see that sick leave goes down. This implies the need for fewer temporary workers. In this sense, there is also a dampening effect on the decline in unemployment, but the reason for this is positive, i.e. sick leave is falling. We assume that the decline in unemployment will continue into the next year, as it will continue into the second half of this year. Labour market measures are also relatively stronger in the second half of the year than they were in the first half of the year, taking into account the same size of the ordinary measures, but strengthen some of the special measures against the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e204	I noticed what the Minister of Finance is saying now, especially about the apparatus. It's not particularly impressive when the drug you've been using for the first six months hasn't worked, saying you're giving the same dose for the next six months and assuming it's going to work. I believe that the government is too passive about active measures to move people from unemployment to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e209	It's not right to say that it hasn't worked, because the time off has gone down. Nor is it right to say that the vacancy has stuck, which is an expression that is often used by representatives of the Workers' Party. The proportion of long-term unemployed is reduced, and there is nothing to suggest that people now remain long on labour market measures, i.e. without work. In addition, introducing measures is not creating real new jobs. This, in turn, prevents a person from being completely unemployed, but when unemployment falls and the level of action is maintained, it means that more people benefit from the level of action that is there. I believe, in particular, that there is reason to focus on those who have problems getting into both action and the labour market as a result of different variants of VET, and under the Social Ministry's budget, special measures are now being put in place against these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e218	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e221	What's interesting is that the unemployment forecast has been adjusted by the Government in this budget compared to what was in the ordinary budget. That means that the prospects are more negative than Per-Christian Foss meant six months ago. The revised national budget also states that despite having good times, employment has increased by only 5,000 people — and that is, at a time when the Norwegian economy may go better than in many years. And you're going to write: ‘Employment growth has not been strong enough to significantly reduce unemployment.’ We'll record that. Unemployment is record high despite the fact that Norwegian industry and Norwegian economy are doing better than ever. And then we can imagine the scenario that Norwegian economy went into normal mode and not high. How much would unemployment have been? So there is no stimulus in this budget for people to get into work – those who do not come into work naturally. And that's what's the big challenge, that there are many groups in Norwegian society that don't naturally find a place in the labour market for different reasons. The question is, is the government satisfied with this? Because it almost seems like the government thinks this is good enough. 5,000 new people in high economic conditions are not good enough, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e234	The correct number is 5,800 people, but I agree it's not the big difference. It is not right to say that there is no stimulus in the budget. When we expect AKU unemployment to be lower in six months than in the first six months, it's a decline. So you're strengthening employment. Employment growth is stronger than the decline in unemployment. Rather than comparing cases in Norway with one another, one might want to look at what is happening in other countries. In Germany, they can't get the time off, it goes up. Under social democratic rule, there has been the highest unemployment since the 1930s. In Sweden, unemployment was not reduced last year, despite high growth in the economy. Norway is unable to cope with other countries: combining the high economic cycle with strong economic growth and decline in unemployment. It is also contrary to what happened in the previous period of growth in employment, from 1998 onwards, where we had growth in employment, but not a decline in unemployment. Now we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e241	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e244	The drop in unemployment referred to by the Minister of Finance is pretty hairy, and the AKU unemployment rate was as high in the first quarter of this year as it was last year. The Minister of Finance has many explanations as to why unemployment remains high in a situation where the Norwegian economy is doing well and where new jobs are created, and he shows that it is also demanding in other countries to reduce unemployment. It is of little comfort to the hundreds of thousands who are unemployed. Experience shows that for each wave of high unemployment, it becomes more demanding to bring unemployment down to a low level. I think it would have been an advantage if the finance minister had put as much commitment into getting the unemployment down through various measures as in explaining why the unemployment rate is falling so little when the Norwegian economy is going so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e251	And the question was? After the budget was presented, I have not seen a single proposal from the Labour Party or other opposition parties that can help bring growth up. On the other hand, there has been an extreme focus on the question of why we shouldn't sell tax-free on routes. It's been focused after we provided the budget. So I'm actually asking for alternative measures. This budget proposal shows that growth in the Norwegian economy is good, it is adjusted. We also adjust the estimates for economic growth, and we show that there is still a decline in unemployment. We can do that. The questioner used the expression that for each wave of economic decline there is a tendency for unemployment to fall at an too high level. I pointed out that yes, it happens internationally, but it doesn't happen in Norway. We have, after all, a decline in unemployment, even though it is somewhat weaker than expected. One of the reasons, which I have not mentioned so far, is among other things. that industry has some problems in some of Europe’s poor markets, including Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e260	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e263	Yes, the job breaks down, and the government presents small measures to help the job creators who can do something about it. Instead of taking positive action, we find something that works in the wrong direction, that there should be no opportunity to permit for 42 weeks, as it has been for now, there will be a permanent arrangement of only 26 weeks. In some industries, the order situation is such that they still need to permit for so long. The fact that the rules on permitting are changed every six months gives unforeseeable results. It doesn't want business. What is at the top of their list of requirements for this policy area is: Remove the unforeseeable! I don't believe in any permits being abused by serious employers. They only permit when they need it. If they leave too much, they lose their professionals. They know that, and that's why there's no danger that it's going to be abused if 42 weeks stay, as the Center Party will.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e272	The period of leave here is subject to ongoing assessment. It has been under changing governments, because the period of leave has to be adapted to the cyclical situation, i.e. the risk of fluctuations in industries that make use of permits in particular. I recall that the government of Stoltenberg in its draft budget for 2002 actually proposed the most radical cut during the period of leave so far. Then, with changing budgetary settlements, there has been a consensus that the period of leave should not be cut as much as intended, but with an assessment mid-year. This was also the case at the budgetary conciliation last autumn. Therefore, the Government has now assessed what will happen after 1 July. We will show you, among other things: to the extent that the drop in unemployment has been greater in industry in general and in the construction industry than in the whole line. In other words, industries that make particular use of permits have had a greater improvement in their situation than the average. That's part of the reason why we don't see the need to extend the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e279	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e282	I suppose I must allow myself to start by saying that the husband of a financier like that in the previous change of words is not often heard, fortunately. But let me get to the question – it is also to the Minister of Finance: In the forecasts for the revised budget, the government estimates a growth in the public sector for next year at 1 p.m., which is very low. It's far below the forecast for next year's price rise. Private sector growth should have been three times as high. This will mean that until next year we will see a reinforced picture of what we have seen now and over several years, namely that the public sector is losing at the expense of private consumption. It will mean that the schools, kindergartens, the care of the elderly, the pensioners, all of them, will experience the same narrowness to the next year as we experience now. So the prognosis is going to be 1 pst. 1 pst. growth in the public sector is in reality a decline in public consumption in important welfare areas. What is then my challenge to the Minister of Finance is: Is he satisfied with that? He means 1 pst. growth, which is, in reality, not growth in the public sector, is something the Right-Registration can be satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e289	The President would point out that the word ‘flockery’ is not and will not be included in the parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e292	Doing 1 pst. growth to no growth and use statistics that way, is something I can't admit. The reason we've had a rather strong growth in private consumption in recent years is good pay and low price growth. It's good in itself. It was private consumption that first turned the negative economic development, or the lack of growth, into a new period of growth in Norway. Gradually, other investments, not least in industry, have come after and reinforced and expanded the basis for growth. But we still have strong growth in the pay sector, and we have strong growth in transfers. The fact that we have had large transfers to out-of-work groups actually contributes statistically to increasing the growth of the private sector. That's what I've heard from many SV representatives on this pulpit, or others, standing and howl, that is, we have large transfers, but statistically it's considered to be a growth in the private sector. So let's be a little careful to think that growth in the private sector is an expression of some kind of abuse or the like. Yes, I am pleased with a public sector that has shown particularly strong growth in the education and health sectors. The 2004 United Nations Development Report states, inter alia: that the Norwegian health system is the best in the world measured in resource use, availability and level of health services. The use of resources during this period has increased strongly in an important area such as the health sector, but also in other areas. Not least kindergartens and schools, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e300	Interestingly, Per-Kristian Foss is satisfied with the growth – which is not really growth – in the public sector. This will mean that when you go into the election campaign, the government can say, yes, this public sector, this welfare state we have around us, we are satisfied with. So it has actually fallen in money use for the benefit of the private sector. There's a lot of the growth in the private sector that's positive, to all intents and purposes. This is just an illustration of the difference, because it's really going to mean, it won't be possible to rust up more classrooms next year, it won't be possible to get more water in the pool in those schools where there's no pool. It will not be possible to move further ahead with the welfare state, simply because all the politicians who come here to the house, including the Right-wing rapporteurs, are all sounding like SVs, because they know that the reality of a Norwegian municipality is that there is no money. What the Minister of Finance is now saying is that there will be no more money for next year either. On the contrary, transfers should be even lower than this year, for this year it is 1.7 pst., until next year it should be only 1 pst., i.e. a halving of transfers to the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e305	When all those who come to the Storting sound like SVs, it might be a variant of Einar Guided statement that we're all social democrats. That's how you might see it in the time of the intoxication, but I think it might not be quite comprehensive. The public sector has had good conditions under this government and will continue to have it. It lies as an additional measure in revised, inter alia: an additional escalation of one billion in the framework of the renovation of municipal school buildings, and there is also a warning of further improvements in the municipal bill for next year. I think you should also be careful with the use of these swimming pool examples as an example that everything is bad in the municipalities. Also SV can get hurt to black paint so strongly that even their own politicians do not recognize themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e310	There will be four follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e313	It is unfortunately so that there are ordinary people and the welfare that lose when the Right will have enough money left for its rich uncles. In the municipal proposition, it is very well described that there are major shortcomings both in the care of the elderly and in the school sector. And when the government, and especially Foss, speaks, it sounds like it would hurt the Norwegian economy and Norway if we had an elderly care in Norway that made older people actually have freedom of choice, or that we had a school in Norway where all the children had actually been guaranteed appropriate training. Can Foss explain how it would damage the Norwegian economy that these important tasks will be solved, especially in a situation where we have good advice, and where we could better distribute growth between the private and public sectors, so that the well-being and the important tasks to build the country suffer, as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e320	It was suggested that the government speaks like a prodigal – State Council Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e323	The government is probably talking through single-country councils. The question that was asked was so important that I have to answer no, I cannot explain that. The meaning I'm adding, I haven't had, I don't have and I'm not going to have. So if you ask questions like this, you get relatively stupid answers. That I will stand here and justify why it will harm the elderly to have freedom of choice: I have spent much of my political effort to justify that older people should have more freedom of choice than they have today. This is also evident from the Government’s proposal for the Stortinget. I've spent a lot of my political life justifying why we're going to spend more money on the education sector, and it's also justified by the Government in its documents. But what will damage the Norwegian economy is if you turn to the unimpaired use of money that SV stands for. Then you want to hurt the part that's called the private sector, that's supposed to produce, that's going to earn, so that we can get wealth for the whole country. That balance sheet has never been found.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e330	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e333	The local government sector has never received more transfers than it received this year, and in 2004, 2003 and 2002. The truth is that in just one year, that is, in 2004, the local government sector received almost 8 billion kroner in increased transfers. In addition, 50 billion kroner have been spent in some areas of care, school, etc. during the current period. The fact that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has not registered it is well on their account. But I refer again to the report that I mentioned earlier today, that the greater the proportion of socialists it is in a local government, the less effective it becomes. My concern, on the other hand, about next year's settlement for the local government sector, is that it is not predictable. Within the one percent increase in the municipal bill now, it is in free income, NOK 1.3 billion – NOK 2.3 billion. Can the Minister of Finance more guarantee that there will be more than DKK 2.3 billion in free income in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e340	The government's proposal is what's in the municipal bill. Some further deepening of it is no reason to give before in the budget for next year. I believe that the Sandberg representative will then have a certain sense that a budget must also be seen as a whole, and that the municipal sector is also part of that whole. He's been using 90 pst. of his contribution to justify why he believes that the local government sector is getting too much money, I understand. Now I think – with a certain background in this room for some years – that it is well that no matter how large the growth is in the municipal sector, there will still be a need. And the differences between municipalities are great, in priorities. It is partly a political question, and it has something to do with what tradition is like in that municipality. But more predictability than the fact that the local government sector is informed of the framework of its economic activity half a year before the state budget is adopted in Stortinget, I cannot promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e345	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e348	It is a fact that private growth is very strong, and public growth is lower than in many years. At that time, it is time to recognise that low public growth must mean a reduction in ambitions also in relation to local welfare. And the municipalities say it's seagoing. Over 50 pst. believes that they will have to cut in schools, and over 40 pst. they have to cut in old age care. In a previous response, the Minister of Finance indicated that lower growth in the public sector contributes to increased growth in the private sector – with a certain positive sign, I understood. And the question is, does the Right believe that there is still room for even lower growth in the public sector? Is it the Right's objective to reduce public sector growth even more than the Government has so far contributed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e356	If the question is asked to a State Council, the answer is on behalf of the Government. I have some problems getting the whole reasoning that Arnstad's representative is making. Is she standing here and sorry that there has been too much pay growth? Does she stand here and regret that there has been too good agricultural settlement — agreement in four successive settlements? It has also contributed strongly to private consumption. How will she slow down the private consumption she talks so negatively about, without wanting to increase the taxes? The means by which private sector development is slowed down are increasing taxes. But as far as I understand it, you've made it clear that you just want to do it to a limited extent. This reasoning simply does not go hand in hand if you do not want to resort to increasing taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e363	Hill-Marta Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e366	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. We have heard that the Minister of Finance is very pleased with 1 pst. government growth to next year. After all, the Municipal Minister is the Council of State responsible for a large part of the public sector, the municipal sector. So my question is, is the Minister of State satisfied with a growth of 1 pst. in the municipal sector until next year? Does the Minister of State think that it is possible to create both new services to follow up population developments and to fill the current shortcomings within such growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e375	I am very pleased with the municipal economy that we have presented for the next period. It is at the top of what some government has previously proposed — it has been turned off by what the Government proposed for 2004. The growth in free revenues between SEK 1.3 billion and 2.3 billion lies at the outer edge, if we reach 2.3 – above what some working party government has ever suggested. So that's why I'm quite satisfied with the scheme that's been put forward. We are able to give priority to the local government sector, while ensuring that we do not create imbalances in the Norwegian economy which, in turn, would create greater risks to the jobs and to the welfare of the future. It is these relationships that are of importance, including for the local government sector. With the scheme we've put forward, we're going to bet on school, we're going to bet on kindergartens, and we're going to bet on care for the elderly. Then the municipalities have the potential to operate more efficiently, which is also documented, and then you can do even more than the income framework provides for more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e383	I also have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The government has presented a political account in the municipal bill, which states that by the end of 2004, the economic balance of the municipal sector has been restored, and without the service provision being weakened. When we read it in the Central Party, and when we also listen to the Minister of Municipal Affairs today, we can see that there is a very large distance between what the Minister of Local Affairs calls a non-military offer and what people out there experience. It is a fact that it has been closed down by schools, that care services and cultural schools are being cut, that parents with disabled children are fighting for a good supply to their children, and that there are many who are calling for more prevention and better follow-up within the drug field. But I understand that the Council of State is very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e390	There is also a fact that new offers have been created for the elderly, new hospitals have been built, more have been given assistance during this period, both within hospitals and within home-based services. There is more education, there are several new schools built – you should have traveled around and looked at some of the new schools being built, you would have wanted to have been a school student again, just because there are some magnificent buildings being built, often in combination with sports buildings. There is a lot of big and positive in Norwegian municipalities. This eternal focus on where things aren't going so well – and I admit that there are many places where things aren't going well enough – is very negative for all those who get it. We have operating results in 2004 at 2.4 pst. We think we need to raise an operating result of 3 pst. To be able to say that we're balanced. Then there is a lag on the maintenance page that we have to try to take back over the year. But we can't solve this in a year after 30 years of failure sins on the maintenance side, I think most people will understand that. But when we vent the crisis, it is among other things. Because – we look at the KOSTRA figures and at the coverage levels, we look at the whole of the municipal sector – we have been able to do this reverse operation in the municipal sector, which means that we get better operating results. The only sector in which there is a real decline in the use of resources is in administration. And I actually mean it's a plus point, not a minus point. We need to spend less resources on managing and more resources on services in the municipal sector in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e397	I'm very happy that there's a lot going well, that there's a lot of good supplies in the municipality of Norway. But what's important, of course, to focus on in our vision, is that not only are there some people going to have a good school, but everyone is going to have a good school where they live. Everyone should be able to feel that they are being used and heard when they need a good care service. KS - its own organization - has shown a way in relation to what the Council of State is now pointing out to be missing. They have asked for DKK 5.7 billion for the next year to last a good operating result, at 3 p.m., and also to catch up on maintenance, both in 2006 and in the longer term. They have their high-quality figures, they have minimal consequences for interest and inflation – that is how the Central Party's budget with 10,000 more added for 2005 was also characterised. Why, then, not strengthen the municipalities anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e402	So there are problems in the municipal sector, there are problems in some municipalities, and there are huge challenges in the future, including building a good care for the elderly. But it is also, as previous word changes here have now shown, an efficiency potential that can be used to take out some better quality of service, without the need for net transfers that are higher than what we have proposed. In fact, it is one of the challenges we should be working on more, namely to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the best possible way. I have deep respect for the fact that for every penny I take from a resident in Norway, I remove some of their well-being, their ability to pay their bills, and then I have a responsibility to manage that money in the best possible way. It also has the municipal sector. That's why 5.7 billion kroner of money are going to be collected from someone, or more oil money is going to be used. Then it's interesting – I've just registered in the newspaper that a note has been made in the Central Party – that now the Center Party is starting to approach the position, they think, and so they must start pursuing a responsible economic policy again. They haven't done that in opposition for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e407	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e410	It is interesting to note that the sense of reality throughout the debate on municipal economy is so different from those who sit in the municipalities and manage municipal welfare, and up to the Government and the Minister of Municipal Affairs. Of course, you can draw up single examples, but it's about what the representative Meltveit Kleppa was about, not providing someone with a good care or a good school offer, but about everyone having good care for the elderly, and everyone has to have a good school offer. The Minister of Local Affairs was concerned about the question of delays in the maintenance of public buildings. I think more and more people notice that there's a lot to do here. The question is simply: how does the Government intend to contribute to the pursuit of maintenance, and what long-term thinking does this government have about that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e427	If we were to take seriously that everyone would get an equivalent offer, we would have to do something radical with the income system for the municipal sector, such as: The centre party has been against it for a long time. In fact, there is a difference between municipalities in their ability to offer an equivalent offer, which is not explained by objective criteria, but as, among other things, by: is explained that we give more money to the small municipalities, more money to North Norway, and we give more with a district policy justification. I just emphasize that if we were really concerned that everyone should have the same opportunity, it would be like this. In addition, I can never cancel that there are differences in the ability, quality and decision-making capacity of municipal politicians, just as it is in this room. There are differences in priorities and others, which are also going to give rise to differences. This results, among other things, in: differences in the fact that some municipalities have prioritised maintenance – some have been able to do so, others have not. However, with regard to maintenance and upgrading efforts, there has actually been a massive investment in both school buildings and care for the elderly in the last eight years, and now there has been a small investment – in the budgetary agreement with the Advance Party – in church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e434	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e437	Let me first say that the arrogance of the Minister of Finance in this government does not at least create better conditions in the municipal sector. I would have asked that the Minister of Finance put words in my mouth that are not right. I have not said that the local government sector has been given too much money. What I've pointed out is that they've got a lot of money. It is clear that when the Minister of Finance also rejects the fact that flooding and government can improve the predictability of the municipal sector through the municipal bill, it seems almost as if this government is helpless. So I would like to repeat the question to the Minister of State. The growth in the municipal proposition is approximately equivalent. Three billion kroner. As I pointed out, one of these billions is very, very uncertain. So my question is, is it now possible for Stortingen to create greater predictability of the growth underlying the municipal proposition, by guaranteeing that free revenues will be closer to 2.3 billion kroner?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e444	It's quite possible for the Storting to do. It is fully possible, among others. by ensuring that, in the revised national budget, we do not incur current new expenditures which attract other budget chapters and which distort community economics. It is clear that it is the whole of a budgetary context that is important to the Government, and the whole of it means that at least now, as a budget, we are providing enough free revenues for the local government sector to cover the demographic changes. Then we've signaled the will and the space to – up to NOK 2.3 billion – provide more free revenues. But we have to have that space in relation to a responsible economic structure that does not bring uncertainty about interest rates, about price increases, and thus weaken the competitiveness of competitive business. So we're a government that's committed to taking care of the future of children and young people in this country, and we don't make that happen by building up Norwegian industry, by growing in the public sector too quickly. That's why it's important to do other things about Stortinget during these spring months, if you want to give priority to the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e449	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e452	Once again, if there are more pensioners, the state will have to pay more to pay the same pensions as before. Similarly, if older people are older, municipalities will have to pay more in order to provide the same service to older people as before. When the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Government talk about growth in municipal income, this is ignored. It is ignored that a substantial part of the increased transfers is going to be paid for more older and more children. For the next year, the Government has not even indicated that commitments for growth should be made in addition to those resulting from the increase in the number of children and the number of older people. The Minister of Local Affairs is talking about respect for the municipalities, but is it not an unreasonable arrogance when the Minister of State and the Minister of Finance rejects even the concerns of Højre's own rapporteurs that when they come to Stortinget to point out weaknesses in the local economy, we have to put down basic welfare offers? Finally, I must be allowed to remind the municipal minister that the Labour Party's financial arrangements for 2001 had a growth in free income of NOK 2 billion, i.e. significantly more than NOK 1.3 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e463	I agree that it is important to make sure that there is room for expenditure in the future. It is important to provide room for meeting the older people’s wave also in the municipal sector. It's not the money that matters. The most important thing is that we have to have 40,000 new annual works for a decade to give the same coverage as today. So just to maintain the same kind of offer for a larger quantity of older people, we need 40,000 new annual works. That's why it's very necessary that we be held back with promises in all other sectors if we're going to be able to achieve that, because the greatest resource shortage we're going to have within the skilled workforce to help people is the warm hands. It's not the money that's going to be our biggest problem in the years to come. I would like to say that, in fact, I think it can be that the Minister of State and the Minister of Finance are talking about what former municipal ministers and finance ministers have done. After all, it is not the case that the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Schjøtt-Pedersen has not felt that rapporteurs from the Labour Party felt that there were welfare problems in the municipal sector and that more money was needed. It's actually one of our jobs to hold back and, among other things. point out that migration and change are possible to ensure that welfare services are also improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e470	The representative Schjött-Pedersen can stay standing, because he's going to ask the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e473	One of the most important things that politicians can do is to provide the population with basic security — security to get home help if you need it, and the security of nursing homes if you need care. We see, for example: in the municipality of Drammen, that you have to cut off the help services for the elderly, so that each home assistant has to visit over 50 years of age. That means they get visits every three to four weeks. Recently, the municipality of Gaul decided that they had to cut between 20 and 25 jobs at the hospital. That means that many people who need it don't get sick home space. These are just two of the innumerable examples of the fact that the services of older people are actually getting worse. Does the Minister of State think that this increases the so-called freedom of choice of the elderly? And does she think it's right to promise $23 billion in new tax reliefs, when many older people lack such basic security? Or is it the way the Minister of State said in his previous reply, that one has to hold back the kind of promises in order to do what is most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e482	The municipality of Drammen has now reopened hospitalization sites that were closed under the workers party regime there. They have invested more money in the home care services in the care sector, and they are currently struggling with over-consumption in other parts of home-based care. This means that they have to adjust something to the offer, yes, but overall they have a significantly improved effort for the elderly in the municipality of Drammen. And that's not so strange, because the government will give more money to the Municipality of Drama than the Workers' Party has done. This is one of the municipalities that have won the income scheme proposed and implemented by this government in Stortinget – and which Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen has voted against. With the arrangement of the Workers' Party, Drammen municipality would have had less money, if it had been done, on the basis of the changes they have now received. I agree that security is important. Security is important both for home and for housing, and security is important for the job in our society. And, of course, it's important to be sure of what welfare offers you can get. Then I think it is important that politicians not black painters to create insecurity. Looking at the longer-term surveys undertaken by several governments, on the perception of the services provided, it can be seen that the local government sector has an image problem. In fact, those who receive services in the home care sector, those who have an offer, and those who are in the age group who have an offer, have a much better experience of what is offered in the municipal sector than the ordinary citizen has. Why could it be like this? Well, it could be because we focus on the problems and create insecurity through it, instead of showing that there is a lot of work done in the care of the elderly. There are clearly offers in many places. But there will always be peaks and declines in some municipalities where you don't have the bed there right away, and where you have to make changes and improvise to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e491	Does the Minister for Local Affairs really think that older people who are reduced in their home care services so that they have to wait three to four weeks for each visit feel like a better offer? Does the Minister of State think that the elderly in Gaul who do not have a place in a nursing home feel like a better offer and greater security that they do not receive this place? Does the municipal minister really mean, when she says that in order to offer more elderly people a sick home place and have more employees in the sector, that we need to give priority to that? Does she really think it's such a priority when she chooses 23 billion kroner in tax relief, while for example. Gauls must cut the number of employees? The drama municipality would actually have gotten close to 48 million. kr more with the Workers' Party's arrangements in this period than they have received with the Government, because the Workers' Party will use more for welfare and less for tax purposes. It would provide better services to the elderly, but it would also provide better services to the school population. Is it not a cross of thought for the Right Leader that the Right and the Advance Party tax reliefs are paid with increased insecurity for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e499	There were many questions at once, but the council has a whole minute to answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e502	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's way of using numbers, I've also mentioned earlier. It doesn't matter how you do it. You have to start from the last year to talk about what's the difference between them. If you don't have to also start talking about what number sizes you measure 48 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. During this period, the Labour Party has proposed approx. 0.7 pst. greater appropriations for the local government sector as a whole than proposed by the Government and adopted by the Stortinget. And you have to base what has been adopted, because it is clear that it eats some of the proposals for appropriations for the next period. If we don't cheat with numbers in a way that I think is unworthy in the political debate, then it's just to let people misunderstand what you really stand for. In 2005, Drammen gets a better economy with our setup, because we've changed the income system. And I know that the people in the Drama are happy that they've got more places to live in. Older people thus have better provision for more security, with more health care places and better provision in heavy care for the elderly. Then, sometimes when you have over-consumption in a sector, you have to adjust over the course of the year. It cannot be that one should not have financial management in the local government sector. And that's what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is now accusing the municipality of Drammen – that they really shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e511	The minute's up. There will be four follow-up questions – first Reidar Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e516	Today, 120 of our municipalities are placed under state control. That's 27 pst. by the municipalities of Norway. There has been a strong increase in the number of municipalities in this area in the last few years. So the state bureaucrats actually have a greater influence on how the economy of the municipalities is going to be than the majority of the municipal government and the elected spokesmen. My question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore: has there been a strong growth in the number of municipalities placed under state control? Is it because the municipalities don't manage to keep order in their own houses, or is it because these municipalities get too little resources to solve their tasks, especially in the care of the elderly and education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e523	It should have pleased the representative Reidar Sandal that 30 municipalities are on their way out of this list. We are likely to have well below 100 at the end of the summer, based on the significantly improved operating results that are now in the municipal sector. That's one of the reasons why we say that the local government sector is on its way out of an economically difficult situation. What is the reason why many municipalities have come into such a situation? I would like to remind you that it was approx. 70 municipalities on this list when it was created under the Labour Party Government. So we want 20 more -- maybe 25 more -- now. We've been through the situation, where the Workers' Party, after these 70 municipalities got on this list, has been screaming about crisis every day. There has not been any reason for this, since there has been a difficult situation, particularly due to the failure of tax revenue, and the failure of tax revenue was in 2002 and 2003. In 2002, the Labour Party had 200 million. kr more in the revised national budget of the local government sector than that of the Government. It was the year that clearly showed that most municipalities joined this list. Perhaps we should have had a more sober debate on this. Maybe we shouldn't use all of these signals the way the Workers' Party uses them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e530	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e533	The council says she's tired of the black paint. It should probably also make the government turn around a little bit of its argument, because the Norwegian economy is good. That's why it's so hard to understand, for most people, for those who sit in local government, and not least for those who now get cut off in their home help, why in this situation such cuts should be necessary. It's not possible to explain that it's rational. Governments call it over-consumption. When people who prove need home help, and who get it, cut it down to half, there's over-consumption in the Council of State's mouth. I think the Council of State needs to explain why, in the good economic situation we have in Norway today, it should be municipalities that need to cut into adapted training for students and in home help, and – as in my municipality of residence – it considers to be infirm. Are we really that poor in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e540	We are not poor, but we can become poor if we just spend more money no matter how much money is spent in a sector, and if those who are going to have budgetary control do not have budgetary control. Because that's what the representative Karin Andersen says. If you use more money in the easier home care services in the municipality of Drammen than what is included in the budget, are you just going to fill in all the time, are you going to get money from other sectors, or are you just going to go with a deficit anyway? That's the question, when you've at the same time invested a lot more in the municipality of Dramam in home care and in opening hospitals, i.e. the heavy relief tasks. So it's possible that it's hard to understand the situation. My reverential view is that it can't be so hard to understand that we have to take into account the welfare of the future as well. We need to ensure good operation of the local government sector, and that the welfare of the future is not improved by the fact that municipalities are going back to underbalance because they are not operating in budgetary management. [[President clubs]] Then it's young, then it's kids, and then it's older in the municipal sector that next round is going to be hit. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e552	The President must remember that speaking time is still 1 minute. Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e557	This is an eternal discussion. It's been like this for 15 years. What it really is about is disclaimer from politicians, regardless of the level at which politicians operate – municipality, county, magnificence or government. The situation is not getting better, as this is generally a desired policy in each municipality. We'll always have simple situations, as we'll see earlier here. I can show you an example myself. Bodø municipality gets harsh criticism because 83-year-old Roald Olsen starved in the heels of a municipal nursing home. Bodø is run by socialists. I could give a number of examples from Tromsø, which are also run by socialists. So this kind of debate will always be there. In order to clarify and to put an end to this type of debate and discharge, the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that the State should have 100 pst. financial responsibility both for care of the elderly and for school. Isn't it time for the government to start thinking in the paths that the Progress Party is doing, simply to take responsibility for the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e566	I believe that the local People's Government is a significantly better level of providing good services to individuals for tasks related to each other. I believe that fragmentation into state bodies of these tasks is going to provide a poorer welfare offer and, in fact, a less effective welfare offer than that provided by the local government sector. I think that the call to ensure proper responsibilities should also go to Norwegian politicians, who do not respect the responsibilities of the local People's Council, and who are thus using the pulpit here to discuss the priorities of a local government in a nearby city, based on completely incorrect information, as simple examples of the so-called misery, while at the same time the same municipality can show very good results in very many areas. When choosing local politicians, politicians are also chosen who will make different priorities in the sectors for which they are responsible. That's the cost of popular government. But at the same time, I believe that the benefits are so great that we actually get better services and more efficient services to the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e574	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e577	The councils pointed to investigations that reported that most people are well-accompanied with municipal services. I ask that she notice that the studies also show that it is in the smaller municipalities that people are most naked. There is the shortest distance between the controllers and the controllers. It's the municipalities the state council systematically trying to reduce the funds to, for the benefit of others that she thinks they need more. So I think it's okay to clarify at the end of the debate we've had today, what will be well-being in the future. The council says that $5.7 billion is a huge figure when it comes to securing care and schooling. I understand that $23 billion is a correspondingly small number when it comes to securing more of those who are already thinking a lot, tax havens. It's okay to get this clarified at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e584	I am quite concerned that when we implement tax relief, we are going to implement tax reliefs that help us get more tax revenue in the future, that we get safer jobs for people, that we contribute to our welfare society in the future developing and getting better. I have a political function and believe that the most important thing for me as a politician is actually to make sure that the next generation takes over a society that is better off than the society that I have lived in. Then I can't consume all the resources now, so I have to create a growth base for the future. When we add up to tax relief, the main emphasis is on tax relief to contribute to more innovation and investment and to private capital investment in Norway, so that we have secure jobs and secure tax revenues and can also meet the future challenges for this country. The municipal sector will also have room for better supply instead of building our growth capacity in the future. And then we cut off and cut off the welfare that a lot of countries in Europe are now struggling with, because they have not managed to maintain the growth capacity of their economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e593	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e599	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has left. Question 6, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 8, 9 and 10 from the representatives of Marit Nybakk and Øyvind Korsberg respectively to the Minister for Defence are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e612	The first question that will be answered after these changes is then question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e619	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions, which are exposed from the previous Question Time, to the Minister of Defence: «Inside. S. No 234 on the activities of the Defence Agency in the period 2005–08, it was widely agreed that the jobs of the Defence Logistics Organisation in the Capital Region should be balanced between East and West, more precisely between Kjeller and Kolsås. [[2003-2004]] [[FLO]] How does the Ministry of Defence follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e628	In the conversion of defence, the Government has placed great emphasis on the presence of all regions of the country. At the same time, activities must be brought together to a greater extent than in the past. It means a power collection in North Norway, Trøndelag, Bergen, the inner eastern region and the Oslofjord region. Presence in all regions strengthens regional competences and provides the basis for growth and employment in all parts of the country. Oslo and Akershus have compiled a significant feature of the Defence management elements and departments. The proximity of decision-makers and relevant professional environments, the availability of skilled labour and the use of infrastructure have been important for localisation in this area. When examining the timing of the long-term proposition last year, Stortinget decided to move the parts of the Defence Logistics Organisation within the Heavy Maintenance Division and other defence activities dependent on the Kjeller airstrip to Gardermoen. In addition, the transporter quadron shall move from Gardermoen to Rygge. In the 2005 government budget, the Government briefed on the further development of the FLO, including the organisation of the activities of the FLO in a decentralised process-based model, where both the level of divisional management and the units of production and performance are reduced. This is important in order to achieve the adopted savings target of 1 300 annual works over the period 2002–2005 and a further minimum of 600 million. kr i reduced operating costs for the FLO per. years in the period 2005-2008. When examining the state budget last autumn, the Defence Committee stated that the establishment of an agreed organisational structure within the framework and efficiency requirements of the Stortinget has been delegated and that negotiations are now ongoing with the employees’ organisations. I refer here to the answer given in the Questionnaire on 2 March this year that the Ministry of Defence in the State Budget for 2006 for the autumn will come back with information on the future of the conversion of the FLO. Akershus is currently well balanced in defence workplaces, divided into both the western, central and northern regions. To the extent that the decisions of the Storting and the ongoing FLO changes may result in some adjustments between them, it would be natural to respond to them in the State budget. However, both Gardermoen, Kjeller, Kolsås and Oslo Centre will remain very central environments in the Defence Military Organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e649	First in general: it has been important in the Oslo region that skills jobs were balanced between east and west. Now it's quite right, as the Council of State says, in terms of defence jobs in general, they're very evenly distributed in this region with some heavy weight on Sessvollmoen and Hauerseter, i.e. in North Akershus. We also have Kolsås, and we have Linderud and Oslo center. But it was important for us when we treated St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, to ensure that the management of the planned operational division at that time should remain at Kjeller. Now I also understand, on the basis of the answer given to the undersigned on 2 March, that one works on the basis of a different model of the Defence Logistics Organisation from the one adopted by the Stortinget in December 2003. That Council of State replied on 2 March, I guess she is now presenting this as a matter in the State budget for 2006. But at least I want to ask you to balance out skills jobs between east and west as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e656	Here, there is a broad consensus that both Colsås in the West and Kjeller in the East are important environments of competence for the Defence in the future. Colzas will be central both to the ICT division and to the material division, and Kjeller will remain central to what is happening today in the Operating Division, even though the divisional management is shrinking due to a more decentralised model, as the Stortinget was informed in the 2005 budget proposal. Just because this issue has shown an interest on the part of the Committee, I think it is natural in the submitted budget we come to the harvest to inform about the possible consequences of the new model for the region addressed by the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e665	I have asked the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The majority decided on 10 June 2004 that the HV District Staff of Troms and Northern Nordland should be located in Bjerkvik. Questions have been raised about this decision and the Council of State has reassured that the decision will be implemented. The future newspaper reports on May 11th that the defense will put down a newly built satellite station in Bjerkvik, a station NATO will keep there. Why does this happen against the will of NATO, and what action will the Council of State take to strengthen the location of both HV and other defence-related departments in Bjerkvik?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e674	I would first like to say that I think it is satisfactory that the previous round of questions on this helped to calm down with regard to the location of the HV District Staff for Troms. In addition, I would like to point out to the question of Bjerkvik and NATO infrastructure that NATO is now revising its entire satellite ground station infrastructure in Europe. NATO has taken a decision on the closure of 16 satellite ground stations in Europe. The decision was taken on the Military Committee by Memorandum No. 0058-2004 of 24 March 2004. Six ground stations in Phase I and ten stations in Phase II shall be closed. The closure of Bjerkvik and Eggemoen will take place in the light of NATO's decision. These will be replaced by a mobile satellite station. On the other hand, Norwegian operational requirements make NATO plan to continue one of the stationary stations temporarily until the mobile station is established. In line with this, NATO first proposed that the Eggemo be laid down. However, during the consultation round, Norway recommended that NATO’s station on Eggemoen be maintained during the transitional phase, because the defence established in 2004 a national ground station on Eggemoen, co-located with NATO station. The establishment was made to ensure a rational personnel operation. It is therefore more appropriate for Norway to continue the NATO station at Eggemoen. NATO has taken this into account in its decision of the Military Committee in March this year, with the consequence that Bjerkvik is put down first, and that the Eggemo continues to operate until a mobile solution is in place. As regards the question of Home Affairs and other defence-related departments in Bjerkvik, I would like to refer to my answer to the question from the representative Gunnar Halvorsen in the Questionnaire on HV-16 on 2 February this year. As I was informed, the district staff of HV-16, in line with the Stortinget decision, are moved from Setermoen to Bjerkvik, and take over HV-15's office facilities. The new district staff will operate in Bjerkvik from 1 August 2005. This implements the Stortingen decision on the location of HV-16. I would also like to say that this whole area of Troms is very central to the defense. Just as the defence has centralized its army to the precisely Troms and the Rena environment, it underlined the importance of these local communities in defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e687	First, I take preliminary note of what the Council of State says about the satellite stations of NATO. Then it's the HV district in Bjerkvik. It was the Workers' Party and the government parties that secured a majority, during the examination of the 2005-2008 long-term plan, for the new merged HV district of Bjerkvik – i.e. for North Nordland and Troms. Of course, we can't dictate in any way where Homeland Protection is going to practice. But it can be provocative if you choose to add all the training activities to what was the alternative location, the Setermo. Even if HV is to practice with the Army, it is important that we also use the training fields in, for example: Harstad, Ramsund and Bjerkvik. I would essentially just ask the Council of State to ensure that it does not seem that HV is still divided between Setermoen and Bjerkvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e694	I would like to make it clear that, of course, it must be primarily local home security management that facilitates the most optimal practice that the relevant Home Security District is going through. It is also important to stress that Home Security is facing a very large and extensive modernisation, which also emphasises the possibility of collaboration with military units other than Home Security. In this way, it is likely to be rational that there is a distribution of exercise activity, both between the Setermoen shooting and practice fields and other relevant shooting and practice fields. The seatermo has, as you know, the necessary paths to exercise all the forces of the HV. However, I take note of the questioner's emphasis on the importance of local anchoring. I trust that local home security management will find a good and balanced practice model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e701	Just briefly: I think it is necessary that the management of the Heimevernet communicate clearly and clearly that the new HV district should be in Bjerkvik, and that you also see if you can maintain the HV warehouse. As far as I can see, it is now also worrying that without the HV district being once established, a HV warehouse should be dismantled. I just want to ask the Council of State that the management of the Heimevertelsen now communicates clearly and clearly, possibly going to Bjerkvik and telling them how this should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e708	Here I just want briefly to note that the entire stock structure of the defense is being reviewed in order to be simplified, and precisely that we are moving from a mobilization defense to an intervention defense, that we have reduced stock needs, and part of the efficiency of the defense is, of course, just being able to cope with fewer warehouses, it is a general premise. In addition, I would like to mention that there is an evaluation of the defence's various shooting and drill fields in order to recommend who should be retained and who should be disposed of. This process is to be completed on 1 October 2005 and, of course, has to go its way, also for the training fields close to Bjerkvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e719	I have the following questions: «According to NRK Troms 12 May, «The ammunition warehouse at Olavsverms in Tromsø shall be closed this year. This means that it will no longer be possible for the Marine Defense Vessels to obtain heavier ammunition in North Norway». This is easily interpreted as a signal of a desired weakening of Norwegian interests in the northern regions. The size has debated the conversion in the Defence Department several times, but it has not been mentioned that the base would be further built down. Why was this not mentioned in the treatment of St.prp. No 42 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e728	Oil Protection is a base under the Haakonsvern Warsstation and part of the Marine Defense Operational Structure. At the same time, the Defence logistical organisation/operational division has an ammunition division at Olavsværm. In line with the modernisation of Defence, the FLO is transforming the utility service in order to adapt its needs to the operational structure, both in terms of geographical location, material structure and level of activity. As a result, the maintenance and administration of ammunition is concentrated in fewer locations. For the Departments of Maritime Defence in North Norway, this means that they will mainly receive ammunition supplies from Ramsund and Trondenes, bases that are also located in North Norway. This is in line with the Government’s description of the effectiveness of the Defence Logistics and Support Activities in St.prp. No 42 for 2003–2004, to which the Stortingen joined last spring. The organisational and personnel solutions for the supply service have been for local treatment between stakeholders twice in the autumn of 2004 and discussions and negotiations in the winter and spring of 2005. The new supply organisation shall be in place in the autumn of 2005. The Ammunition Service will be brought together in Ramsund and Trodenes in North Norway, with a corresponding reduction by the FLO Ammunition Department at Olavsvermitter. The Inspector-General for Maritime Defence, who is responsible for the operational maritime defence, supports this improvement in the efficiency of the logistics and support activities in North Norway. The reorganisation will provide the FLO with an efficient supply service, which will be able to deliver ammunition to maritime defence vessels at the agreed location, in a timely manner and at the appropriate cost. I would also like to remind you that the Government of St.prp. No 42 just proposed adding the Coast Guard Command to the Olav Protection, which would have strengthened the operational activity at the base. However, the size did not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e741	I thank you for your answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the coastal hunters were proposed to Olavsværnd, but the Stortinget did not adopt this. But there's also nothing to say that the Storting wanted to reduce the activity of Olavsværk by shutting down the ammunition warehouse. Neither is it mentioned in the proposition from the Government. It is not mentioned in a single word, so I have to say that I am a little surprised at the way the Council of State is now presenting this matter in the Questionnaire. If this is the case here, is it mentioned in the revised state budget? That's where you have the opportunity to talk about it. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it is unfortunate that during the process of conversion new drops are constantly being lost outside the ordinary messages given to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e750	With regard to the design of the organisation FLO, a significant part of this has now been delegated to the defence management, which develops its solutions in close cooperation with relevant organisations. However, there was a very clear premise in St.prp. No 42 that the defense would reorganize, from that approx. 60 pst. of the activities of the defence are support activities and 40 pst. operations, to the contrary. It is precisely that emphasis is placed on improving the efficiency of support activities, as is done here on the ammunition side, where two sites in North Norway are managed instead of three, a reduction supported by the Marine Defence Inspector-General, because it simply frees up resources for more operational activities. I think this procedure is entirely in line with what underlies St.prp. No 42. But I would like to stress that the presence in North Norway is a high priority from this government. It also applies in the locations selected for the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e759	I think it's a little strange that you could say that you're prioritizing presence in North Norway high, when you're actually laying down, from three to two locations, because as you're now moving forward, the next question you're really going to ask is, when is there no one left? I think it is quite strange that you cannot inform the Storting about such a major structural change as the Minister of Defence here suggests. There is evidence that the Minister of Defence is running his own race in this area too. When it comes to restructuring outside the ordinary propositions in the future, will the Council of State ensure that the Storting is properly informed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e768	I always find it both useful and important to inform Stortinget about the ongoing conversion, both by the logistics organisation and by the Defence Military Organisation. However, it is not that all individual adjustments between stocks and structural units are the subject of large-scale decisions. A good part of these have actually been delegated to the Defence Military Organisation. What is important is that the operational needs of the three sectors of defence, including maritime defence, are actually met. That's what the government is doing when we focus both on the marine hunters in Tjeldsund, the coast hunters in Harstad, increased allied training in Porsanger, upgraded Orion aircraft that can support the Coast Guard in its activity, new coastal guard vessels with increased budgets and significant new investments in maritime defence such as MTBs and frigates. It's just to be able to be present in the north. But it's not the number of warehouses or log units that give operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e775	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e782	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘The farmers are concerned that the profitability of traditional family farms and small farms is declining, the use sizes of which are seen by many as glued in Building Norway. The farmers are food producers and are responsible for an active district policy. Does the Council of State consider that farmers have cause for concern about the agricultural policy being pursued, or does he believe that today's agricultural policy is consistent with the desire for a viable rural policy and a living Building Norway?»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e791	It is with some wonder that I record that the representative Bastesen asks if I think there is reason for concern about the agricultural policy of the Government and I. I don't think so, on the contrary. We are pursuing that policy precisely because we believe it is the right policy in relation to the challenges facing industry and the countryside, and with a necessary balance of the various cross-cutting considerations facing all policies. And as Bastesen has probably registered, this government has done so without interruption in the negotiations with agricultural organisations for four years. The policy objective is precisely to facilitate viable rural areas with a wide range of economic activity in the future, to enable those who wish to invest in an industry based on agricultural property to do so, to facilitate increased profitability, and to increase opportunities that were previously untapped. It is not possible to imagine viable settlements ahead on the basis of a picture of the old traditional agriculture with a locked structure without changes over time. Among other things, because we are a high-cost country with difficult production conditions in an increasingly open, technologically evolving economy, development is necessary – progress towards more efficient and competitive agriculture, but also a more diverse agricultural sector that exploits the market opportunities available, based on the many resources and interests of agricultural holdings. The answer to the first term of the question is no, and the answer to the second term of the question is yes. The policy is consistent with the desire for a living Building Norway. It shall, among other things, facilitate it also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e807	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Perhaps I can help him a little on the road when he is so surprised at my question. Does the year’s agricultural policy have such an angle that it is the uses of food production, including the minor uses — the most vulnerable uses — in North Norway, in the West and in the East and in the valleys within, that come out best? Is the agricultural policy now pursued by the Government an expression of the future management and transfer of property of natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e814	I can show that we made an agreement with both trade and trade unions in agriculture just before Pentecost. When we agree with the parties – farmers’ own representatives – we must assume that it is the right policy that is being adopted. I want to stress again what I said in my answer, that the cooperative government has concluded agreements with the agricultural organisations continuously for four years, and that is history. There are no other governments that have managed to deliver as much harmony in agricultural policy as this represents, and I think this is the right answer to the challenges. It's going to be a little bit more effective use. We see that because at least many years have passed since the desire to invest in agriculture has been greater than it is now. The bet is great. In addition, there are too many who charge for alternatives. This is developing a more robust agriculture for the countryside – along the coast, in North Norway and in the West – than we have had in the past, and we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e821	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The green spots I get to rent if they're in a farm, and the brown spots that have come in place, if they're not there. According to the researchers, the Ministry of Agriculture has for a number of years reduced the appropriations allocated to the state plant institutes carrying out research on new plant varieties. There have recently been suggestions to leave the ownership of plant seed to a few, but especially to one large company. Will the Council of State increase the appropriations allocated to the plant institutes and conduct a discussion on the conversion of ownership of plant seed to the Stortinget? What significance will such a conversion have for farmers’ future incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e830	There's a completely different reality the representative here is dealing with. To that end, I can say that plant research in Norway is extensive, and the Stortinget has just been briefed on through the revised national budget, and through a major reorganisation in which all plant research is to be coordinated in something called Bioforsk. There will be an even more powerful research instrument by ensuring that we have up-to-date knowledge and new knowledge of the necessary plant research, including: on biological research, aimed at strengthening agriculture and making it more sustainable and profitable over time. The question of who will own future varieties and take the costs of developing future varieties – not those we have today, but those to develop in the future – is another and very comprehensive issue, which has recently been at the hearing. Of course, the size will be made aware of whether the Government intends to promote a changed policy in this area. The government hasn't. It is only a draft consultation that has now been out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e842	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘When the Veterinary Agreement was adopted, it was a clear condition for the approval of the Storting that sufficient resources were allocated to the effective implementation of the necessary national control measures to prevent a deterioration in the health status of humans and animals. In 2004, Norway was below the number of tests required by the EU to maintain its status in Europe. What is the strategy of the Council of State to maintain good Norwegian animal health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e851	On the one hand, the questions raised by the representative, Mr Enoxen, concern surveillance programmes taken in the light of requirements laid down in EEA-based legislation and, on the other, national measures implemented in addition to those resulting from the EEA obligations of Norway. Food surveillance implements about 70 different programmes to monitor the state of food management. A number of these were established as compensatory measures for the extension of Annex 1 to the EEA Agreement, as set out in the Annex to this Agreement. St. pp. No 6 for 1998-1999. In line with what is stated in St.prp. No 1 for 2004–2005, and as part of the streamlining work, the Food Safety Authority carries out a review of all the programmes carried out by the various establishments included in the Food Safety Authority. The programmes have also been assessed in relation to international commitments and cost-benefit effects of the programmes. Some of these programmes have already been phased out or reduced in 2005. Programmes that have been removed or reduced will, in the opinion of the Food Safety Authority, have minor adverse effects in relation to the objectives set for monitoring and control. In the case of samples required by the EU, there has been a multi-year trend requiring increased sampling, especially in the TSE area. TSEs include both bovine and scrapie in small ruminants. The figures for both BSE and scrapie tests show that Norway is slightly below the requirements. The variation is greatest in the case of scrapie in small ruminants. Sampling requirements are volume-largest for small ruminants. In practice, there have been long-standing problems in investigating self-dead animals to the extent required by the legislation. The reason for this situation is complex. For example, I can. mention purely practical aspects such as the absence of warnings from animal owners and long distances. Norway regularly submits statistical reports and is in continuous dialogue with ESA, the Commission and the other EEA countries on these issues. We have not received any signals indicating that the deviations in sampling would endanger Norway's status. The EU has recently adopted acts in the field of TSEs leading to increased costs of sampling small ruminants. The Government has followed this up in proposals for revised national budgets. Through the food management reform and the establishment of the Food Authority, we have been given one oversight that can see different risk factors in relation to both animal and public health throughout the food chain. This allows, to a greater extent than in the past, targeting measures to maximise animal health impact. The opinion of the Food Safety Authority is that animal health in Norway is very good and that we have good control of the situation. The results of the monitoring and control programmes are very satisfactory and there is no evidence that our good animal health status has changed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e872	What the Council of State now says, should be very reassuring. When this is not fully done, it is partly due to a letter received by the Council of State on 22 April this year from the Office for the Coordination of Animal Health on import, where they point out the importance of good animal health both in relation to being able to impose strict requirements on imports of animals, and not least in relation to exports of, for example: germination material, which is being carried out. They point out in this letter that, after the establishment of the Food Safety Authority, it is the impression of the livestock industry that the understanding of the importance of this work is insufficient. This letter, a copy of which the Business Committee has received, claims that the reduction in the number of programmes and the number of tests has gone too fast and too fast in relation to the line that should be used. I record what the Government says in the revised, but my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State follow up on the claims made in this letter, and see if there is a need to strengthen its efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e879	I want to get to grips with what the representative started on his supplementary question, namely whether this answer provides a basis for calming the representative. I mean it definitely does. It's good animal health, the situation is under control, and it's under constant review of the best professionals we have. If the situation requires increased resource effort, the Government will take it into account. Such a situation was now at this revised national budget, granted to the Government 5 million. extra kr to implement the new TSE testing requirements. I would like to stress that we have an up-to-date and good food supervision, which continuously assesses the situation, all views and perceptions, and makes a professional assessment of this. The strength now compared to a few years ago, is that we have a common food control system that can see this whole range of trades at a time and ensure that the money is inserted where they have the greatest dietary benefit, and where it is most necessary to ensure and provide such soothing signals that I have the basis to give here today. I feel sure that this is being followed up in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e886	There is no doubt that we have a good animal health record, and the fact that we have such a good animal health record is because we have carried out strict import controls and strong preventive work. It is therefore necessary not only to provide additional money for programmes or tests that we are required to take, but also to the highest extent to focus on prevention activities. It is, in my view, the most important part of a long-term perspective in relation to maintaining good animal health. It is precisely there, in relation to the long-term work on animal health care, that organisation points out that they feel that the focus of food surveillance is not sufficient. I record that the Council of State is satisfied with what the Food Authority is doing. Let's hope that in a long-term perspective there will also be equal reason to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e893	I share that hope, and I'm going to promise the Government that it will do what it can to make this hope come true.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e902	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the context of the treatment of new criminal law, the Committee was involved in cases of irregularity which has committed serious crime. In this context, it was referred to the RIBO Attack Centre in Saltdal. The Committee also promoted a unanimous proposal on agreements relating to the implementation of compulsory care, compulsory mental health protection and §12 soning of the Penal Code. What will the Council of State do to follow up the wishes of the Storting and to refer to, among other things, RIBO Attractor and their competence?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e911	The Penal Code states that persons who have been judged to be unpredictable should not be sentenced to imprisonment. A change to the penal code which entered into force on 1 January 2002 introduced three new specific forms of reaction: judgment on the transfer of custody to the compulsory mental health protection of psychotic offenders for the purpose of compulsorily providing care for illegitimate mentally retarded persons The special reaction to custody may be attributed to persons who have committed serious crime and who are judged to be imputable, cf. Section 39(c) of the penal code. It would be mainly appropriate to establish measures in the municipality of residence, but in cases where this is not possible, measures may be established in another municipality or institution. In this case, which municipality or institution it may be useful to use, the specific needs of each case are assessed. Judging by mandatory mental health protection and compulsory care is relevant for offenders who at the time of the offence were highly psychotic or mentally retarded, and, consequently, punishable by the penal code § 44. Criminals convicted of mandatory mental health protection are subject to the provisions of the Mental Health Act. For as long as he is under forced detention, this must be in an institution approved for compulsory mental health protection. This means, among other things: the institution must be staffed by qualified personnel and have a material standard which is adequate for mandatory mental health protection. In the case of compulsory-care convictions, this special reaction shall be carried out in a specialised health care unit designed for that purpose. If the purpose of the judgment so requires and safety reasons do not contradict it, the profession may, in accordance with detailed rules given by the King, agree to carry out the care outside the profession. Such an agreement could also be concluded with different reinsurance undertakings if the professional deems it to be professionally sound. It is the ordinary health service that is responsible for the treatment of prisoners in prison. For convictions sentenced to imprisonment, the sentence may be carried out in exceptional cases under Section 12 of the Penal Code by means of a happy stay in an institution. Examples of such institutions are treatment collectives, nursing homes, after-care homes or the like. It is assumed that the scheme is safe and that there is no reason to believe that convictions will be avoided. In some cases, agreements with institutions are made in the case of compulsory care, detention or prison sentences. These agreements are based on the specific needs of individuals and a thorough professional evaluation of treatment provision. I would like, among other things: in dialogue with the health authorities, follow up the request of the Storting. In such cases, RIBO Attribution Centres and other specialised institutions may be an important complement to State institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e940	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good answer. It is well that the diversity of criminals is as great as the diversity of this hall in many ways. It also means that we need to focus on society’s security needs. This means that there must be a wide range of measures that can be taken, among other things. to secure society. What we're talking about here is a borderline between the justice and health sectors that makes it possible to face challenges professionally, but perhaps also organisationally. I know that the Minister of Justice is concerned that the boundaries should not be so marked, but that there should be an opportunity between the various professional bodies. Therefore, I would like to know if the Minister of Justice has any particular thoughts that it is that the financing system today for this type of criminal implementation and Section 12 are ready, as there is a lack of clarity in which the Minister of Justice sees that further work is needed to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e947	The representative discusses how to achieve good administrative cooperation, and I have also found reason to mention specifically in relation to the revised national budget. It is an area where the representative has shown a commendable commitment. The best reasons for seeking a solution within the healthcare system for unpredictability will apply when they clearly commit social harm but not dangerous crime. And if you're going to go into this, you're going to have to have the dialogue that I've outlined with the Ministry of Health. We are now having such a dialogue with the Ministry of Health and other interested parties, and then the question is whether there can be arrangements for unpredictable people who commit such a crime. Section 12 is the framework for this, and the point is simply to make sure that we do not get grey areas, but that we get it so that good, operational people within the health system, within health companies and within criminal care can create cooperative situations. I myself have been in a number of such practical situations. I can assure the representative that I am putting pressure on us to get into such management agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e952	I thank you for a new answer. There is no doubt about what the Minister of Justice has to say, that it may sometimes be difficult to find good solutions based on the existence of a code of conduct and the need to ensure legal certainty for people who are unencumbered by criminal law. It does mean that knowledge and insight are crucial to choosing the right solutions. The Minister of Justice now addressed another issue, namely the revision of the national budget, and from 2001 the Justice Committee has focused, among other things, on the subject. on the possibility of building a new prison in Inner Salten, and it is also mentioned in the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget. Since it may be located relatively close to RIBO Attractive Centre in Saltdal, I would like to ask: does the Minister of Justice see that there can be a common gain here from such start-up, which can benefit not only those who are going to zone normally, but also those who need specifically organised criminal execution?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e959	I can confirm, as the representative and I have long wanted, that in the revised national budget, it is provided for the design of a new prison with 100-125 seats in the inner salt, and then within the housing lease financing scheme for state buildings. We have also said, as the representative is aware, that this should be seen in connection with Bodø prison. We're actually doing some exciting things in this area right now. We have e.g. a system in which we try to capture young people before they risk falling into crime, because we, among other things, in Bodø and the surrounding area have a very good and open relationship between child protection, police and other good forces. I see it as establishing a professional institution in an area, and it is also necessary to create practical cooperation arrangements in relation to the professional institution. I don't want to shoot anything in relation to the Salt, but we have e.g. an administrative cooperation agreement between the Trondheim prison and the municipality of Trondheim. Such agreements to build bridges and ensure that practitioners meet practitioners are my ideal, and the representative has now skillfully and eloquently drawn the Salten landscape out clearly for the country's Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e968	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e971	There is a lot of exciting research and development that takes place in the Nordic centres for excellent research. My question is: ‘What can the Council of State do to ensure that the Nordic centres of excellence can be further strengthened as a research environment in an international context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e978	The answer is that the government and the council do a lot with it. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, will contribute to the Nordic region becoming both an attractive and world-leading research region and a platform for further enhanced international cooperation. This emphasis on Nordic research cooperation is underlined in the Research Communication, which is now being discussed in Stortinget. The Nordic Council of Ministers has given increased priority to cooperation in research in recent years. The centres for excellent research are one of the four main instruments of the Council of Ministers' commitment to research cooperation. The Nordic centres for excellent research shall promote research mobility, training and exchanges between Nordic research groups through the establishment of networks with at least three Nordic countries or geographical centres. Research training shall be specifically part of one or more of the activities of the centres. The Nordic centres for excellent research are therefore important instruments for promoting the quality of research in the Nordic region. Per. Today, there are seven centres of excellence in research with which the Council of Ministers is and is funding together with the National Research Councils. In 2003, four centres under the Global Change Programme began. The programme period from 2002 to 2007 has an annual financial envelope of at least 10 million Danish kronor. Last year, three centers of molecular medicine started. This is the programming period from 2004 to 2009 and the annual funding is at least 9 million. Danish Krone. In addition to these natural sciences and medicine centres, five research schools are supported in humanities and social sciences. The research schools started in 2004 at the initiative of the Nordic Research Academy, NorFA. The aim of these research schools is to increase mobility in the Nordic countries, to strengthen the training of researchers and to develop models to improve the training of researchers in individual countries and in the Nordic countries as a whole. Each research school then has a framework grant of approx. One million. Norway kronor per year. years in the 2004-2008 timeframe. In order to streamline research cooperation between the Nordic countries, NordForsk was established in January this year as an independent body under the Education Council of Ministers. NordForsk manages R & D funds from the Nordic Council of Ministers. The funds shall be used to trigger funds from the Nordic Research Councils for joint efforts. NordForsk's success will depend on the Nordic Research Councils actively exploiting the opportunities offered by Nordic cooperation, and, as I said at the outset, the research report on treatment in Stortinget draws up this very perspective. Let me also add that NordForsk is responsible for Nordic cooperation in research and training as well as cooperation and coordination with the Nordic Innovation Centre. NordForsk shall be an organisational framework to promote cooperation between the Nordic Research Councils or equivalent research funding institutions. The Research Council has a representative in NordForsk's administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e995	I thank you for the answer, and I am very happy that the Government has focused on research and focus on Nordic cooperation. Now it is the case that the Council of State is also the Nordic Minister of Government and is responsible for it. Can the Council of State say something more about the role of NordForsk in the future, what will NordForsk use its funds to play the role that they want to play in relation to these development centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1000	I'd like to. NordForsk is expected to distribute between 60 and 70 million this year. Norwegian Krone for different cooperation in research and research education. It includes activities previously supported by the Nordic Academy of Research Education. As I was concerned, the focus should be on research areas where the Nordic countries are already strong, and where the aim is to promote research of the highest international quality. So the ambition is not only Nordic, but also international. The focus of the Nordic centres for excellent research will be one of the main instruments that NordForsk will give priority to when NordForsk is planning its strategy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1009	I'm very pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1018	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who is also the Nordic Minister for Cooperation: ‘At the Stockholm session in 2004, the Nordic Council adopted a recommendation recommending the Council of Ministers in its work on guidelines for cooperation with North-West Russia to include measures to support the indigenous population in the region. How does the Council of State assess progress in developing guidelines for cooperation with North-West Russia, and how is follow-up to the recommendation to include support for the indigenous population in the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1027	Here I have good news to update the Storing representative and Stortinget on. The Nordic Council of Ministers' guidelines for cooperation with North-West Russia were adopted by the Ministers of Cooperation already on 10 December 2004, shortly after the session. At the same time, we adopted new guidelines for cooperation with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The reason for this reorientation of what was formerly referred to as neighbourhood cooperation was the need for updates of Nordic cooperation with both North-West Russia and the Baltic countries, not least in view of the many challenges facing North-West Russia and the EU membership of the Baltic countries. Following the decision on new guidelines for North-West Russia, we are now developing a separate Russia programme for the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is planned to be sent to the Nordic Council as a proposal for a Council of Ministers in connection with the autumn session in Reykjavik. The overall ambition of the Russian programme is that Nordic cooperation with North-West Russia should become more focused and focused. As regards measures to support the indigenous population in North-West Russia, the Council of Ministers will consider this in its follow-up to the guidelines. The guidelines show that the Council of Ministers has already for several years financed various activities focusing on indigenous peoples and the environment in cooperation with the Arctic Council. The Arctic's indigenous population is included as a priority area in the Council of Ministers' own Arctic Cooperation Programme. In addition, the Council of Ministers is well in the process of strengthening dialogue and concrete cooperation with the Barents Council, which has its own working group on cooperation with indigenous peoples in the region. Here I also refer to the magnificence of the Northern Areas presented by the Government, which is being dealt with in the Storting, and which have views and proposals that tend in these areas. In addition, the co-operation ministers and the joint presidents have set up a working group to investigate how to establish a dialogue with Russian co-operatives and authorities with a view to the exchange of information on Sami issues of common interest. In this context, a seminar is to be held during 2005 and a separate action plan for this work will be drawn up. We expect that, not least because both the co-operation ministers and the joint presidents have an expressed aim and willingness to improve the measures. Finally, just for the sake of order, let me also mention that the support schemes that the Council of Ministers has today targeting North-West Russia can, of course, also be used by the indigenous population for indigenous matters and questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1042	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. This year we are in, Norway has the Presidency of the Barents Council, and 2005 has been designated as an indigenous year in Barents Cooperation. Next year, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and Norway takes over the Presidency of the Arctic Council in the autumn of 2006. Here, then, Norway has a very good opportunity to put its clear mark on cooperation in the north. The indigenous peoples should, in my opinion, remain high on the agenda in that context, as they were during the year's Presidency of the Barents Council. I would like to ask the Council of State how he views the possibility of coordinating this work in order to ensure that there are results out of it, and that this way you can put a Norwegian mark on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1051	To be fully up-to-date, I had the pleasure of celebrating May 17th with Norwegian and Nordic friends in Helsinki. In that context, I had a meeting with Minister of Cooperation Enestam. We have just discussed what the representative refers to here, that Norway and next year will have central leadership positions linked to the Council of Ministers, to the Arctic Council and to the Barents Council, while Finland will hold the Presidency of the EU in the second half of next year. This means that Norway and Finland, which have so many common interests, have opportunities to put both north-west Russia and the northern dimension even higher on the agenda. Included in this is, of course, the problem of indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1056	I thank you again for the answer. I think this sounds very good. I've had the pleasure of working on some of these questions myself. What I'm recording is that the challenges for people in these areas are many, but also that opportunities are great. For this reason, there must be pressure on this work in the coming years, so that assistance can be provided that will produce results in terms of employment and well-being in the longer term. The aim must be to make the best possible use of these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1063	Does the Council of State want a last word?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1066	In such a case, the representative Bendiksen and the undersigned largely shared objectives and ambitions. I can interpret him there that he is very pleased that this government is doing what it does – understanding that we will also continue the useful work!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1082	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1089	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as in the rest of the country, are the memorial stones after construction of e.g. bridges in the process of disappearing. When new bridges are built or reinforced, these stones are often not taken care of. These are ‘cultural memories’ that should be given a site at the site. What will the Council of State do to take care of these stones, which tells a lot about the wear and tear of the time, and not least the building skills according to the conditions of the time?»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1098	The State Road Service is responsible for ensuring cultural historical considerations in the development, construction and operation and maintenance of the road network. The preservation of cultural memories is done in ordinary construction and maintenance planning processes. The state Road Service is also responsible for caring for its own cultural memories. For information purposes, the State Road Service in 2002 developed a national protection plan for roads, bridges and road-related cultural memories. About 350 objects are on the protection plan and will be subjected to a rescue process. In the preliminary work, more than 1000 roads, bridges and other objects were recorded and evaluated. Memory stones are stones with inscriptions that tell of important events, and are set up in retrospect. The monuments provide knowledge and experience and should be preserved in their original cultural environment. Best practice should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1107	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My question comes from a bicycle ride I had a while ago. When you cycle, you get a little bit lower, closer to the road and closer to the bridge than when you drive. I then discovered some stones at a bridge, and I discovered that at other bridges. I stopped and went down and looked. It was stones from the time the bridge was built – it stood when and how, etc. The bridge has been upgraded, and the road has been lifted, so it was 1-2 meters down. That was also the case in the other places. The stones are down there. I see in the answer to the Council of State that it is registered. But that was in 2002, now we're in 2005. The stones are still there. Then my follow-up question: how far have you come, and what has been done in practice? Is there anything more than just registering this? The memorial stones are still down there, and I think that with simple grip – not so much money necessarily – we could have raised the stones and perhaps put new paint in the writing on them, for general use and joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1116	Now I don't know about this specific case as it is here. But the work done in the State Road Service in this area is constantly being followed up. I have traveled a lot around the country and have been impressed by much of the work that has been done to preserve important cultural memories and monuments. It's clear that there's a lot of work behind just registering these types of objects. As my answer in the meantime has not been taken for granted to preserve absolutely everything, but it is important to register as much as possible, and to assess to what extent you have the ability to take care of these objects and at the same time to do the job you are going to do in order to facilitate good and safe delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1123	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We fully agree that a lot has been done. There are many nice rest areas that are made, and there are many nice stops that are made next to bridges or in connection with bridges. In the case of many of these stones, it won't cost a lot of dollars, maybe almost nothing at all, to lift them up, create a little foundation and bring some black paint and get the inscription rewritten. I think those who live around such a bridge or such a stone will feel a little proud of this. Many have also had relatives in that construction process far back in time. I think it's a good idea to honor those who have worn to get to this, if you use a few dollars. I believe the Council of State and I fully agree that it is worth it. I hope the Council of State follows up this. I will at least contact those who have this to do in my home country, so that this work is carried out. It's an important job, although it might not mean that much. Culturally, that means a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1134	It's clear that many of us know pride in history, not least the story we have in the construction of both road and rail. These are areas that, not least, the state road service is concerned with itself. It's part of the story to the State Road Service as well. I can assure the representative Bredvold that this is a question I am concerned about, and that we will take it further, without commenting on this specific matter, as I do not know enough about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1139	Questions 8, 9 and 10 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1146	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In VG 10 May we can read that a landowner is going the way of justice to prohibit public access to the side of Thorsholmen visible from the landowner’s property. He feels delighted and the victim for unwanted insight and sight. The rich take advantage of a poor community economy to get along in the archipelago. The Government has removed the system of legal assistance to municipalities in connection with conflicts of use of the coastal zone and of public rights. Will the Council consider reintroducing this scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1155	The arrangement with a promise to provide legal assistance in matters relating to conflicts in the coastal zone was in force between 2000 and 2002 and was part of the so-called coastal zone project carried out by the Directorate for Nature Management. The project has been completed, and I do not see any grounds for reintroducing the scheme. The system was a testing scheme with legal assistance for 15 selected coastal municipalities. This allowed municipalities to have access to qualified legal expertise to assess the issues involved. This scheme was useful for many municipalities. The scheme's nature as part of a project is underlined by the fact that it does not cover all municipalities. Partly based on the testing scheme with legal assistance, the project produced manuals on legal and planning issues, etc. on the practice and follow-up of planning and building laws and open-air law in relation to municipalities' responsibilities in coastal zone matters. This has made the decision-making base clearer and increased awareness of legislation applicable to the use and protection of coastal sonals. In other words, the guide has meant that municipalities can carry out their work with greater professional certainty. The project thus provided a basis for improving the efficiency of local authorities and county councillors in dealing with dispensations and illegal closures. As I see it, the beach zone project is finished, but the beach zone work is going on. The government has done some good for its work in the beach zone of St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005 Government environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The government wants an offensive and forward-looking beach zone management. It is therefore necessary to focus on the beach zone and to challenge the municipalities again to a strict practice in managing planning and dispensation. State and regional authorities have important roles in implementing an active coastal zone policy. The Ministry will follow the construction activity in the 100-metre belt carefully in the future. In the light of the reports, the Ministry will take initiatives to follow-up the country where developments are not satisfactory. Illegal closures that prevent traffic along the sea are an ever-increasing problem, and municipalities have an important task of cleaning up these conditions. We will also continue to work to secure and facilitate the most attractive areas in the coastal zone. I point out that, in the revised national budget, we have proposed to secure significant defence awards for outdoor events. We will also establish a nationwide coastal zone management network to raise awareness of these issues across the country. We have an active coastal zone policy. I also know that the representative of Klungland is strongly involved in these issues. Although we do not want to deal with the schemes he is asking questions about here, I can assure you that we will actively pursue the policy within the coastal zone in line with the guidelines we have put in the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1183	In the budget for this year, the Workers' Party proposed to establish a 60 million legal aid scheme. kr. We did that because we see a frightening development in the area of the beach zone. As rich people get more money because of the government's tax law policy, and as municipalities get less money because tax relief is given to the richest people in this country, municipalities are less able to follow legal action taken in the beach zone, often paid by rich people who can afford to secure the best lawyers. It is at the expense of welfare services in municipalities if they are to use the money to follow up on this rather than to spend it on welfare tasks. Is it not the Council of State that the municipalities should be able to follow up such cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1190	I fully agree with the representative of Klungland that it is important that the municipalities are able to operate the beach zone in a good way. That is what we want, through our policies, to facilitate, among other things. The coastal zone network is an example of that. We believe that precisely through such a network, the municipalities will secure this. But there is a wholeheartedness in this policy. It is important – and there I have been clear both in relation to the statesmen and those in charge of this – that there be objections to the issues that conflict with national policy when it comes to coastal zones. So in the matters in question here, we have to object, and we work to ensure that the municipalities are better able to carry out that task. So I agree with Rolf Terje Klungland in this case. But I don't think that this project, which was supposed to be a short-term project, and we're already taking advantage of it when we go on with the knowledge, is the right tool now to improve beach zone policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1195	For every day that goes, we now see a development of settlement in the beach zone that is totally unacceptable. I am pleased that the Government makes proposals to secure defence property for the public, but it is only a patch on the wound in relation to the measures that we in the Workers' Party are engaged in should have been done in relation to stronger government governance in terms of building in the beach zone. Now two environmental protection ministers in this government have talked about having stronger governance and a stronger willingness to preserve the coastal zone for the public. We've had a period of four years where there's been a lot of talk, but little action. I have to ask the Council of State: if he is very concerned about preserving the beach zone as much as possible for the public, what kind of action has he now planned to stop the development that we see this year in relation to the new construction and privatisation of the beach zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1202	It is not correct that we do not have the tools we need today. In specific cases, the county has a good opportunity to raise objections. In my dialogue with the statesmen, I have made it clear that I could wish for a strict practice. And I now see that being followed up by the statesmen. I had a meeting with the County Environmental Protection Tab last week where I addressed this issue. This means that in specific cases this will be followed up. When it comes to planning matters, the representative of Klungland is also well aware of their entry into the Ministry of the Environment. At the time I have our council, in all the matters I have had on my table, I have chosen to follow the councillor's advice. For me, strict practice is important, and today we have the tools to pursue such a strict policy. I want to do that, it has also been clear in relation to municipalities, county councils and county councillors, who can do it on my behalf in concrete matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1213	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The serious accident at the nuclear recovery facility in Sellafield has also caused concern in Norway, as any discharge into the sea may also have consequences for us. In 1994, the British secretly started to drop large amounts of technetium 99, a radioactive substance, directly into the sea, and as early as 1996, we were able to measure elevated values along the Norwegian coast. Why has the Government not ensured that there is an alert agreement when radioactive substances are released from the Sellafield plant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1222	An agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom on early warning of nuclear accidents and the exchange of information related to the operation and lease of nuclear installations was signed in 1987. The agreement applies to loopholes which result in the emission of radioactive substances which may have consequences for the other party in terms of securing or radiological consequences. The agreement also applies to the warning of major changes in nuclear installations. The British Environment Minister, Elliot Morley, has informed me that the leakage from the Thorp reprocessing plant in Sellafield on 18 April has not resulted in a risk of emission to the environment or increased radiation doses to humans. It is therefore claimed from the British authorities that the leakage is not covered by the alert agreement. I have even been promised that the warning procedures will now be tightened up, so that Norway will soon also be notified of such accidents that do not lead to emissions to the environment. I would like to ask the State's Radiation Protection Agency to assess whether there is also a need for a change in the Norwegian alert agreement with the United Kingdom, so that it becomes clear that it is also five on such events.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1233	Thanks for the answer. I think it is very satisfactory to hear that a review of the agreement that is actually there, but that obviously does not work well enough. I think there's a great need to do that. I've been worried about the emissions we've seen of technetium 99 for a very long time. The minister knows well that there has been an commitment both from me and from many others that led to the cessation of emissions. But precisely in the light of the fact that such an emission could happen deliberately, I ask this question. Is it that, despite an agreement, the British authorities do not take this seriously? For the discharge we have seen over many years, has caused us radioactivity along our coast in sea and benthic animals and seaweed. Is it such that in the event of a discharge, Norwegian authorities will receive rapid notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1238	I'm aware of the commitment Kristoffersen has had to Sellafield. I would therefore like to bear in mind that when there is a debt to be emitted by technetium 99 from Sellafield, they are now being cleared, as the Norwegian government has demanded, so when it relates to the technetium 99th, we now see a satisfactory process. The current leakage was from the second part of the plant in Sellafield, which is linked to nuclear fuel. We have now promised better warnings. The British Minister himself could inform me that they wanted a better warning. That's what I thought was very positive. But I have also asked the State Radiation Protection Agency to conduct a review in order to assess whether the alert agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1243	I think it's good to hear that it's going on, but I've been persistently sceptical about whether the British authorities are actually taking this deal seriously. There is little doubt that without the pressure from many governments, parliamentarians and interest groups, not least Bellona in Norway, we would not have been there today. I also noticed in the interview last year that the European Commission instructed the British authorities, or the Sellafield plant, to report half-yearly on the safety measures put in place and the progress in relation to them. I wonder if the Norwegian Government has any contact with the EU authorities in this area to make sure that the UK authorities are actually following up on what they are obliged to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1248	It is known that it is not only Norwegian government powers that have responded to the lack of information that has been in this matter. We know that the European Commissioner for Energy has responded to this, and we also know that the German authorities have done so. There's also a dialogue, and I think it's important that we face more pressure against British government powers in this matter. We have won an important saying through the technetium 99 part, but I think this accident shows the environmental risk of the plant in Sellafield, and it has a lot to say for Norway in terms of environmental policy. So I want to keep up the pressure we have today against British government powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-18.ana.ud1291e1253	With that is the last word said in today's Question Time.
