ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e45	The representative, Torbjørn Andersen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e48	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, John I. Alvheim, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, to make proposals to amend the law on professional transport by motor vehicle and vessel, the professional transport law, so that it is permitted to drive a bus after the age of 70.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e53	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e67	I will not spend a long time explaining our views on this matter, but some brief points still need to be included. As the matter arises, the Progress Party wants to vote against this change and this extension. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the Sametinget should be laid down in Karasjok, precisely because no Norwegian citizen, regardless of race, religion or ethnicity, should be accommodated with special democratic forums. We believe that there is no need for own national policies or legislation for Norwegian co-workers. We therefore believe that there is no need to extend the level of administration to include Tysfjord. Although the Basic Act § 110a states that provision should be made to enable the Sami people to secure and develop their language, culture and social life, this does not mean that an increasingly large area and an increasing number of municipalities should be added to the Sami administrative area. This is going to be an explanation of vote. The progress party wants to vote against the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e78	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e94	The City Laws shall preserve city names as cultural memories, provide them with a practical and decent form of writing, and contribute to the knowledge and active use of the names. In the proposed proposal from the Government, emphasis is placed on changing the laws so that the proceedings are simplified, and clearer and more appropriate and functional indications are given. The Committee supports the intentions of the proposal for a simplification and improvement of the City Name Law. It is important to take care of the part of the cultural heritage that city names make up. This applies as a basis for cultural and civilisation historical research, and it is also important that city names on maps, signs, in registers and in other public contexts are provided with an appropriate form of writing. The way of writing city names in public use has often created commitment and debate. There have been many years of collecting city names. The Committee supports the Ministry that before considering the need for the collection of city names, it is necessary to provide an overview of the city names already collected. It is a good idea to assess whether the new competence centre for Norwegian languages can coordinate the tasks of eliminating the need for the collection and organisation of the site name work. From the time we got the city name promise, we have 25 pst. the complaint cases concern the use of bound or unbound form. This rule has been strictly practised, and the majority support the proposal to soften the legislation at this point. The majority also supports the clarification in the proposition that bound form is to be applied in all natural names if the bound form is in live use in the target. The bound or unbound form can be used in gardening and usernames, city names, administrative names and communication names. The bound form shall be used if it is in live use in the speech speech today. The unbound form shall be used if it is in live use in the speech speech today and is well incorporated in writing. If it is inappropriate, a great deal of emphasis should be placed on the question from the owner of the private property or municipality. The Committee further agrees that a point of purpose should be included in the laws and that the geographical scope should not be changed. The Committee also supports the proposal for new rules on the protection of names and names. The Committee does not support the proposal to amend Section 4 in such a way that the ‘localised pronunciation’ is changed to the ‘local speaking form’ of the name. A co-conspirator's committee thinks this can open up to a number of interpretations, and that assertions could stand up to assertions, which in turn could lead to several conflicts. The Committee believes that the wording of today's law takes better account of city names as protective cultural memories. Furthermore, ‘downstream opinion’ is well incorporated and is a unique term in city name review and standardisation. A collection committee is behind the setting to keep § 4 of the day. Everyone in the committee, except SV, supports the Department's proposals to amend § 6. The amendment will reduce the number of decision-making bodies to municipalities, county councils, state maps and those required by law or regulation to establish written standards. The majority believe that this could lead to simplification and better coordination. A person shall pay particular attention to the sight of owners or parties in the standardisation of city names. In the current legislation, there is no provision for reopening matters. The Committee endorses the proposal made by the Ministry to include such a rule in order to facilitate the re-examination of a case in the event of new information. The Committee also endorses the proposal for a new Section 9, which will require all bodies of state, county, municipality and company which are fully owned by the public to establish written standards. The Committee also supports the proposal that Sami and female names be used by the public if they are used by local residents or have a commercial connection with them. In the proposal, the Ministry proposes that a provision be made in Section 12, so that the Ministry can provide regulations for the payment of information from the central city name register at the Staten Kartverk. The Committee rejects this and insists that the last paragraph of Section 12 of the proposal be deleted. Otherwise, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e132	This will probably be an explanation of vote. In the light of what I said in my previous post, that there is no need for any special arrangements in relation to the law of Norwegian co-workers, the Progress Party cannot support the second paragraph of Section 1 or the second paragraph of Section 9. This is just to explain why we're voting against these.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e139	Simplification and more functional legislation have long been needed in the area covered by the City Name Act. The government has a large majority for its proposals. The rapporteur has done a thorough job to which she has explained well, and it is not that much to add. That is why, from my point of view, there are only two brief comments to the points we found by the Christian People's Party that it was right to join in the rapporteur's amendment. One is what should be the starting point for the spelling of location names. Here was the original proposal to take into account the ‘local speech form’. The rapporteur went in to maintain existing legal wording, which says that it should be based on ‘the subliminal local opinion’. From the Christian People's Party it is important to stress that the language is also a link to those who lived before us. The language is the connection to our historical roots and is therefore also to be understood as an important cultural memory, and geographical names belong in this context. It's part of shaping our identity and creating belonging. In a globalized time when people move more than before, people travel from place to place and new ones come to, traditions are easily changed for modernity. That's why it's important that there is at least something that connects to the site. Sometimes we also feel the need to explain the origins of the different site names. From our point of view, we believe that the existing wording, the one used in the current law, that is to say, the ‘lower opinion’, is therefore better suited to securing this link back to the origin itself, i.e. ensuring that the place names express what they should once express or designate. The second point where we also give the case rapporteur our support is where we want to point out that obtaining information from the Central City Name Register is still free of charge. We can understand the need to be able to get paid in cases of major work requiring the extraction of comprehensive material. However, as far as we are concerned, students are largely users of these services, and in most cases they are not large amounts of material. That is why we have come to believe that we want to keep the principle of free even in this context. I just want to end by saying that this law is an important cultural policy instrument, and the area governed by the law is an important part of our cultural heritage, with which we are to care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e156	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e172	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e181	The reason for the government's proposal for changes to the church law is firstly that the church meeting in 2003 had some desire for changes, both that the Church of the Deaf should be accommodated in the Oslo Council of Bishops, and that there should also be greater room for experimentation. Our church democracy faces a number of challenges, and the government has set up a church/state selection, which is to make its conclusions before Christmas. Any distinction between the Church and the State must ensure the universal Church of the People. Therefore, there is a desire to make many different attempts to strengthen democracy within the Church. The majority of the Committee agrees that the proposals made by the Government through the Church Meeting are made into pilot schemes, both for the voting rights of 15-year-olds and elections. This means that the majority of the Committee has not taken a position on whether the test procedures that are are always the correct conclusions, but it is desirable to implement that type of test procedure. The Labour Party has also put in place a proposal to set up large-scale and community councils at the same time. This is a freedom the churches have today – they have the opportunity to do so. The majority of the Committee has therefore found that it is not appropriate to assess whether this should be carried out in all congregations in any case. This is a practical arrangement, which should be assessed from the congregation to the assembly. The second part is on the implementation of St.meld. No 7 for 2002-2003, ‘Truss training in a new time’. In this case, the Stortinget is invited to confirm in law what we came up with when we discussed the baptismal training. The first point is on the relationship between confirmation training and school. The legal paragraph adopted by the majority clearly sets out the principle that confirmation training should be distinguished from school time, but has nevertheless been chosen to address a practical solution in relation to a few individual cases where it is difficult to adapt to noise and special education. There are several people who have been quoted: if my principles are incompatible with reality, it is bad for reality. I'm not going to add it to anyone here, but what's going on is for the Storting to find a good principle attitude, a room for action locally that makes it possible to find a good practical arrangement that makes it possible for young people not to have problems with their freedom of choice. The second is to confirm the Government’s interpretation of the Storting’s observations and decisions in the Creeding Training in the case of SFO. I believe that is a sunny and simple matter. What amazes me greatly is SV's comments, which have an appeal to be totalitarian. When we adopted the SFO as a form of work in this room, the idea was that the children should not now engage in leisure activities other than the evening; it was to be spent with their family. The aim of the SFO was to put leisure activities into the SFO so that school days and leisure time were organised differently. Some of us who were critical of the feasibility, asked questions about whether all non-governmental organisations and any voluntary activity would fit into the SFO model that was added from this room. It's been moving away from it for miles. It has not only been admitted that non-governmental organisations will never fit into the SFO as it is now, but now it is actually forbidden for non-governmental organisations to have activities as long as the municipality has an open SFO. Today we have a law that allows us to have a private SFO operated by a community, but they are not allowed to mention anything that can approach belief training, as long as the municipal SFO is open. That means that as long as a municipal offer is open, volunteers are not allowed to talk about their beliefs. It gives some exciting perspectives on how we're going to organise our society, if SV's interpretation of our SFO comment is to stand firm. That's what I think is quite scary perspectives. From this I would recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e203	The left wants to revitalise local democracy in its programme design and is committed to allowing municipalities to hold elections at their own request in the election year. So the reason for the Left is the vitalization of local democracy. Now, however, it turns out that many more citizens vote in the council elections when these are added to the decision-making process – considerably more, i.e. the vitalisation of the local democracy of the Church. Why can't the Left then be involved in evaluating an electoral system for the councils that have clearly vitalized local democracy in the Norwegian Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e208	This is a very good example of a social-democratic short-circuit: some communities get a freedom to try out something that they think works – it works, and so everyone should do what works for someone. Now there's someone who's done that experiment. It is probably the congregations that have assessed it to be good for them. But the fact that someone has assessed something to be good for them doesn't mean that we're going to impose on all those who have judged it not to be good for themselves, to do it. That's what the Working Party is doing here. Today, the churches have that freedom. I think most of the churches have a dream of having as many voices as possible behind them, a dream that as much as possible should participate in democracy, and if they think this benefits them, they're going to try it. But this is also a lot about practical arrangements. This means, among other things: that you have to have a voice room that is to be located next to the staging room, but that should not be the same – and that is not true everywhere. So that's the social-democratic solution, that this is going to suit everyone. We have faith that those who think it's true use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e213	I often use programs when we have rounds like this. Left says in its application: ‘The education of baptism, faith and life should take place under the direction of the individual religious and life opinion society outside of education.’ But this phrase ‘should’ means that it is not so precise; one can maintain a proven discretion in law, i.e. in the provisions of the Church Act, to allow for confirmation education at school. The left has also changed its mind quite strongly since we dealt with the matter of faith training. At that time, there was a great deal of effort to avoid an unfortunate mix of roles that could reinforce the contradictions between different religious and life-view societies. Obviously, you don't have that vision. It might be interesting to know why you have changed your mind from clearly wanting to avoid unlucky role-playing to think that it is no longer so dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e223	I think it's quite understandable, and very charming, that everyone has read the program of the Left, and I think they can continue with it – it's very good there. With regard to the ‘should’ that Arne Sortevik mentioned, we believe in principle, and I believe that the law now clearly states that school and confirmation training should not be mixed. But that doesn't mean you don't have to find practical solutions where school kisses and other things warrant it. That is precisely what is in the formulation of the programme, in the draft programme of the Left. We believe that a clear distinction should be made, but that does not mean that one should not be allowed to use the boat trip for the confirmation training at the extremely small nose where you have boat traffic back and forth. We want a divorce first and foremost because it is not going to divide the children into their everyday school days. But here we're talking about small places where children are going to realize that someone is going to be at confirmation training and someone is not, regardless of whether you're trying to hide it never so well. So here it's about finding a practical order.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e228	I haven't read the program of the Left, but I've actually read what the Left was on in the Inner East. S. No 200 for 2002–03, where the left was a majority, together with the SV, the rest of the government parties and the Progress Party, and where we said that confirmation training should not be added to school time. It is an undeniable fact that it was the position of the Left last time we dealt with this matter. So you could say that it's going to be the general rule when we change the law, but it's still made an exception, and the exception is that one should not only be able to use school time, one should also be able to use school hours, that is, one should be able to take hours out and use it for religious training. I had hoped that the Left could approach this principle, as they did when we treated the Inner. S. No 200, and say that there is a clear distinction between religion education and school education. We're going to go into religious education, the Church is getting money, but we're not going to have such a mix-up into school. It was a clear premise for us, and I also perceive that was a clear premise for the Left, but now they're obviously going on chords with previous positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e237	I mentioned a quote in my post, that if my ideas are incompatible with reality, things get worse for reality, and now Rolf Requam made it his quote. We have a clear principle. We have run that principle both in the earlier debates, in the previous speeches and in the previous one. That is the clear principle of the legal text, but then we are also willing to find practical arrangements in which the principle is adapted to reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e242	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e246	Da Ot.prp. No 30, if changes in the church law, fell on the committee's table, it was probably few of us who considered this matter to contain something special explosive, but it did. Initially, I would like to pay tribute to the Committee for the highest tribute it gives to the system of the same election day for the council elections and the roll-call elections. The Committee is pleased that this has led to a significantly higher turnout for the Joint Council elections. So far, everyone agrees, but it's over from here, too. The Labour Party is disappointed that the Committee will not be in favour of our proposal to ask the Government for an assessment of amending Section 2-1 of the Church Act so that elections to new councils and voting decisions are held at the same time. So we've asked for an assessment. A joint committee approves of a successful attempt, but to be part of an assessment of changing the law is to go too far. Well, well. The proposal proposes, as an attempt to give 15-year-olds the right to vote in the Council of Association elections. The Labour Party says that it is inappropriate to introduce different age voting rights for different public elections, and as a consequence, we will also support the Government's conclusion that the electoral age of the council should be 18 years. The Labour Party will support the proposal to open direct elections to the Council of Commons and the Council of Bishops on the basis of the desire for more democracy in the Norwegian Church. On the other hand, the Labour Party doubts whether an arrangement whereby half of the members of the council are replaced every two years will lead to greater continuity in the Council. From our point of view, the proposal lacks a thorough overall assessment, and further, the proposition does not put in any convincing argument for the proposal, to put it that way. The Labour Party will therefore not, at this stage, support such a proposal. So to the confirmation training. The working party has, and still has, the position that, in exceptional cases, it must be possible to provide confirmation training in school time. Special circumstances can be young people with special needs and with organized training, or, like in the part of the country I come from, where some young people first have to travel by boat and then by bus to get to the town and school. Then I support what Skei Grande says, that it must be allowed to think practically and to facilitate practical solutions. We are pleased that the majority of the Committee has turned around and now supports the Labour Party in this. In the case of faith training and SFO, there was also a theme during the treatment of St. reported. No 7. for 2002-2003, Truss training in a new era and the Workers' Party maintains its position that belief training should not be part of the offer provided under the SFO scheme. The working party is afraid this can give an unfortunate mix of what is school leisure services, and what is the Church's offer. On the other hand, the Labour Party has never intended that the Kingdom of Norway should only allow children to receive religious training in the afternoon, that religious training should be only an evening activity. Such a position I think would be contrary to human rights, and would be strange to me. But we don't want any religious training within the range offered by the SFO. I am therefore pleased that the majority supports this position, and that the majority, all except SV, clearly say about this in their comment, and I quote: ‘The majority emphasises that the majority decision of Innst. S. No 200 [[2002-2003]] Finally, I would like to address the Workers' Party's proposal on the Council's election and the amendment to Section 24 of the new seventh paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e273	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e278	First, let me make it clear that in terms of the firm training and use of school, the majority has not changed any opinion. I'll come back to this in my post. What I want to ask the Workers' Party is this point that goes on election every two years. The reason for this, as I think it is very good, is that one should improve the continuity so as to make it easier for more people to make elections to the council. It's a fact that it can be difficult to get enough willing people to make choices. There are many community councils in this country, many more than local authorities, and many people are needed to make choices. I see the clock doesn't go, so I have unlimited speaking time! What we're talking about here is trying. It has not been said that this will immediately lead to the desired result. It's about making attempts to get a broader commitment. I want to ask – although I still have one minute left of the line – if the Workers' Party does not think it makes sense to try in this area too in order to get a wider uproar on the church election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e289	The President is sorry – one is doing two things at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e292	Yes, now it's time! The Labour Party has said that we do not think the proposals are well-founded and that there is not a good enough overall assessment in the proposition of why this should be promoted now. We also say that at this stage we do not want to support the proposals. I don't think it's important to have trials for your own sake. If it is that it is difficult to get people to vote for the opinion board, I think that other active measures should be used to give the advice perhaps more decision making, make it more attractive to be there – simply put in other measures to get people to join in. My experience is that in a lot of churches, there are women who make up, there are a lot of young women who are involved in the councils of opinion – at least as I know it. So we don't think there'll be any greater continuity by having choices every two years. Then maybe a lot more samples should have had it – and maybe other assemblies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e301	I note that the Labour Party has previously voted in favour of proposals that are contrary to human rights, as the Labour Party not only voted in favour, but was the proposer when we discussed the matter a year and a half ago, to a proposal which reads as follows: ‘Tross training shall not take place during the school leisure system opening hours.’;» It was a proposal on which the Workers' Party and SV stood together. The progress party went even further in limiting this. So my question to the Workers' Party is, is that the proposal that one stood with the SV about the last time, in violation of human rights, as it was said now? Then I have another question, and it's going to try out different new choices, direct choices, etc. – elections in churches. We have built up a church democracy, and if it is allowed to establish a system of electoral powers, I have reason to believe that church democracy is being weakened. Is the Workers' Party concerned that when we get elections across the geographical boundaries, it could weaken church democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e313	I have to correct Mr Rikvam's representative here. A proposal from the SV and the Workers' Party was put forward together, which – correctly quoted – read: ‘Tross training shall not take place during the school leisure system opening hours.’;» But it is also stated in our joint note that the reasons for the proposal are: ‘Although SFO is a voluntary offer today, these members believe that belief training at this time will result in an unfortunate mix.’ That's our point of view -- we have that today, and so did we. The Labour Party has never intended that it should not be allowed to teach religion in the morning. It is amazing that SV has been able to perceive it this way. Then there had to be a ban between the clock. 8:00 a.m. and around 8:00 a.m. 17:00 in the afternoon against giving such instruction. The Workers' Party has never been in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e328	It is clear that SV reads the text from the treatment of the training reform as they themselves will, but I should also come back to that. I find that the two competing red parties are quite disagreeable in the view of the confirmation part of the religious training related to the school. One opens for mixing, and one is bastant and definitely repellent to such mixture. I also hear what the representative from the Workers' Party is justifying his view, and I have an understanding of practical matters, including: related to communication, etc. But anyway, and in fact despite that, I'm going to ask if the Workers' Party doesn't see it as important that you try to find other premises than the school, at least. When you have traveled to the place where the school is, when you have limited travel opportunities and long travel time, you could still move from the school area to another room, which clearly shows that the Church's religious training and confirmation training are actually separate from the school. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e337	First I have to say, yes, SV and the Workers' Party have different positions and different positions. The point is that the Workers' Party has considered the same both in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 7 for 2002–03 and in the case we are dealing with today — in the case of confirmation, and in the case of SFO. So for the firm instruction and why you can't put it out of school. From our point of view, you can use the school, but if it's more practical to use the community house, you'd like to use it. It's best if we can use the Church. But in the small places it's about here, they hardly have chapel or church, maybe a prayer house. We have nothing against using the school. We also have nothing against using other premises. Then it must not be so difficult to arrange for company education that it becomes like “old days”, when I was young, when one had to be interned for three weeks in a neighboring town in order to complete the teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e347	Through Ot.prp. No 30 The government proposes some changes to the church law, and Odelstinget will today mainly join the proposals. It is unanimous in extending the Oslo Council of Bishops to a representative of the deaf, and it is a varying majority of the various proposals for experimentation. Furthermore, there is a majority for a new wording of Section 36 on confirmation education in school time. In addition, the relationship between religious training and SFO is discussed, although the SFO is regulated by the Training Act and not by the Church Act. The confusion that has arisen over the interpretation of the majority position in this case following the Creeding Decision has made it necessary to obtain clarification. That's what we've got. The right considers it necessary to give the Norwegian Church the opportunity to carry out experimental activities in order to create a broad commitment and greater participation of the members of the Church in the business. We therefore support the proposals for trials on voting rights and lower voting age, second yearly elections and direct elections to the Council of Commons and the Council of Bishops. It must be stressed that the Church is given the opportunity to experiment with this. Experimental activities shall provide experience and, in the light of experience, it is necessary to evaluate whether these actions produce the desired effect. We do not draw any conclusions now, and I think it is surprising that some parties draw conclusions before the action is taken. The Workers’ Party ‘despites’ whether the second-year election scheme of half of the members of the Joint Council will give more continuity each year. SV “counts” that the termination of the selection of the Council of Bishops will be even lower than in the selection of the Council of Commons. I would like to admit that I am not convinced that all these measures will give the desired effect, but let's give the Church the opportunity to try. It must be possible to agree that there is a need for measures to increase the opening-up of church elections and to increase the involvement of the even churchgoers. Let's give these trials an opportunity, and then they need to be evaluated so that we can see the effect. A few comments to keep the council together with the decision making process: the experimentation that has been conducted with this has produced positive results, and there is nothing to prevent congregations that still want to do so from doing so. We note that this possibility exists to a great extent and sees no reason to vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal on this point. The big discussion has been about the confirmation training. The starting point is the decision to raise the issue of the training of faith, in which the majority asked the Ministry to come back with proposals to amend § 36. The majority, including the Right, wanted to take out of school the confirmation training on the grounds that the confirmation training is part of the religious training and therefore should not take place in the school. It's the primary view, and it has to come out in the legal text. The right therefore supports the amendment proposed by the majority of the Committee in Section 36. At the same time, it is clear that exemptions should be granted in specific cases. This was also highlighted in the faith training debate. Norway is a diverse country, and we must not take decisions that prevent a sensible organisation where it is natural and desirable to do so in cooperation with the school. I don't think that's going to be the case in many places, and the committee majority says in their remarks that practice has to be tightened up in several places. As I see it, it is the decision that is now being taken, in line with the intentions of the faith training reform. Primary vision is included in the legal text, practice is to be tightened up. At the same time, when «special reasons warrant it» and the municipality gives its consent, a derogation is granted. From the Right, we are clear that through this decision, we stand firm on the intentions of the religious training position. So some comments about the SFO. The right was not in the majority who would exclude the religious training from the SFO. SV's minority comment can be understood to have been fully agreed on this. No, of course not. The right, along with the other government parties and the Center Party, stood for a different vision. And we're still going to do that. We believe that an offer from various congregations on religious training in the SFO will be entirely in line with the idea and intention behind the school leisure scheme. Since the SFO is regulated by the Training Act and not by the Church Act, we are not going to deal with that debate right now. From the Right, we find that there is still a majority in favour of shutting down religious training from the SFO. We regret that, but we are pleased with the clarification we have now received in interpreting the majority view. I have felt this discussion as something unreal and have simply not had the imagination to see that this could be interpreted so that it could be banned from faith training almost everywhere and in any form during the opening hours of the SFO. I am pleased that the majority of the majority have not interpreted it this way either, and that we have now had a reasonable delimitation in this area. Finally, I have to say that I find SV's attempt to regulate the leisure activities of communities and organisations around the country very wonderful and quite meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e368	In the proposition, the Government proposes to change the age of voting in church elections to 15 years. I guess it will also apply where there will be attempts at direct elections to the Bishops' Council. But the government sets the age of choice to 18 years. I would like to ask the representative Olsen: is this not contrary to other principles of Norwegian electoral law? The usual thing is that persons can be elected if they have the right to vote. How will the representative Olsen justify the fact that a person aged 15 is mature enough to decide, but not mature enough to be elected?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e373	I think the reason for this is relatively simple, and it's quite detailed in the proposition. It's true that 15 years is the church age of authority, and so it's a strong desire to get more young people into active work in the Church, even when it comes to deciding who should sit in the council. But then 18 years is the actual age of authority, and a council has certain legal obligations — one may, among other things. raise loans through the Joint Council — and it is therefore important to have a distinction here. One can participate and vote since one has reached the ecclesiastical age of authority, but one should not sit in the council and make decisions that one must be authoritative, i.e. 18 years, to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e378	This concerns confirmation training in school time. It is possible that it is the recognition that one has been in a strong red company, which has caused the Right Government Party to change its position quite significantly. From being for change and against mixing, the Right is now towards change and for mixing. What was referred to as an unfortunate mix of roles can now be accepted, so you can have confirmation education in school. Why this reverse operation? Can we get a clarification and an explanation of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e385	Let me first say that when it came to the company we were in when we dealt with the reform of faith training, we felt very well about it. I'm a little disappointed that we can't still be in that company, to put it right, and I think we should have been. I have to say again that I do not accept the representative Blackevik's premise for what he asks. We perceive it, as I said in my post, not that we have changed our position. We stick to the principles and intentions, and we stand by everything we said. But it's like in this society we're also going to be able to use our heads. We believe that we have done that here. We have been strong in that this is true in exceptional cases; we have been strong in that the practices that are in many places should be tightened up – but this is a diverse country, where everything should not be drawn from what must be a map of Oslo or Bergen. We live in a diverse country, and there are places where we need to see that the best solutions may not be able to be caught in a square code without the possibility of granting a derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e397	I was a little surprised at Jan Olav Olsen's reason why they're now going in to give an opening, to have a little door on the slippery side of school and confirmation training. We cannot make a decision that prevents ‘a sensible organisation’, that was the concept he used. There is no one who opposes the Church’s organizing its religious training sensibly! It must be able to organize it exactly as it pleases, it has full freedom to organize its religious training – but that's not what we're talking about. What we're really going to talk about is whether belief training can still be added to the school, if you can use the school's time for belief training. That's where the principle is, that's where the difference goes. It's not about being for or against a reasonable training of faith and a sensible organization – it's what you need, dear friend, and we're going to do anything for it. But the point is that you shouldn't be allowed to use school time, that you shouldn't use school hours, because it's a mix of roles that the Church will primarily lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e402	I have to admit that I was a little afraid that the representative Requam would grasp that very wording and not hear what I said. I said it was about a sensible organization "where it's natural" to do it, in cooperation with the school. I want to make it clear once again that I think it will be the case extremely few places, it will be on a limited scale and it will be in special cases. I am absolutely sure that not least the Church itself will be interested in the least possible training at school, but in a few cases it may make sense for the Church to do so in cooperation with the school. We want it to be given an opportunity — in exceptional cases, with established practice, and when the municipality allows it. I feel that this is in line with what we said during the treatment of the reform of the faith, and that is in line with the intentions. I am very sorry that the SV cannot participate in the decision we are now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e412	In this respect, I would like to address both the proposal by the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Simonsen, and the proposal by the Progressive Party and the representative Simonsen, as set out in the vote. The case concerns several changes to the Church Act. The proposal to include a representative from the Dioceses of Oslo Bispedal Council is also supported by the Progress Party. The Progress Party is also positive for continued and expanded experimentation in the Norwegian Church. It is entirely in line with our main view that all churches should be independent and have their own way of working, organization and ministry. Our view is that attempts can contribute to increased involvement and participation in the Church's activities, including in the Church's own choices. At the same time, let me remind you that the Advance Party still wants a distinction between church and state. We want to move forward in this work, and we are pleased that the upsurge in the population to separate church and state seems to be in clear progress, so that the majority of those who now have an opinion actually want such a distinction. The propulsion party does not wish to test for a discrepancy of voting age, up to 15 years. The Progress Party wishes to adhere to the general principle that the age of voting rights is 18 years. We therefore promote an aberrant proposal in the case of § 24 – without this attempt at age of voting up to 15 years. Just like when the Storting treated Innst. S. No 200 for 2002-2003, on baptism training in the Norwegian Church, the Progress Party wishes to change the Church Act in relation to the confirmation training in school time. Together with SV, we propose to amend the current provision of the Church Act in Section 36, and the proposal is short and good: ‘Confirmation training may not be added to the school time.’; Confirmation training is now part of the Church's faith training. In the view of the Advance Party, it is important that the school's education and the Church's religious training are not mixed. It's important for students, both those who follow firm training, and those who don't. It is important for religious training to make it clear to those participating that the training of faith is different from the teaching of the school. I quote from the editorial in the newspaper Our Country February 18th this year: ‘We therefore believe it is best for the church too if it becomes clear that the teaching of the firm – as other training of faith – is something the church stands for in its own right, and that no one experiences the church sneaking into school unwarrantedly. For this reason, you should find other premises than the school’s to hold the teaching. Although there may be some practical problems, it must be possible to do so. And this also means that company education must be done outside normal schooling." This is also accepted by the Progress Party. The case also deals with belief training in the school leisure system. Here, too, the Progress Party, regardless of what SV thinks, has the same view that the Advance Party expressed then Innst. S. No 200 for 2002–03 on baptismal training. I quote from the comment of the Advance Party on that matter: ‘These members reject... the use of time in school leisure arrangements for such training. However, these members open up the possibility for school premises to be used for such training after the end of the school day/working day.» The progress party has pointed to time in the school leisure system, and we have pointed to the school’s premises. We have not said, nor did we intend, by political decisions or legislation, to impose a ban on religious training for those students who leave the school's premises and the school's territory when the school day is over. If we haven't made it clear, we'll make it clear now. If those who have challenged us on this, have not been able to make it clear that they are talking about business outside of the school fences so to speak, we hope that we now contribute to a common understanding and a common clarification. We remind ourselves that the school leisure system is a voluntary scheme, and the use of this leisure time is governed by parents and guardians. Students who do not use the SFO and therefore leave the school area must of course be able to spend their time on other things, including participation in religious training. The Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have, through a common note, a necessary clarification on this relationship, and we are pleased with that clarification, in line with the Advance Party's constant efforts to express it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e447	The representative of Sortevik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e453	Throughout the course of the proceedings and in the debate today, the party of progress has stood firm on the position that confirmation education cannot at all take place in school, that is, the opposite of what the Workers' Party has come up with. We respect that. My question to Sortevik is nevertheless: How does the Progress Party see that confirmation education is to be organised in those areas of the country where travel distances and school roads are long, and where students spend hours on boat and bus to get to school and other activities? What solutions does the Progress Party have for these young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e458	We have both understanding and respect for the fact that there may be problems associated with travel activities in our long-term country. But what we're concerned about is that even if you stay in the school area, i.e. in the school place, not within the fence – here we actually have to be quite physical descriptive – our recommendation is, in line with the recommendation that comes from the church team, that you actually find another place to be physically. We think that'll be completely possible. Also in places where you have to travel a long way to get to school, we think it's possible to find practical solutions to this. So we think it's important for religious training, for the confirmation training as an institution and as a system, that it's clearly shown that this is something other than the school's education, even by moving out of the school's area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e463	I actually intend to ask a little about confirmation training. We therefore believe it is important that there is a possibility of exemption, and that it is important to have opportunities to make exceptions to the few places where this may be necessary. Does not the Progress Party see that in some places it will not only be desirable, but actually necessary to find practical solutions in cooperation with the school? And isn't it that this possibility should come out in the legal text? If this is not stated in the legal text, how does the Progress Party see that a person could get sensible solutions with the school where it is desirable? Then I have another question. It is possible that I did not fully follow along, but is it so that the Progress Party now opens up the possibility that confirmation training can take place within the school's time, if it is only outside the school's area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e470	To the end, I would like to say that it is little practical, little smooth and little wise to go on a long journey home, then to return. As for the second part of the question, whether there should be an absolute ban, or whether you should have a smooth opening in the church law to mix confirmation training and school, our view is that it is not a good idea to have that opening and that access in the church law. I repeat that we believe that it is wise to have a clear separation. I also repeat that we are not alone in believing that. We actually feel that there is our faith on quite a solid and good reason, when we get clear indications and clear appeals also from a newspaper that stands close to one of the ruling parties in this way, and which recommends that the Church does not ‘snicker’ unwarrantedly into school. It's not my expression, but it's the expression used in a leadership article in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e477	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e480	I just read Edvard Hoem's book about Olav Engelbrektsson. He was the last Archbishop of Nidaros before he was chased out of the country in 1537. The book draws a picture of a visionary nation-builder with great care for the church he was the chief leader of in Norway. He was, of course, as we all are, a product of his time. Against Olav Engelbrektsson stood the Danish king, who in the struggle for the Norwegian throne used the church split, starting from Martin Luther, in his political struggle against rivals in Denmark. By distributing church goods to central supporters and by securing income from church goods, he laid the foundation for his political power. By exercising political power and by granting privileges to representatives of the new faith, he ties closely between the new church and the political power. This strong mix of politics and religion has shaped later on. So you could say that Olav Engelbrektsson represented a vision where religion was a piece of his great nation-building project. The obvious difference, however, is that the political power, represented by the king, deliberately used religion in its struggle for the throne in Norway. That the Church, after the Reformation, has made a theoretical superstructure by operating with a two-regiment doctrine, is the Church's own defense for the privileges it acquired by becoming a piece in changing political directions of abuse of religion. It is the aftermath of this mixture of religion and politics that we are still engaged in here in the country: Christian purpose paragraphs and the struggle of politicians to maintain the Church's special rights are extensions of the political grip on religion after the king's introduction of the Reformation. What's creepy is that the losers are religion and the Norwegian Church. The Church has never deserved the embrace of politics in terms of purpose paragraphs and privileges. With the reform of faith training, we thought – at least some of us – that we should now come a big step towards breaking some of the last ties between church and politics – this mix of roles. That is why we agreed to join a faith training course. We also agreed that we would be involved in financing it, but we made some unconditional and clear demands. We agreed that we should have a state church, and the state should of course be involved in supporting the training of faith, so that the Church can do this. Other religious communities and humanetics will also have this opportunity. Now we see that the parts we were dealing with don't follow up. They continue to push in front of weak groups, or whatever it may be, in the fight for the Church to continue to have a special right, and that one should continue to be able to mix school and religious education. But then we have to ask back to those who argue with the deaf and the weak or what it may be, in order to maintain this privilege: the Church has always managed to keep its services, it has always managed to gather the congregation, why wouldn't it be able to gather young people for religious training outside the school's premises, when it's done the other thing? Why should the majority still push these groups in front of them, when we know that this doesn't need the Church? And I'm sure the Church inside doesn't want it. Therefore, I very much regret that it has not been possible to make it clear and unambiguous that this mix of roles should be lifted, these privileges should be removed, mainly because it is part of weakening and making it more difficult for the Church itself. I wish the Church were now able to take these challenges and say, this is not relevant for us in the future. No congregation shall make contact with the aim of using the school’s time and the school’s lessons for religious training. It would have been a good signal and an important signal to give in to our time. So in the final case of the SFO period, we are clear that we are at the position we had when we dealt with the Storing Message. But we give a small opening – for those who have seen it – so that this will not create conflict, not create problems, not create cross-breeds for young people, and therefore we end up with: ‘Therefore, the authorities do not need to add the training to the SFO premises or to the SFO time, when this means that children must choose between SFO or religious training.’ That would be a reasonable answer, and that would be the correct answer. And I'm sure the Church would think that this is the best it could get, and the most sensible it could get. I'm taking up our suggestions. And then I ask that voting be put up so that we also have the opportunity to vote in favour of the proposals we have in relation to elections in churches, and in relation to direct elections to the Council of Bishops.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e504	The representative Reikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e511	I believe the representative of Rikvam must live with the fact that church and politics are going to go hand in hand for another hundred years in this country. I would also like to distance myself from the allegations of the majority pushing weak groups in front of them. Such a monstrous claim seems to me to fall on its own unreasonableness. I have a question for Reikvam: When we dealt with the training of faith in connection with Innst. S. No 200 for 2002-2003, SV participated in a comment stating that ‘local adaptations are important in the design and organisation of religious training’. So that comment was SV, and then it is quite natural for me to ask: Can the representative explain what he meant by ‘local adjustments’ when we discussed the Innst? S. No 200 for 2002-2003?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e520	The Church and politics should go hand in hand – I don't know what's in that term, but at least I sincerely hope that the clumsy embrace of certain political environments of the Church will end. It would be a strength for the Norwegian Church. SV has written a note on SFO. It is obvious that the representative has not read it. I should maybe read it, because it's really very good: ‘It is important that the religious training of the church does not appear divisive and creates a cross-press for parents and children. Faith training shall be an offer to the members of the church. Training shall be, as far as possible, inclusive and in good dialogue with those parts of the community who opt out of religious training or stand outside the church. Therefore, the authorities do not need to add the training to the SFO premises or to the SFO time, when this means that children have to choose between SFO or religious training.’ Within the framework that we are sketching here, there are many possibilities and exciting alternatives. We already know that the Norwegian Church has many good projects, and they are doing an exciting job in the field of faith training.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e532	The President reminds us that the insertions in the lines last only 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e535	It was a strong and emotional contribution from the representative of Rikvam. I would like to be allowed to complain, namely that SV is not included in the wording of Section 36, for which there is now a majority, and which I believe is fully in line with the intention of reforming the faith. I see here no indication of danger – if this paragraph of the law is used as intended – so that there may be a mix of school and religious education. And I'm sorry that the representative Rikvam, who is normally so concerned about and so good at finding the practical solutions, here has completely locked himself in a code. But my question really applies to SFO. ‘That is why the communities do not need to add training to SFO’s premises or in the SFO’s time,’ says the comment – I have actually read it. Does the representative of Reikvam really believe that it is possible to prevent belief training from a congregation in the opening hours of the SFO, even outside the premises of the SFO? And on what basis does he believe that this should be regulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e545	Jan Olav Olsen quoted correctly from our remark, but he stopped when he came to the decimal point. He should still have after the decimal point to get the whole thing, i.e. – now I have to read it again: ‘Therefore, the municipalities do not need to add the training to the SFO premises or to the SFO time,’ — comma — ‘when this means that children must choose between SFO or religious training’. That's an important clarification, when we see it in the context of what's before us, that's what's going on in the cross-press, to create division, and that belief training must be in dialogue with the local environment, with those who don't opt out of faith training, and with those who choose it away. It's very important. In addition, we know – the Church has started pilot projects – that this has so far not created any problems, rather on the contrary, it has worked very well. Therefore, it is very important that the Church remains in this good dialogue, and does not challenge either school or SFO. That would be devastating for the training of faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e557	Two things: one is that once again it is interesting to show how fundamental is the disagreement between the merging red parties, SV and the Workers' Party, is – also in a matter within the Church's territory. The second is the comment from SV – in concrete terms – and the text that has just been mentioned. The representative Rolf Reikvam from SV has been very concerned about bringing charges against other parties for changing their position. But is it not the case that SV turns in the end of their own comment in relation to what they stood for in the setting of the faith training? Here it opens for a possibility. In fact, the representative Reikvam himself mentioned that one has opened a door. You've de facto changed your position, but you're hiding it with a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e564	In order for there to be no doubt about the disagreement between the Workers' Party and SV: we also disagree on other matters. For example, we disagree with the Church of State. SV goes in to dissolve the state church, find other relations between state and church, while the Workers' Party does not. So here's a lot of good explosives for the Progress Party – if that's what they're concerned about. As far as the Church of State is concerned, I guess it's a much bigger case than exactly what goes to school and religious education, because, after all, it's not a very big case. But it's a principle matter, which it's important to hold on to, and not least it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth, which the other parties obviously can't do in a good enough way. So to the statement if we've changed our position: we haven't changed our position. We argue strongly and clearly why one should not add belief training to the SFO period, and that is precisely because some children who attend the SFO also want to be part of faith training. In this way, conflict in the community is avoided; dialogue is involved. But then you have to say, where this conflict is not, we give a little opening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e576	Experimental activities can provide experiences and impulses in the development of Church and Church democracy. This was stated by the Church meeting in 2003. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Church itself is active in trying out new arrangements to evolve as a people's church. With today's amendment of the law, we are making provision for more good trial schemes. The Church has made successful attempts to merge elections into councils and big shots. Should the Church at some later stage wish to legislate for such a merger on the basis of the trials, the Christian People's Party is positive in assessing it. The Christian People's Party is also positive that the deaf now have a representative in the Oslo Council of Bishops. It means an important strengthening of the influence of deafness in the Church's Council structure. What has aroused the most debate in the committee has been confirmation training and faith training in the school's SFO time. The Christian People's Party agrees that confirmation education will not normally take place at school. At the same time, we recognise that when specific reasons speak for this, it should be possible to grant a derogation from the provision. In some cases, a rigid ban on compulsory schooling could create unnecessary local problems. There are long traditions of cooperation between the school and the church from the beginning of school in the 1700s. The Christian People's Party wants to emphasise the local assessment in the design of cooperation. Thus, we need to provide practical solutions based on local needs. It makes the majority's proposal for a new section 36. Confusion outside the community has been high in relation to the rules on when one can arrange religious training. The project manager for the training reform has stated that a good number of congregations have ceased their SFO assignments. He has also received many enquiries from principals and principals who have reacted negatively to the fact that it has become more difficult to cooperate with the Church. The Christian People's Party believes that with today's attitude we deal with confusion in a way that allows us to maintain local cooperation between the Church and the SFO. The Committee's attitude implies that we recognise that the strict distinction between SFO and the Church's religious training has been difficult. The Christian People's Party agrees that the religious training will be carried out by the Church in a way that makes it clear that the Norwegian Church is responsible for the training and is responsible for the content. For the Christian People's Party, it is a right for the baptized children to receive religious training. The task of the state is to help the Church make such an offer. I am pleased that the majority is now cleaning up the understanding of religious training in the opening hours of the SFO. Once again, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party shall be praised for providing the absolutely necessary clarifications. The reform of religious education was in its time adopted in Stortinget with the support of the Socialist Left Party. I thought at the time that SV had a fundamental reason for its support. I thought SV saw the value of creating a systematic training offer for all baptized children from 0 to 18 years of age – an offer of self-reliance training that provides a basis for expanding and being safe on their own identity. However, after working on this amendment, I am in doubt. The main issue of SV during treatment has been to distinguish religious activity as a purely evening activity. SV’s proposal for a nationwide ban on faith training between 1 p.m. 7 and 17, or between 7 and 17 o'clock. 8 and 17 are alarming. The consequence would be that, for example: would be prohibited with corset before 1 p.m. 17 if the songs had a Christian content. Speed clubs could have collections before noon. 17 if they did not have a Christian content, while collections with a Christian content had to be added after 7 p.m. 17. So this is so important for SV that they are willing to scrape their support for the whole reform of faith training. My wish is that the reasons provided by SV in the debate in 2003 for its support for the reform should remain the party's policy. Then the lot put the emphasis on that 80 pst. by the children are baptized, and that there is a desire to belong to a religious and cultural community. Then SV's representative Rolf Reikvam continued with the following: ‘If this is a correct interpretation of why people choose to baptize their children, the Church has an important task in helping people into this community. One must give them the opportunity to share in what binds the community together, and give them the security of what the Church stands for in the face of other views of faith and life." It was wise words, words that bear witness to a religious-supporting policy, but I am now uncertain whether SV is still standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e606	I'm glad of what the representative Lyngstad said. He said that the Christian People's Party opens up that at a later date, if the Church so desires, you can be positive to a change in law so that the council elections and the decisions of the magnificence can fall on the same day. At least that is how I perceive what the representative Lyngstad said. I'm very happy about that. But until further notice: how does the representative Lyngstad think that there can be an increase in the involvement of the assembly council and that more people will participate in church democracy, that more people will go to the polls in the council elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e611	To the representative Nielsen, I would like to say that it is clear that it is important for the Church to increase participation in the elections to the council. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Church itself is working actively to increase the upsurge, both by informing and by facilitating the elections, so that it becomes easier to participate. However, I think the main challenge is to create an engagement that makes people feel essential that they participate in the election, that it has something to say. It is about clarifying the importance of opinion polls, for example: for the design of the religious training offer, for how we care for church buildings, for how the interaction between the community and members of the congregation is. Here I feel that the Church is running, and there are attempts being made. But I do believe that the Church itself must be allowed to decide and make some recommendations on how this can best be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e618	Let me stress that belief training is a major matter, it is an important matter, and it is a principle matter. It is also clear that the government parties may now take inwards that it is so to say the red, political wolf SV they have had with them in the government parties' agreement on faith training, and that you are now a little concerned about the company you have agreed to. Also for the government party Christian People's Party, it is such that you have changed your mind. What you thought was an unfortunate mix of roles, you're no longer so concerned about showing up as such a mix of roles. My question to the representative Lyngstad is whether he does not see that it can actually be the way our country states – it is a newspaper I suppose the representative Lyngstad is close to – that it may be wise to make a very clear distinction between the training of confirmation and the teaching of the school, and that one does not think as the newspaper describes it, that the Church is sneaking into the school's time and the school's business, and that it is actually in favour of the training of faith itself to keep a perfectly clear distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e627	I am pleased that the representative Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, says that faith training is a matter of fundamental importance. I wish that the Progress Party, too, had thus shown greater political commitment to the reform of faith training than they have done, where the Progress Party – if I do not remember completely wrong – had clear premises and was uncertain as to whether they would support the launch of the reform of faith training, they would have a need study, etc. The Progress Party will have good opportunities in the future to follow up on this with economics as well. The Christian People's Party does not want a mix of roles, but we want to see that in terms of what they have come up with locally, that it is the basis for practical cooperation, we must not create so strict fundamental boundaries that it prevents good local solutions. It's a centralization, a central government, which, in my opinion, will destroy the people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e634	I think it was a good quote Arne Lyngstad concluded with, and I can say that we are still at the point of view on which that quote was based. I can guarantee that. We are the party that has also shown that we have been loyal to what we were on when we made the compromise on the training of faith, because we are the ones who have followed up what we said in our budgets for both 2004 and 2005. You can't say that about everyone in this room. But when one breaks some of the assumptions that lay there on our side -- that was perfectly clear assumptions -- this could mean that we also have to reconsider our position in relation to what has to do with the economy and the follow-up. But my question to Arne Lyngstad goes on something else, it goes on what has to do with the democratic structures that are established in the Norwegian Church. Does Arne Lyngstad fear that the establishment of churches across old church boundaries can help undermine the democratic structures that we have now built, thereby weakening the Church's democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e642	The representative, Rikvam, said that he was pleased with the quote I had from the previous debate, and that he stood by it. I'll get the representative to believe that. But after hearing the representative's posts in the Chamber today, where he has argued very strongly for a fundamental distinction, the unanswered question again stood: What role should the government have in relation to religions? I believe that the principle position should be that the state should have a religious-supporting policy, but that perspective was far removed from the intervention of the representative Rikham earlier in the debate. In terms of voting rights, I see it as an opportunity for the Church to renew its congregational work. I'm just referring to today's lookup around Oslo diocese, where the largest congregation in this city is actually an electoral council. I think that allowing it will help to secure the upsurge of the Church and prevent membership dehulling.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e649	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e652	As the debate has shown, there is a great deal of agreement on most of the proposals in the proposal. It's right and reasonable, it's high time that the deaf church sounds get a representative in the Oslo Council of Bishops. It is Oslo's Council of Bishops who take decisions concerning the deaf church sounds throughout the country, it is Oslo's bishop who supervises them. Giving the deaf church sounds representation in the Church's council believes the Center Party will contribute to a greater inclusion of these categories of church sounds in the Norwegian Church. The center party is for trials that we believe will stimulate to increase interest and unlock about the ecclesiastical choices. It's important in our view, given that we have a people's church. This means that the Central Party supports the proposal for attempts to lower church voting age to 15 years, which is identical to the religious imagery. We also support the proposal on attempts to elect half the Soknee Council every two weeks. If this can lead to greater continuity in the work of the Soknee Council, it is worth trying. We also support direct elections to the Council of Commons and Bishops' Councils. In the case of attempts at election church sounds, the Central Party will vote against the sixth paragraph of Section 24, which states that the Church meeting can approve attempts at election church sounds. Let me stress that it is very important that the rental of local church sounds has contact with these kinds of church sounds. But we also read the department's assessment. The ministry is skeptical of such an attempt and states that it does not have a proper position on the question of how likely a system of electoral sounds, or an attempt to do so, will be. In our view, such an attempt broke with the basic principle on which the Norwegian Church’s system is based – geographically limited soknock. A development in which church sounds are created for theological or church-political reasons may weaken the local variety that characterizes church sounds today and may lose church sounds for valuable resources. Attempts to make such gatherings electoral sounds will, in the view of the Centre Party, help to reinforce such developments. But let me underline: the commitment that is in these assemblies is of course very valuable in the overall context, and it's important to have good contact locally. As part of its plurality, when it comes to the training of trusts and the relation to the school leisure arrangements, as also mentioned in the proposal, the Centre Party makes an important clarification: Threat training shall not be carried out in its local SFO opening hours. The Church has the freedom, of course, to conduct threat training in other localities, even if there is SFO provision at the same time. Finally, brief confirmation training in the classroom. The Committee identifies derogations which are of major importance. At the same time, there is a narrowing of current practices, many of which have only been kept by layers without good foundation. But I find it necessary to remind you that there is something called organized education for the disabled, something called special education, something called geography in this country as well. We put ourselves somewhat incomprehensible to SV's closest anguish-bitter attitude to exactly this. We actually think it's enough to bring down the Norwegian map, maybe magnified some states, and we see that there is a need to have exceptions for the confirmation education in the school age, for the best for the communities that owe this, not least for the benefit of the individual who wants confirmation education. We think it's very good to find local solutions to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e667	New church law was adopted in 1996. She's seemed to be working well. I am impressed by the work that Churcha has done to build the new structures that were promised. In less than 10 years, the Church has developed its organs locally, regionally and centrally, saying that it understands itself and enhances its competence at all levels. This has led to a broader interest in the further development of church arrangements. The church meeting handled in 2002 its own settings on church-state relations. The government was then asked to appoint a public selection to sort this out further, and of course we have. But the Church meeting said that regardless of this fundamental issue, Churcha needs trials that can provide insights and impulses in the development of both church and church democracy. There is therefore a working group working on trials in the Church. This is the background to the fact that, regardless of the future relationship between the state and the church, it is now appropriate to test electoral sounds that fund the enterprise itself, attempts to lower the age limit for voting rights in church elections, attempts to hold elections for another year, and direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops. The church meeting also asked for the Bishops ’ Council to be expanded with a representative from the deaf church sounds. Oslo bishop is the deaf church sounds of his bishop, and Oslo the bishop's council added priests to serve in the deaf districts. On this basis, the deaf church should be represented in the Oslo Council of Bishops. I am therefore pleased that, in its position, the Committee is in agreement with this proposal and will give the Church meeting the form of defining the rules on options, voting rights and who can be chosen. When it comes to the legislative proposals that allow the Church meeting to approve attempts to lower the age limit on voting rights in church elections and attempts to hold elections to church bodies for another year and direct elections to the Council of Commons and Bishops, I have noticed that the Committee sees the importance of strengthening democracy in the Church. With the new church law, the church meeting would establish more detailed rules for the church choices. This is set out in the first paragraph of Section 6 of the Church Law. In church law itself, there is nothing to prevent depositing options and parish council elections from occurring at the same time. In my opinion, it should still be up to the Church meeting to decide. But I think it might be wise to proceed with attempts to close down the deposit options and options to the Sokneading Board at the same time. The Committee's recommendation suggests that a variety of pluralities will ensure that the Church meeting is brought to trial both with the second year option and with the lower age limit for the right of voice. I understand the minority that thinks one should have common voting age in all public elections. But I think it might be useful for the Church to try out a voting age that is compatible with the right to register and leave the Church. I think, therefore, that the Church should have the opportunity to try this out. I am also pleased that the Church will be able to hold elections for another year, so as to ensure continuity in the council. A lot of advice has to do with the replacement of as close as all elected members at the same time. I have also noticed that when the Socialist Left Party opposes direct elections to the Council of Bishops and Councils, it is because one is afraid that such a system will weaken the Church's legitimacy as a broad church. Here too, the foundation is that one will strengthen democracy. The purpose of the tests is, inter alia: to find a way to do just that. I therefore believe that it is good that the Church meeting should try out which tool is appropriate. The purpose of giving this image is not to introduce new schemes, but to find out what is likely – and what is not – for the development of the Church. When it comes to the proposal on images to try out electoral sounds, I have noticed that the majority who are in favour join the terms that the department sees, that the election church sounds finance the enterprise itself. The tests shall not entail any new financial requirements for the municipalities or joint councils. In the case of the proposal to amend Church Law § 36, there is a full agreement on the principle underlying the relationship between the school's training on faith and the Church's training on faith. Threat training is Church's case and should therefore find a place outside the school's time and in the Church's room. The proposal from the majority lines below this. However, the fact that there are circumstances that require exemptions is nevertheless addressed in the proposal. Municipalities may grant derogations only when specific reasons justify it, such as the need for organised training or special geographical conditions. The same contradiction between the principle and the need for practical solutions is apparent in relation to the relationship between threat training and the school leisure system. The majority now come with a clarification of the decision taken by Stortinget on the relationship between truss training and the school leisure arrangements at the time of the adoption of the reform. I'm glad of this clarification. She will be of good help both to parents in time and to the Church itself. Given the SV's comment on the violation of the conditions underlying the party's support for trust training in the Innst. S. No 200 for 2002–03, I remind you that this is also about finding practical solutions, not changing the guidelines and principles that we are a few of them about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e696	As everyone in the room today has been involved, elections to the council were a success at the same time as big elections. The use of the electoral card in the selection of the council led to an extra large turnout. The feedback we have received from several shows that the electoral card system has been crucial to raising the turnout. Now it is the case that the councils have to finance printing and sending election cards. We all know the economy of the councils. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of Churches consider funding the electoral card scheme for all council elections? And in case the answer is no, the follow-up question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e708	I agree that we have had some trials that have been positive. So, if the Council of Churches decides to do that, I want us to try out the future, too, where we can gain experience when it comes to having parallel choices. When it comes to funding cards, it comes down to what is now the highest priority of the various challenges facing the Church. I must admit that there are other challenges in the Church that I would prioritise financially before giving priority to such election cards. I can refer to both the prost reform, I can of course refer to the truss training, and I can also mention other things that are probably more important. And then we'll see when we have some more experience, including in relation to the economy, where we're going to put funds. But for the first time I think it is more important area within the Church than at least I want to give priority over funds for election cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e715	I would like to ask the Council of State a question relating to confirmation education. Let me first look at the principles. It's true, of course, that a lot is very similar, if you combine the confirmation instruction and the training of faith in the SFO. But there's one crucial difference, and that's the age of the confirmations. Those who participate in confirmation education have a completely different age, a completely different life situation and an entirely different active participation itself. Then my question is: doesn't the Council of State feel that it is important to stress, precisely for the sake of the age of the participants, that belief training is something other than the education of the school, and that the Church is actually the best served to be – we can call it – overly clear that this is something that has nothing to do with school and education; this is something quite different, something important, and that it is therefore going to be done outside of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e724	This is a theme that has been raised by a few before today. It's a pretty interesting discussion. We are all a few people about the principle: the school is supposed to provide training on trust, the church is supposed to give training to trust. So threat training is such a training, and the confirmation training is part of it. When I promised to come back to Stortinget with a case about changing the law, I have done so. I have tightened up the possibilities to take confirmation training in the school yard or in the school building. But at the same time, we must not throw out the baby with the bath water, simply. We see it in the geography of Norway. Perhaps I have offered too many places in the country that I can accept the simple explanation that this must find practical solutions. If the school pillow leaves at 0 p.m. 2:30 p.m. for all students, what about the two who are confirmations? How are they supposed to get home that day? It can actually be that simple. That's why we keep it open, because we have to be practical, because we want everyone who wants to get offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e731	First, a comment on something that has been said earlier about religious-supporting politics. There is doubt as to whether SV has a religious-sponsoring policy. It was violent! That's not what we're discussing right now. We're going to discuss state religion policy when we get the setting from the Greens' Committee. Then we're going to discuss what kind of religious policy the state should have toward the different religions. It's an important and exciting debate. But now we're discussing the relations between the Norwegian Church and the school and the SFO, so here we have to be careful not to mix the cards, but to keep the tongue straight in the mouth. There's a lot of people who are obviously struggling with this. I want to challenge the Council of State in one area. The majority have opened the door to continuing belief training at school and to use school hours as well. Does this mean that even others who are going to be engaged in religious training — with Koran training or whatever it may be — will have the same opportunity to use the time of the school if they so wish, or is this explicitly added to the Norwegian Church? Shouldn't everyone have the same right? [[President clubs]] There is nothing in the Training Act that opens up to it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e741	The President is going to be very strict over time. It's Friday – I won't say more!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e744	When it comes to the two firms that I used as an example instead, which are left on the dock when the boat goes, perhaps one of them would like to have a civil confirmation, while the other would like a church confirmation. Obviously, the same rights apply to both of them. I think the training law says that they should have them, if I am not completely wrong. It might be in church law, but at least it says in one law or another that that court is there. What amazes me in this matter is that the representative Reikvam is talking about trust in the Church in his post, they are not asking for it, and why are they put on such a thing in the world? No, it's actually nonsense what's being said here. We say if one needs it, one can accept it. There is no requirement for the school to be used, there is no requirement for schooling to be used, nor is there any requirement for the Church to put trust training there or there, but it is therefore to solve marginal challenges. If one had mentioned how many this debt, I think one would have seen that the force one has applied to this discussion today is over-use of energy. Here you can only make things more flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e751	The President recalls a paragraph of the Rules of Procedure on the use of words. This also applies to state councils. Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e758	I'm going to try to be quick, and I'm in no way going to reopen the discussion and the debate we had about faith training. But I got a pretty strong rinse from the representative Lyngstad from the Christian People's Party on the relationship of the Progress Party to the faith training reform. I'll just refer briefly from Innst. S. No 200 for 2002–2003, where, inter alia: is on page 3: ‘The members of the Committee from the Progress Party... have noted that the Government commits to a high degree to follow the timing of the Baptism Training Committee when implementing this reform. These members fully share the view that baptism training is a central task for the Christian Church, and find it positive that the reform should be locally anchored and embrace widely.» And on page 4, it says: ‘In the view of those members, enhanced baptismal training in the State Church System should therefore be financed by the State.’ And that's how I could keep going. So we had a different view of funding. In fact, we had a common view of the great uncertainty about the budgetary implications of the reform, and we chose a different path from that. But I would like to stress here and now again that the view that representatives of the Christian People's Party often try to convey about the views of the Advance Party on faith training is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e773	I note that the Council of State believes that the fundamental arguments that some of us are leading in the field are customs. That this is being said from this pulpit is provoking me very much. The fact that a party manages to hold a principal line, manages to approach these difficult questions in a principle way and is clear that there should be a distinction between what is Church religious training, what is school training and its responsibility for subjects, and all of this, being characterised as customs, I think it is completely wrong. It should have been really stated, because that's not the way we're going to discuss such serious issues as what we're dealing with here. Governments draw up a number of single examples. If there are two students standing on the edge of the bridge and one of them is going to have faith training and the other is not, the Church must be able to add the faith training to the school. Refuge training and confirmation training are not conducted in the same way today as when we were young. In general, belief training and confirmation training are currently being conducted in different ways, with large collections, sacred gatherings, etc. It is not the usual schooling practice in the Norwegian Church. Fortunately, the Norwegian Church has come further than that. Then we're not going to use these single examples – the example of a student standing on a pier. That's not the case. Today the Church organizes this in a completely different way. Fortunately, the Church has imagination to organize it in another way, but the question is of a principle nature. Are we going to have this mix of roles? I had hoped that the Council of State could also deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e784	A short note at the end. The representative Reikvam says that SV approaches this issue in a principle way and is a little tired because he meets criticism that he has done so. I think to the extent that it is very good that he tries to approach this in a principle way, but then he has to be able to tell what the role of the state should be in relation to religions. Therefore, it is wrong to say that this debate is not about whether or not to have a religious-supporting policy. Because then he doesn't take inward that even a state has to deal with religious communities and different religions. The State must recognise that there is freedom of belief and that there are some fundamental rights to be met. Then it's also about the state having to facilitate conditions so that religious communities can work in line with their mission. In fact, something else is to say that the state should not have a religious-supporting policy. I think that the principal idea behind Mr. Requam's speech today was deficient. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Blackevik quoted the strong comments of the Advancement Party on the training of faith, and I am pleased that there is now also a stronger commitment to it. I will insist that in budgetary terms, the Progress Party has been restrained in facilitating the reform of the faith. But I like new signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e795	I need to be able to clarify what I thought was nonsense – it is an expression that should not be used, I understand. I am asking for a reason for calling something of what the representative, Mr Rikvam, said, a customs duty. The point for me was to stress that the fundamental debate is important and serious. I'm kind of admiring how a mind can hold on to the principle here, while I'm a little concerned about reality, whether one should be able to cope with the principle. What I meant was not fully expressed right in the representative's posts, was that we pushed something at the Church. We have tightened up the Church's possibility, and that's what I thought it was not quite right to express that way. We have streamlined the Church's ability to use the school and the school. We don't push anything, but we say that in those cases that are absolutely necessary, a few laws should still be given. That's what's important for me to emphasize here. The fundamental debate is quite interesting, and I am very much in agreement with the principle that the representative has, but at the same time we must live in the real world. In fact, in the example of the two that stand on the pier, if we're going to break the principle, they won't be offered confirmation training. That's the offer I don't want to take from them. I know that Church is good at creating all sorts of arrangements, both in relation to trust training and in relation to confirmation training in particular, and they are not in school as before – all of this I am very well informed about. It must also be possible to do this without having to hold the elephants back perhaps until the day after, or having to move on to the furniture to receive confirmation training, or such things. That's what makes us some people in principle. We see, however, that here we must have a practical approach to the principles that I believe most people here agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e802	I am sorry that it is actually necessary to have some three-minute posts on a Friday afternoon. It was a formulation that the representative Rikvam used in one of his lines, which I would like to comment on. He says that the majority say that belief training is still going on in school. That's actually not what we're doing. We say in our legal text that faith training should not take place in the school's time, but that in exceptional cases it can do so, and then in agreement with the municipality. So, as the Council of State says, this is a strong tightening. The principles are there. I don't just agree to some extent with the principles that the representative Rekovam so strongly advocates, I fully agree with him, but it is such that principles without any practical thinking in addition are almost worthless. There must be opportunities to have practical approaches that can make this an offer to all. I think the example of the Council of State of these who are on the pier is very good, because that is what is real in many places. Then I find out that I have not received an answer to my question about how SV will really prevent the communities from adding faith training to the SFO, even outside the SFO premises. There is no such legislation, nor should it exist, which allows the State and Stortinget to regulate the provision of leisure time in our 432 municipalities, as SV clearly wishes. I'm glad that this code does not exist, I'm glad that the majority does not want it to exist, and I'm glad that there should still be a freedom to provide the good leisure opportunities in the many municipalities, even if there is an SFO activity. So I'd like to say in the end that I hope that the great consensus we've had in these years about the principles behind the training of faith, regardless of how a person wants to finance it, still has to be there. So this is a reform that is too important for it to be squandered in disunity about individual questions and individual details, which, after all, is. We must not forget what is the great perspective and the great visions of the training of faith, and there we must really stick to the great consensus we have had in raising it further. The broad majority I hope is still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e818	The President fully understands that a person is clarifying the content of the legal text. I have previously practiced vague laws in this area in my life. Otherwise, one might refrain from rhetorical things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e821	Some of us don't speak in the sequences. Now that I am the case rapporteur, I would like to make some comments. For the left, we are very clear against the state church system of today. We believe that there is a need for a clear distinction between the community institutions we have, both in terms of life's views and religious background, and their role in our society in relation to the different religious communities. We want a review that clearly separates this. I believe we have now joined in. Fanatism is something that is not only reserved for different religious outcomes or sects, fanaticism can be found in many areas. I believe that what is in the SV's comment on the SFO is having very many strange effects in reality, because that means that one says that there are a number of activities that one is not allowed to do because the municipality operates with a voluntary offer. It is a rather unique wording we have here today, because that means that a party in our Parliament believes that as long as a voluntary offer is made by the public, some others should be disqualified from engaging in other voluntary offers at the same time – at the same time! It is a unique and quite fundamentalist position. It is quite amazing that we really have it today. It's special, what we're doing today, and I think it might have come out of focus with the other discussions. This is about the freedom to choose, and here you want to take away a freedom. It's all right in itself, but now you want to dissuade some right to have another type of voluntary activity. Seen in historical relation to the origin of the SFO, and seen in historical relation to what it was the parties that wanted to introduce this scheme, thought it would be, it is also quite unique. I don't think SV would have dared to stand on that position if they had thought they would have a majority for this today, because it could have opened up interesting discussions relating both to human rights and to the right to engage in voluntary activity in other areas – yes, indeed the right to freedom of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e832	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e836	I don't know if there's any sense in trying to repeat what I've said before about our remarks. It's obvious that Trine Skei Grande has not read our comments. We have written clearly what is the purpose and what is the reason for these comments, while also saying ‘when this means that children have to choose between SFO or faith training’. So her claim falls on her own unfairness, because that's not what we write, that's not what we mean, just that it's clarified. Then I want to say one more little thing, and it's about religious-supporting politics. When we dealt with the paper on faith training, we discussed religious policy by saying that all religious communities, all life-vision societies, should receive support. It wasn't just the Norwegian Church, it was everyone. This was a way to secure everyone by providing public funds, so that all religious and life-viewing societies could similarly carry out their training of faith, that is, to facilitate everyone. That's what religion policy is. What we are discussing today is not religious policy. We are discussing the relationship of the Norwegian Church with a few areas, and then there is no religious policy. We must not in any way interfere with religious politics in this. The debate on religious policy must be taken into account. We get a lot of chances in the next period. In the end, I'm sorry about what I said to Jan Olav Olsen, this with the majority saying that one should add it to school time. The right thing is, of course, that you can make an opening for it to be done, just to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e848	OK, we accept the clarification. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e866	When I take the floor in this case, it is to express pleasure to the Council of State that she promoted a proposition on this matter, and glad that it is a unanimous vote by the Committee. It is stated in the Committee's proposal for Decision II: «Liabilities from the time the King has been established». At the same time, the statement under Summary begins, that «the council may derogate from the rule on age limits for proponents». It is clear that this is now being met with great expectation by some leaders of freedom, as we call them. Their problem, as it has been presented to me, is tied up with the fact that we are now going into a season where, among other things. Weddings get a greater extent. It is therefore desirable that this law be implemented relatively quickly. The reason why I take the floor here is to recommend – and request – the Council of State that the implementation of this law can take place quickly, so that the county can apply for a derogation, which this allows. As it is now, the statesmen say consistently no. There are some leaders who want to be able to make weddings in the spring months and in the summer, so my contribution is summed up as follows: The time the King determines must not be far ahead of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e873	It's nodding from a particular team. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 430]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e883	The odelsting shall then vote against the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e947	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e960	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also opposes the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e974	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1017	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1239	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1298	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1407	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1417	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1425	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 4, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1499	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are against this paragraph. The President also assumes that the Advance Party and the Workers' Party will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1521	There is a proposal here, No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal was submitted after 8 p.m. Ninety-nine, but the president will suggest that there is still a vote over. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 7 June 1996 No. 31 on the Norwegian Church is amended as follows: The church meeting may approve direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops. Further conditions are laid down by the Church Meeting.» The proposal and the vote will be replaced by a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1534	We will first express our primary position related to section 24 seventh paragraph. Then we will vote subsidiaryly afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1541	Then we vote first on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, as far as Section 24 is concerned, the new seventh paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 7 June 1996 No. 31 on the Norwegian Church is amended as follows: The church meeting may, without prejudice to the provisions of the law here, approve trials with a two-year term of office and direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops. The conditions for each experiment are determined by the Church Meeting.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1561	Then we go to where we were a moment ago. It is therefore a matter of proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. Alternatively, between the proposal and the vote. – Are there any more recordings now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1568	If we vote as an alternative, we will not have the opportunity to vote against what we are going to vote against, namely direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops, which is part of the seventh term. So we can't vote alternately. First, we must vote on the Labour Party's proposal, and then we must be allowed to vote against direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1573	Yeah, that's got to be okay. That is when proposal No is voted on. Four, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1588	President! I have voted wrong. I ask that the vote be taken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1595	We're going to do that. We might have a challenge now. [[Small pause]] The question is whether there is majority support for the Workers' Party's proposals. If it gets a majority, the setting will fall away. There's been a little bit of a fuzzy signal, to say it like this. At least it has not been fully captured at the presidential table how the individual parties behave. But it shook its head. I'm interpreting it so that we can take up the proposal, as it was originally put up to, and then...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1604	Is it possible to divide the voting between the sixth and the seventh terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1611	We're done with the sixth term. I had, to put it straight out – with the experience both yesterday and today – appreciated that someone prepared their vote before a sitter and will vote. Now let's take up the proposal from the Workers' Party. Those who support it, use the pre-button and sit...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1618	President! We have stated that we will vote subsidiaryly when the Labour Party's proposal is set against the vote. We have made that clear in advance. But now we're going to have a different voting arrangement than what we've decided before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1625	From what is now said, the President must ask the Socialist Left if they intend to vote against both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1628	We will vote against direct elections to the Church Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1635	What terms? Will the Left Party vote against both sides or not? The content I can't go into right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1638	We're going to be in parts of the setting. But we shall vote against what goes on at direct elections to the Council of Churches and the Council of Bishops. We've prepared that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1645	It's going to be very hard to break up sentences. But I'm holding on to what I said before. The vote should be clarified before voting, and especially if one is to go so far as to break up sentences. The president takes a little hour out, so we're going to clarify how you're going to vote. Pronounced after a delay
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1654	Now I'm not the president completely, but the other vice president. My advice to those who have such proposals is that they definitely clarify voting in advance. Now we're going to follow the strong request of the Socialist Left Party and vote over a sentence in the middle of a paragraph. We can do that, because the president assumes that there is no majority for this. Those who support the proposal of the Socialist Left Party that the words ‘and direct elections to the Council of Churches and Bishops’ be taken out of the seventh paragraph of Section 24 use pre-button and sit. Those who vote for the setting for this part of the paragraph use the counter-button and get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1673	We can now vote alternatively between the Committee's position on the rest of the seventh paragraph of Section 24 and the Labour Party's proposal? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1694	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 7 June 1996 No. 31 on the Norwegian Church is amended as follows:§ 36 is replaced by the following: Confirmation training may not be added to the school’s time.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1729	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1739	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1775	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1785	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18-lower.ana.ud778e1796	There is no record. The President wants all the good Easter!
