ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e66	Honourable co-representatives! Former Prime Minister and Depositary Per Borten died on 20 January, 91 years old. With the death of Per Borten, we have lost one of the most significant political leaders in the post-war period in Norway. With his strong commitment and a powerful political voice, he has, over several generations, emerged as a leadership in Norwegian society. Up to the last, he took part in the public debate, and he retained a prominent place in our political arena even in the nearly 30 years that have passed since he left active national politics. Per Away became a political institution. Many saw him as the very incarnation of the Norwegian people’s soul – it’s a picture I think he would appreciate himself. The loss was born on 3 April 1913 in Få in Sør-Trøndelag. He graduated from the Norwegian Agricultural School in 1939 and received a position as a mercenary in the North East Valley. From 1941 he was a supply inspector and county sagronomist in the technical discipline of the South Trøndelag. He was elected rapporteur in the Municipality of Få in 1946 and chairman of the County Council in Sør-Trøndelag in 1948. The distance was chosen as a member of the Stortinget from the fall of 1949 until he refused to re-elect at the 1977 Grand Prix. In eight of those years he was president of Odelstinget. Both as a representative and as a member of the Presidentship of Stortinget, Per Borten was occupied by the position Stortinget should have as our first and foremost state power. A vital and living rule of the people with a short distance between the voters and the elected ones was one of his heart matters. He was always concerned about the consequences of a political decision for the individual human being, and many were also the ones who came to him with matters that he took up. The distance was in his long political career a community-builder, and he set strong tracks in Norwegian society. He was Prime Minister from 1965 to 1971. During this period, one of our most important welfare measures, that is, the fear of people, was implemented. He was, among other things, also very involved in the work of the Public Health Act. He challenged established power structures by focusing on openness and freedom of expression. He was a good helper to introduce state aid to the daily press based on a belief in the importance of free expression and differentiated daily press for democracy. He was very early out there warning against illegal surveillance. Away was very concerned with the efforts of the war ropes and was corrected by the injustices committed against them in Nortraship. He was the driving force when the Center Party in its time proposed to set up a social security court, which was later realized in what is now called social security. Per Borten was rooted in farming and rural culture. At the same time, he was early concerned with global issues and environmental protection. Environmental and resource problems became his main concern, and it is a lot of his profit that these problems became aware of in our political environment. His government appointed the Haugeland Committee, which in turn led to the establishment of the Ministry of the Environment. Away worked eagerly for a closer Nordic cooperation. Both as an active politician and later he has been central to the dispute over Norwegian membership of the European Union. Away was the leader of the Center Party from 1955 to 1967 and meant a great deal to the modernisation of the party. It was during his period the party changed its name from the Bond Party to the Center Party. Per Away's foremost characteristic as a politician was his unpretentious, popular style and his ability to see life from the stand to the people most. Confident and close to earth -- with a subtle sense of humor -- he got people talking. So he gained confidence far beyond the ranks of his own party. As a person he was open and sought-after, while stressing the importance of sticking to political lines and principles. He was solution oriented, and his ability to be a bridge builder was important for the central position he got. He sat fast in respect as a capable political craftsman, with a practical grip on things and with a rare ability to grasp the political points of a matter. The size listened when Per Away had the word. Many of his words and expressions have also become part of our common political vocabulary. Now that Per Away is gone, we feel that a chapter in Norwegian political history ends. It is desperate for far more than those who knew him personally. At the same time, we are grateful for the great effort he has made for society, and for having enjoyed his insight and experience in the service of democracy for so long. We remember Per Borten in deep respect and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e96	From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. That application concerns the period from 16 February to 18 February of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen and Gunn Karin Gjul to take part in the travel of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee to Ankara. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli and Mette KorsrudFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Ola RøtvejMette Korsrud is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets Julie Christiansen
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e136	Having regard to the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the weekly programme be amended in such a way that the Lamentations meeting is set before the Stortings meeting on Thursday of the current week. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e143	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e154	The representative of Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e157	I allow myself, on behalf of the representative Trond Giske and myself, to make a proposal for a ban on bingo rooms from the Tobacco Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e162	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e173	In 1905, Norway occupied an independent place in the international community. A desire for full independence, which had joined with increasing strength in the Norwegian people, had become a reality. 2005 is a year of foreign policy marking. The Norwegian foreign service is 100 years old, and Norway's official relations with many central cooperation countries are 100 years old. That is why we are already in the process of implementing a comprehensive foreign programme, which has three headings: we are going to make Norway visible as a modern cultural and knowledge nation; we are going to highlight the country's management of natural resources; and we are going to show Norway's role internationally in peace and development. This marking programme abroad in 2005 illustrates the work of strengthening Norway’s reputation internationally. This is an important part of the role of EEAS today. One may need to modernise the 'Norwegian images' or at least to nuance them. I have no doubt that a visible Norway, with a good reputation internationally, is of crucial importance both for Norwegian business, for cultural cooperation with the rest of the world and for the promotion of Norwegian political views. Visibility gives impact. Developments and experiences since 1905 have shown that, in response to the many common and cross-border challenges, national powers do not extend. The national board needs to be complemented by – yes, currently totally dependent – obliging international cooperation. This applies both to peace and security, to a sustainable environment and to the fight against poverty, disease and hunger. Here, all nations must contribute, within and beyond their own borders. During these 100 years, certain fundamental values and interests have grown in Norwegian foreign policy. In particular: our work on security, security and peace, both in our neighbourhood and in a global perspective on the promotion of democracy and human rights in other countries and our objective to combat poverty in order to create good, predictable financial framework conditions for Norwegian business interests and the consular tasks related to assisting Norwegian interests and Nordics abroad; The flood-wave disaster in Southeast Asia last Christmas Day shook an entire world and re-emphasized how vulnerable we are to the forces of nature. None of us remained untouched by the disaster. Even I visited some of the hardest hit areas in Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka. It made an indelible impression to see the human suffering and the enormous destruction with its own eyes. Many have contributed to the relief work in different ways. Everyone's made an effort that shows great respect. I would like to extend a warm thanks to all those who have been on it to help the relatives, the injured and everyone else who needed assistance and support. There are a large number of individuals, relief agencies, health professionals, representatives of the Church, the police and many others, including foreign service employees. They all did their utmost, in a critical and demanding situation. On 10 January, the Prime Minister gave a preliminary review of the management of the river-wave disaster by the authorities in his statement to the Stortinget. Now a government-designated sample is working on evaluating this. I have myself initiated a quick, internal review of the external service management. Therefore, I do not want to go into these issues more closely now, but I would like to point out that, in order to strengthen preparedness immediately, we have implemented two measures. Firstly, two crisis teams are set up to be ready to leave for a crisis area at very short notice. Secondly, there has been an upgrade of the instruments at our disposal. This includes, inter alia: The department's own crisis centre. Respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is the foundation of Norwegian society. These values are also important prerequisites for the economic growth and well-being of which our society is characterized. We have also seen internationally that democracy is the best guarantee of security, peace and stability. The promotion of democracy and respect for human rights are therefore the objectives of Norwegian foreign policy. We want to engage where democracy is oppressed and poor. These are important contributions to international security and peace. Although the challenges remain significant, it is gratifying to note that more and more countries are moving in a democratic direction. The recent elections in Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine and the Palestinian region have all contributed to the progress of democracy. The countries have taken steps in a democratic direction. It's a very positive development that we want to actively support. We hope that the elections will also serve as examples for other countries. In Iraq, the election was primarily a victory for the voters, despite terror and violence. It showed that the people's will had not been broken by decades of oppression. It showed a genuine willingness to further democratic development. Election attendance of 58 p.m. Nationally, the fear was higher than that of many, but the upsurge was very low in some sunni-dominated areas. Some of this was due to the fear of being affected by terror, and something was due to a desire not to participate in the elections. It can't give a veto to those who gave up the further political process. However, in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the regime and its stability, it is important that Sunni Muslims also participate. Winners of the election, i.e. the Shia Muslim majority and the Kurdish parties must ensure that all ethnic and religious groups are involved in the further development. So far, it looks like there's a will for it. At the same time, it is positive that some representatives of groups such as the Boicotte elections have expressed a desire to cooperate with the authorities in the preparation of the country’s new constitution. The choice also shows that it was right early to focus on what could bring Iraq back and forth to full Iraqi rule. It has been important not to let violence derail this work. Norway has therefore consistently concluded on the political process in Iraq, as adopted by the UN Security Council. I explained this in Stortinget on 23 November last year. Through the UN, we also contributed financially to the closure of the elections. Iraq is now given a legitimate election, a temporary national assembly and has thus taken a long step towards real democracy. Norway has provided funds for reconstruction and through NATO contributes to the training of Iraqi security forces. But as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland, pointed out in a question in the Questionnaire two weeks ago, a sustained effort to build up civil institutions and organisations in Iraq is also important. I fully agree with Mr Jagland that this form of democracy building needs our support, and it would therefore be natural to assess this when a new Iraqi government is in place and had to ask for it. We look forward to continued good cooperation with the Iraqi authorities. Not least this is the case in the petroleum sector, where we are starting cooperation on several projects. We also need to do our part to help create a basis for economic growth in Iraq. The elections in Afghanistan were also a confirmation of the people's will for democratic development. Relatively high selectivity, not least among women, testifies to this. From the Norwegian side, we contributed not only to the security of the country but also financially to the elections via the UN, and we will follow up with more support for the parliamentary elections scheduled for spring. Support for the Afghan Human Rights Commission will also be continued. The elections in Ukraine showed the importance of strong popular commitment, which resulted in the election of President Yushchenko on 26 December. The country made a clear choice for democracy and against corruption and the rule of few men. Strengthening Ukraine’s cooperation with the European and transatlantic institutions is now an important task. We also need to support civil society and the media in this country. Norway therefore strengthens significant cooperation with Ukraine in the field of democracy building. The presidential election in the Palestinian region was a solid confirmation of the people's willingness to build a society based on democratic values. After all, this will be confirmed by Parliamentary elections for the summer. President Abbas has, ever since his election, shown the will and ability to go new ways to start a new process towards peace. So let's hope that the meeting in Sharm el Sheikh really heralded a turning point. Their promise of mutual stoppage in violence can be the beginning of a new chapter focusing once again on a Palestinian state that lives peacefully with Israel. As we all know, it's not the first time the parties have promised to suspend the acts of violence, and we've been disappointed many times. This time, however, understanding in the area of security is also supported by a concrete possibility of full Israeli withdrawal and evacuation of the Jewish settlements from Gaza during 2005. It is gratifying that the parties agreed to coordinate this withdrawal. This is a prerequisite for the success of this operation. It is important that the international community now maintains its withdrawal in line with the so-called Roadmap for Peace and the vision of a two-state solution. Only a collective and targeted work on the part of the so-called Quartet, i.e. The UN, the EU, the United States and Russia will be able to give strength and legitimacy to the continued peace process. From our side, we are ready to contribute to exploiting the new opportunities that have arisen to resume the implementation of the Roadmap and after each peace negotiations. Well-functioning Palestinian authorities will be important in order to achieve a viable two-state solution. We will therefore continue our extensive contribution to the Palestinian reform efforts. The donor country group AHLC, chaired by Norway, will be central to this work. The focus on democracy development as part of foreign and development policy also means promoting good governance, openness and the fight against corruption. We are conducting human rights dialogues with China, Indonesia and Vietnam. This kind of political contact is a concrete and constructive form of human rights work in which we have great faith. Unfortunately, Burma is an example of the continuing need to make substantial efforts to promote democratic development. The consequences of the harvest replacements in the regime remain unclear. Through the UN and other channels, we are working to support democratic forces in Burma. Aung San Suu Kyi and the democratic forces must be given the opportunity to participate in the political process. Norway has for a number of years supported the Burmese exile environment and contributed to the strengthening of civil society. We are also working to encourage countries in the region to promote political reforms in Burma through their channels. However, it has been shown that neither the penalty line nor the exposure line has contributed to changes in the regime’s policy. We therefore need to constantly assess which instruments are most appropriate to support democratic development in the country. Measures to promote dialogue will thus be central. Another bearer of Norwegian foreign policy is internationally committed cooperation within the framework of the UN, which this year marks its 60th anniversary. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has taken specific initiatives to strengthen the organisation during the anniversary year. This will also give the world community the opportunity to confirm its commitment to the UN and the UN Pact. A high-level panel set up by the Secretary-General recently presented proposals on how to better address threats to international peace and security. The Panel concludes that the world faces a number of different threats and challenges that no country can address alone, such as combating poverty and disease, climate change and environmental threats, preventing and resolving internal conflicts, combating terrorism and international organised crime. The panel shows how the threats are linked and how they need to be addressed through joint action on a broad front. The UN General Assembly will, later this year, discuss the proposals of the High Level Panel together with a recent report on what is needed to achieve the Millennium Poverty Response Goals by 2015. Our views on the High Level Panel's proposals can be summarised in five points: Firstly, we in Norway attach great importance to the follow-up of the reform proposals by means of concrete measures. Secondly, we need to strengthen the credibility, authority and power of action of the Security Council. There is now an opportunity to look with fresh eyes at the composition of the Council. A better balance between regions could be achieved through an expansion of the membership of both permanent and elected members. Our position is that small countries must continue to have opportunities to become involved in the Security Council, and the Council must have a composition that takes into account those countries that contribute much to the UN's objectives of peace, security and development assistance. This is also the panel's recommendation. It is important, however, that the discussion on the composition of the Council should not overshadow the many other challenges and recommendations. Among these – and as my third point – we support the High Level Panel's proposal to strengthen the UN's efforts for peaceful conflict resolution and state-building. The proposal to strengthen the UN's capacity to operate peace building in the broadest sense is positive. This also includes measures to prevent conflicts, to support weak states and to assist countries in the transition from war to peace. For many years Norway has called for an integrated approach, i.e. Policy action, security, humanitarian and development assistance are seen in the context and – fourthly – Norway joins the Panel’s emphasis on the fact that the world community cannot fail to act when a country’s authorities fail to protect their own population. The experience of Rwanda and Srebrenica shows the need to create greater international consensus on the need for joint action. Among other things, attention must be paid to early intervention before the need for military action becomes apparent. Fifthly, Norway agrees with the panel's proposal on universal membership of the UN Commission on Human Rights. This will contribute to increased legitimacy for the Commission, by turning the political focus away from who are members, and on the issues the Commission is dealing with. In other words, we now have a unique opportunity to reform and modernise the UN to meet the challenges of a new century. The main objective is to be able to jointly reduce both new and old threats to our common security and strengthen efforts to achieve the Millennium Goals. It is the UN High Level Meeting in September that must provide the basis for the necessary changes. The alternative will be a weakened world organization and a more unpredictable and unsafe world for all of us. With regard to the UN's peacekeeping role, we are facing particularly major challenges in Africa. Norway has been at the forefront of its efforts to find a peaceful solution to the long-term conflict in Sudan. We expect the UN Security Council to adopt in a short time a resolution on the establishment of a peace-supporting operation for Sudan to assist the new government in the implementation of the peace agreement signed in Nairobi on 9 January this year. The operation will have a complex mandate. The UN shall monitor both the ceasefire and channel and coordinate humanitarian assistance and long-term development assistance to Sudan. In order to monitor the ceasefire, the UN is planning a combination of military observers and civil police and a military protection force and relief troops, in total, above 10,000 people. Norway will contribute to the success of this operation. In addition to supporting the humanitarian and development programmes, the Government has decided to make available staff officers, military observers and a sanitary unit to the military part of the operation. Overall, our military contribution will be 30 people. It is also to be assessed whether we should contribute a smaller number of police advisers to the operation. The government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for contributions and additional funding, so that we can maintain the contribution over time at at least the same level. Norway will organise a donor country conference for Sudan, hopefully during April this year. Peaceful development throughout Sudan will be important for the international community to provide significant funds for the reconstruction of the country. It is also a major task for the international community to contribute to the reduction of human suffering in the Darfur region. I look very seriously at the serious violations in Darfur that are documented in the report of the United Nations Commission on Investigation. The Security Council will examine the report at the end of February and decide on further handling. From the Norwegian side, we will call for the report to be forwarded to the International Criminal Court in The Hague for further follow-up. The peace agreement negotiated in Naivasha opens up a political solution also in Darfur. The Agreement will change the composition of the Government of Khartoum and provides the basis for a new political system that will apply to the whole of Sudan. We must prevent the Darfur conflict from threatening the peace agreement. From the Norwegian side, we helped to get the parties in Darfur to meet at the negotiating table, and we will continue to provide substantial support for the African Union surveillance operation in Darfur. Norway has also engaged in other African conflicts. We are in constant contact with the parties to Ethiopia and Eritrea about the locked conflict there, and Norwegian military observers are involved in the UN operation monitoring the border between the two countries. We are trying to contribute to contact between the Ugandan Government and the northern Ugandan rebel movement with a view to bringing the tragic conflict in this region to an end. However, it is important that African countries themselves take responsibility for creating a more peaceful and stable continent. It is gratifying to note that the will is more evident now, which I experienced when in November last year I met the head of the African Union. The African Union has now established its own UN-designed Peace and Security Council and closely cooperates with the United Nations on burden-sharing and responsibilities. I want to strengthen our cooperation with the African Union. We will therefore enter into a framework agreement with the AU in a short time for increased long-term support in capacity building for peace and security. The main objective is to support African countries themselves to take more responsibility for resolving their own conflicts. It is therefore positive that the strengthening of peacekeeping operations in Africa is increasingly coming from African countries themselves. One example is cooperation with African organisations on peacekeeping, the so-called Training for Peace in Southern Africa. This is a very successful programme, which is now being extended to West Africa. We also want to contribute to enhanced regional cooperation to prevent the illicit spread of small arms. Norway also supports the High Level Panel of the United Nations in the proposal for a better framework for joint action against international terrorism, which must also include police cooperation, intelligence cooperation and enhanced control of financial transactions. The tragic acts of terrorism in New York, Bali, Madrid and Beslan show that we are facing a global threat. There are no easy solutions in the fight against international terrorism. The success of combating terrorist networks requires strong and long-term international cooperation where the United Nations must have a central role. It is also essential that regional organisations such as the EU and NATO play an active role in combating terrorist networks. We also agree with the High Level Panel of the United Nations on the need to strengthen international cooperation in order to prevent the proliferation and use of weapons of mass destruction. The agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is one of the most important international instruments in this work. We have taken the initiative to ensure that in May this year the Conference of Supervisors will have a result that will help to strengthen the provisions of the Agreement. This will be discussed at a preparatory meeting in Oslo in March. Iran’s nuclear programmes are a key challenge for the international community in terms of non-proliferation. By signing the NPT, Iran has undertaken not to acquire nuclear weapons. The recent uncertainty about the country’s intentions is therefore serious. However, it is positive that Iran has reached agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency on suspending uranium enrichment programmes and providing full transparency in its nuclear programme. The EU had a positive role in this work. However, this stop in enrichment must be permanent, and Iran must fulfil its promises of full transparency. We must be clear in our demand that Iran not acquire nuclear weapons. It is important that the international community work together to find a political solution to Iran’s issue. Agreement between the United States and Europe will strengthen the possibilities for such a solution. North Korea's statements that it owns nuclear weapons and will no longer participate in new rounds of negotiations on these issues are very regrettable. The position of North Korea poses a real danger and a significant challenge to international efforts to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is now important to resume the six-party negotiations in order to find a political solution. NATO has ensured peace and democracy in Europe. Our NATO membership is a basic element of our foreign and security policy. The rapid expansion of NATO has increasingly been linked to the community of values on which the alliance is based. Through its peacekeeping operations, NATO has helped to secure peace and support democratic forces in the Balkans and Afghanistan. The United States and Europe have traditionally been united in taking responsibility for resolving international conflicts and dealing with humanitarian disasters. The desire for stronger transatlantic cooperation was expressed when I met my allies in Brussels last week. The meeting showed that there is now a real willingness to enter into a more active dialogue between the United States and Europe. I expect the NATO summit next week to confirm this willingness. It's only through stronger transatlantic cooperation that we can face today's security threats. On the American side, too, this is recognised. Only jointly can we contribute to lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan, the Middle East and Iraq. In such a community, the United States must be willing to listen to European views on issues that affect us all. But enhanced transatlantic cooperation is not just based on the United States. Europe must also show its will. It is therefore gratifying that central European countries are now highlighting the importance of closer cooperation with the United States, as we see clear signs of this. At the same time, we see signs that the dialogue between the United States and Europe on security policy issues will not only take place within NATO. Central European countries such as France and Germany want to strengthen the direct dialogue with the United States on foreign and security policy issues, and they see a more independent role for the EU. The statement by German Chancellor Schröder this weekend that NATO is no longer the primary forum in which the transatlantic partners discuss and coordinate their strategies, raise questions and raise concerns. Germany has traditionally been Atlantic oriented. There are questions about NATO's role. NATO is fundamental to our foreign policy orientation. A development in which the core of the transatlantic dialogue takes place directly between the EU and the United States will present Norway with significant challenges. We could be at risk of further marginalization. At the same time, it is important now to build on the clear will that exists, both in Europe and in the United States, to strengthen dialogue and cooperation within NATO. Afghanistan is a concrete example of how strong transatlantic cooperation can achieve results. For example, the international stabilisation force under the leadership of NATO, ISAF, was: crucial to the successful conduct of the presidential elections. One of the main challenges facing Afghanistan, with the support of the international community, is now to facilitate the parliamentary elections later this year. The security situation is likely to be tense towards the choice. NATO must therefore continue to contribute to stability and security in the country. That is the main reason why during the year the ISAF force will gradually expand west and south in Afghanistan. Norway will continue to contribute significantly to NATO’s operation in Afghanistan also outside Kabul. Today we are participating in a British-led regional stabilisation team in Meymaneh, northern Afghanistan. We are in discussions with the United Kingdom with a view to enabling Norway to take over the management of this stabilisation team later this year. This could be a natural continuation of our participation in North Afghanistan and will help facilitate the further expansion of ISAF. Although much has been achieved to combat the terrorist organisation Al Qaida and the former Taliban regime, parts of the network continue to operate in the border area against Pakistan. This is a threat both to President Karzai's government and to NATO's stabilisation task. And that's a global threat. Therefore, the US-led ‘Enduring Freedom’, OEF, operation is also still necessary. Norway received a request from the United States to deploy Norwegian special forces for this operation in 2005. The Government proposes to respond positively to the request and aims to make a contribution for a period of up to six months. Norway’s contribution to the OEC will be a follow-up to the corresponding previous contribution. In 2002 and 2003, Norway contributed with special forces, transport and hunting aircraft and miners. The experience with the contributions was good, which is also behind the renewed referral from the United States. After NATO took over the ISAF force in 2003, we have given priority to contributing to it. At the same time, we are now in a situation where a Norwegian contribution to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation will not go beyond our participation in NATO’s operation. Norwegian participation in the OEC will primarily aim at combating international terrorism while contributing to the security and security of Afghanistan that is a prerequisite for the continuation of the NATO-led operation ISAF. There is now a debate in NATO on better coordination of these two operations in Afghanistan. Coordination will become increasingly important as ISAF extends its responsibilities also to the south and east of Afghanistan where the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation is ongoing. In the long term, both operations may be subject to a common command. We will support this on the Norwegian side. Another main challenge is increasing drug production, which also affects our societies. Developments are devastating for the democratic process. However, President Karzai attaches great importance to combating this production. He will only succeed with the help of the international community, and there is a special need to involve Afghanistan's neighbouring country in this work. This is why we from Norway are contributing to cooperation projects, among others. under the auspices of the United Nations to combat drug traffic. NATO is making an important effort to train Iraqi security forces, which also contributes to Norway. Higher Iraqi officers are trained at the NATO headquarters in Stavanger, and here a new group will be able to start training next month. We are also in dialogue with Iraqi authorities with a view to training Iraqi police officers in Norway. Work on strengthening the common European security and defence policy continues, in line with EU policy objectives. The EU wants to take greater responsibility on international issues. This will in the long term contribute to a more balanced burden-sharing between Europe and the United States. We'll be able to do this on both sides of the Atlantic. In December, the EU took over NATO military operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where Norway contributes. This is currently the EU's most remote military involvement. We must expect that a successful operation will strengthen the EU's desire to further develop its defence and security policy. Other important decisions taken by the EU in the field of defence and security policy are the establishment of intervention forces and closer defence-related cooperation. The establishment of intervention forces is important for the EU’s ability to support UN crisis management operations. I have great faith that the development of these types of military forces will make it easier for the United Nations to intervene early in regional conflicts. The work of establishing a Nordic effort force is as planned. As previously announced by Stortinget, we are now completing the agreement basis with Sweden and Finland for the establishment of this force. We are also in the process of making an exchange of letters with the EU to clarify the conditions for Norwegian participation. European defence equipment cooperation has recently become part of the EU. We will soon conclude a cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency, the EDA. Cooperation with the EDA will be an important element of our dialogue with the EU on defence policy issues. The agreement involves regular consultations and at the same time opens up Norwegian participation in EDA projects and programmes. We are also in dialogue with the European Union on enhanced cooperation in civil crisis management. This also applies to the EU's plans to establish its own strength for civilian crisis management, which has been further updated following the flood disaster in Southeast Asia. This is an area in which we have experience. We have established a civil crisis management security force abroad with personnel from all parts of the legal chain. We have already attracted this strength – or ‘The Stark Well’ – on several occasions. Strengthening well staff are now in Georgia to contribute to reforms in the justice sector. Although Norway has chosen to stand outside the EU, close and close cooperation in Europe is of great importance to our foreign policy. For the active European policy of the Government, the development of the EU is of central importance. The EU plays a significant role in peace, security and democracy throughout Europe. In 2004, it became a brand year. On 1 May, ten new countries became members. However, the extension of the four-year period is not an end-station. Bulgaria and Romania will become members from 2007. The EEA will be extended accordingly. Croatia, Macedonia and Turkey have all applied for membership. The new President of Ukraine has stated that membership is a long-term goal. The EU decision to start membership negotiations with Turkey is historic. The possibility of membership is a strong driver for democratic reforms in the country. This implies a new era in the EU enlargement process, but Turkish membership is still well ahead. It will have consequences for Norway. Eventually, Turkey will be able to become our partner also in the internal market, with the opportunities and challenges it presents. In June, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union adopted a new Constitutional Treaty, which is an important step towards the further development of the European Union. The Constitutional Treaty involves the implementation of reforms which allow institutions to effectively pursue Community interests even after the forthcoming enlargements. In other words, it will lead to the simplification and democratisation of the EU. For Norway, as for the rest of Europe, it is positive that the EU, through enlargement and treaty reform, strengthens its efforts for stability, democracy and peaceful development. But it also poses very special challenges for Norway. It will not be easier to take advantage of Norwegian interests and views when the EU is enlarged and has faster and more effective decision-making procedures. EU cooperation is increasingly affecting Norway, while reducing our own opportunities to influence as EU cooperation expands and deepens. This is an important recognition, and a cross of thought. The EU competitiveness strategy for the period 2000–2010, the Lisoba Strategy, is now one of the most important issues on the EU agenda. However, the EU is struggling to achieve the strategy’s objective of a more competitive Europe. Norway is facing some of the same structural challenges as the EU, and we share and support the objectives of the strategy. It is important to maintain a balance between the objectives of the strategy on economic growth, a sustainable environment and social cohesion. In practice, this means preserving the best from the welfare state, while improving competitiveness and safeguarding environmental considerations. The EU’s new neighbourhood policy demonstrates the willingness to continue and strengthen contacts with countries outside the Community. This was particularly reflected in the acute situation during the elections in Ukraine. The role of the EU was very important for a peaceful solution and provided clear support for democracy and human rights. Our inner and outer security is becoming increasingly intertwined. The EU is increasingly using both foreign and justice policy instruments to address threats and challenges related to trafficking in human beings and other organised crime. Important elements here are partnership with third countries and cooperation on democracy and welfare promotion in these countries. For Norway, it is a particular challenge to ensure that Schengen-related issues continue to be discussed in the Joint Body, especially when matters become more and more cross-sectoral and the Schengen relevance is not as clearly defined. Norway is the EU’s main fishing partner. It gives us a lot of weight. In recent years, we have increasingly asserted our rights and shown our willingness to stand by them. The EU's relationship with fisheries is complicated by the fact that the EU is facing a number of internal challenges. Despite internal resistance, the EU is also actively working to control resource withdrawals and overcapacity in the fishing fleet. The management of our fishing resources is based on the principle of sustainable harvesting. From our point of view, we place great emphasis on zone proximity when resources are shared between several countries. Cooperation between Norway and the EU in the fisheries sector has produced significant results, but important unresolved problems remain. One important issue at the moment is the negotiations on Norwegian springing herring. There is a huge imbalance between the proportion of the total quota in Norway over the last few years and the zone of herring belonging to Norway. In the negotiations with the EU, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Russia, we have made it clear that we must have a greater share of this fishing. The government gives very high priority to ensuring the export of fish and seafood a stable and predictable market access. Our farming industry has been exposed to accusations and trade policy measures on the EU market for 15 years. The EU introduced last week protective measures against imports of farmed salmon. The main effects of the measure are Norway and Chile. The case was raised at the European Commission’s table in the form of a complaint from the Scottish and Irish salmon industry one year ago. Both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and I have repeatedly raised this serious issue with the EU Member States and with the members of the Commission. This is not just a conflict between Norway and the EU. It is also about the strength relationship in the EU between countries with large processing industries and countries that want to protect small raw materials producers. Both consumers and the EU processing industry are losers in this case. The Government has made a thorough assessment of the complaint underlying the measures and considers that there is no basis for safeguard measures and that the imposition of such measures would be contrary to WTO law. When the measures are now a fact, we have no choice but to take the case to the WTO. In this situation, WTO legislation is our main instrument for combating arbitraryness, protectionism and the most powerful. Let me mention a specific matter as briefly as the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom has previously asked for further information. The action plan of the European Commission on measures to combat the import of illegally harvested timber. The EU is now working on a regulation that is expected to be adopted during 2005. Of course, the government shares the EU's objective of preventing illegal logging and trafficking in illegally harvested timber. We therefore have close contact with the Commission in the implementation of the action plan, including: to assess closer cooperation where appropriate. Norway will also actively work in other relevant multilateral forums to prevent the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber. The International Tropical Timber Organisation should inter alia: be given a strengthened mandate to address issues related to illegal hoarding and certification schemes. So a few words about the northern regions. The government has initiated a broad review of the challenges and opportunities, and will shortly provide a key message. The main message of the Communication will be that we see great and positive opportunities, not least in terms of economic development. At the same time, it is important to ensure that this development can take place in a sustainable way. There has been a profound change in the northern regions since the cold days of war. At that time, developments in the north were dominated by security policy, and our main challenge was to ensure allied presence in the north. Today, security policy issues have come to the fore, and issues related to the environment and resources have been raised on the political agenda. While during the Cold War we could expect allied support for our north-eastern policy, today we cannot take it for granted that our allies fully share our assessments and interests. Our challenge will be to gain an understanding of, and support for, Norwegian views and Norwegian assessments. This applies not least to the important environmental and economic balance relating to the exploitation of natural resources. Issues relating to climate change in the Arctic must be put on the political agenda, also in other countries. The Arctic Council climate change report showed that climate change in the Arctic is accelerating and will have greater consequences than previously thought. A new report shows that there is a greater risk of melting than we have previously assumed. Recent research thus shows that changes are progressing — and appear to be growing — faster than we assumed four to five years ago. Global greenhouse gas emissions therefore need to be drastically reduced. With the new national quota system, Norway has put in place an instrument that captures the vast majority of our emissions. We are under our Kyoto commitments, but globally these are far from sufficient. That is why we are actively working towards a more comprehensive climate regime from 2012, and we are prepared to take part in this. Sustainable use of natural resources is also included as part of the Northern Region Dialogues launched by the Government with central countries, focusing on both security policy and energy policy issues. We have started such talks with Germany and the United States, and we will follow up on countries like France, the United Kingdom and Canada. In parallel with this, we will strengthen cooperation with Russia in the north. During my visit to North-West Russia and in the Churchnes a few weeks ago, I noted great optimism and enthusiasm on both sides of the border. I received positive news of a strong increase in trade and industrial cooperation and a strong belief in the prospects for the development of gas and oil resources that open up to the development of northern parts of the country. But I also met a concern, on both sides of the border, that we politicians are unable to keep up with the development and the challenges it is travelling. Bilateral cooperation with Russia is developing positively and embraces a wide range of areas of cooperation. Not least, people of the people-cooperation in the Barents region are a success. In one central area, cooperation on the Norwegian and Russian sides of the border has not responded to expectations, and that concerns business. In fact, trade has increased by more than 30 pst. the last year and progress is gradually moving in the right direction. However, a key factor for continued progress is long-term, stable and well-known framework conditions that only the Russian authorities can provide. The future exploitation of oil and gas deposits on land and off the coast of the Barents Sea could trigger a major economic cooperation potential. It is also important that issues relating to environmental and energy resources are given a more central place in cooperation with the Russians, primarily bilaterally, but also within the framework of the Arctic Council and Barents Cooperation. The North Sea Communication will propose concrete actions in the development of bilateral cooperation and at the Barents and Arctic Councils. We also need to look at the tools we have for cooperation in the north. In my view, Barents' cooperation works well at regional level. Here the three states of the north and the Barents Secretariat play an important role. It's built trust and an impressive network across the border. It provides a good basis for more ambitious political cooperation in the coming years. In my view, the intergovernmental aspect of Barents' cooperation, which has now worked for over ten years, may require a review and modernisation. I would therefore like to take an initiative to have an independent evaluation of this part. The demarcation of the continental shelf and the 200-mile zones in the Barents Sea is a matter of great importance to both countries. The Government prioritizes work on reaching a demarcation agreement which, overall, takes care of the interests of both parties. But significant challenges remain. On this issue, we should not allow short-term consideration to be given to the need for a good solution for Norway, a solution that will also remain in the long term. Cooperation with Russia on major fish stocks in the Barents Sea is an important part of bilateral relations. Economic cohesion, research and management related to fisheries have largely worked well and have been significant, common areas of interest for many years. At the heart of this cooperation is the principle of sustainable exploitation and management of marine living resources. However, important aspects of this cooperation with Russia have been challenging in recent years. This concerns the control of resource extraction and cooperation on research sticks. From the Norwegian side, we are working widely and continuously to get good common solutions to the challenges we face. In order for us to continue to be responsible and tidy managers of valuable resources, we must succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e418	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e431	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Haga on raising transparency in WTO negotiations on the political agenda. These negotiations largely affect Norway and Norwegian industrial interests, as they do in other countries, and therefore transparency about what is happening is very important. When the Storting addressed the globalisation message last year, a unanimous committee said that it is important to continue to work on the issue of transparency both within and outside the WTO and to further strengthen developing countries in the negotiations themselves. As the minority refers to in the suspension we are dealing with today, the need for transparency and information on WTO processes was also highlighted in the context of the recent treatment of the development message by the Stortinge. As the majority refers to, it is the Government that has the constitutional responsibility to negotiate in the World Trade Organisation. However, the majority emphasise the importance of regularly consulting and informing the Storting. Last year we had a debate on the WTO in Stortinget, after the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on the status of the negotiations last October. I assume that the government is continuously assessing the need for new consultations. Civil society must also be involved in the process. During the meeting in Cancún in the autumn of 2003, representatives of civil society and representatives from Stortinget were present in the Norwegian delegation. I myself had the pleasure of being part of the Norwegian delegation. My impression is that both business organisations and non-profit institutions value being included and informed about the current positions and negotiations. I have noticed the criticism that there was no broad representation at the important meeting in Geneva, where a crucial framework agreement was reached for the further negotiations. The majority of the Committee therefore underlines the importance of a broad representation of key cross-roads in the WTO negotiations. In a letter dated 1 December 2004, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented the decision-making process and the Government's measures on transparency and information to the Stortinget, civil society and the public. In the United Nations on 26 October last year, it was claimed that the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Nordic's most closed vis-à-vis the country's peoples when it comes to informing about the WTO service negotiations. In response to questions from the Workers' Party, the Ministry of the Nordic and European countries, where it is also explained that there are certain restrictions on transparency, for tactical reasons. I would like to remind you that on repeated occasions the Stortinget has stressed that Norway must not help to push developing countries into liberalisation and privatisation in core areas such as school, health, energy and water supply. Such coercion does not follow from the GATS agreement either. A committed multilateral trading system is the best means of combating arbitrariness, protectionism and the most powerful right. Such legislation is particularly important for small countries and for economic development in poor countries. This round of negotiations has also been called the development round and is primarily concerned with safeguarding the interests of developing countries. Negotiations in the WTO take place at both formal and informal levels. It remains a challenge for many developing countries to have limited capacity to participate in the large number of meetings and informal discussions and to handle and process the large amount of information. The majority of the Committee has noted that Norway is taking this seriously and is among the largest donor countries for trade-related technical assistance, which aims to strengthen this capacity. The majority would therefore stress the importance of Norway continuing with a high level of trade-related assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e457	I only have a few comments. I support what the case rapporteur says, and it also takes care of our thoughts on this issue. I also want to give the government some praise for the Doha round, which has now been going on for a while. As we feel it, we have seen a positive development in transparency. I'm pretty sure the government shares that view that the more transparency and information you can contribute, the better it is. The more debate we get out among people, organisations and stakeholders on these key issues, the better it is. Therefore, we hope that the policy is based on the fact that, as far as it is sound and possible, information is put out and contributes to transparency, and that it should be done both in the Biggest and outside the Biggest. We were also a bit critical of how things went in Geneva. It was a development that was probably not meant to be like it was; the meeting in Geneva became something more central than what was meant. We felt, as the rapporteur quite rightly explained, that at the Cancún meeting, outside stakeholders were included in a way that was different from what it was possible to achieve at the Geneva meeting. This meant that both organisations and perhaps some from Stortinget felt that the Geneva meeting evolved in a way that made several of us perhaps want to be in a more central way. To the extent that it is possible for the Government to take it with it and take that into account in the future, we think it will be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e468	I think it's gotten better, that it's become more open. I feel it this way. Nevertheless, we can find reason from the SV page to support all proposals from the Central Party by one. Slow progress has been made in the future. I thought the government should have all the honor of that. I was also in Cancún. What was good in Cancún was that the U-country went hopping and said no to be determined by everything that goes on in 'green rooms' and everything that had to be done with cheating both here and there. The positive thing was they actually stood up to it. But the negative thing about Cancún was that we didn't get a single step further, because the world needs a WTO agreement also to achieve a fairer world trade, based on SV's point of view. So there's a two-sword we're discussing. I thought the most important control body was Stortinget. The last foreign minister had a statement here, the opposition came up with a number of points that we asked if he would want to go further in the negotiations. And not one of those points he refused to take with him at least. So the next time he comes with a statement, we get to check it on all of those points. That's what we can do here in this hall. If it were that simple, I don't think it would have been such a big problem. But the biggest problems are in the world-wide democratic deficit in the WTO, precisely because many developing countries have no capacity. They don't even have the ability to follow what's on the agenda – it can even have problems here in Stortinget. At least developing countries have major problems in knowing what is on the agenda, and in addition have enough negotiating capacity to promote their ambitions. But for the most part, Norway has been supporting this work, making facilities more accessible to several countries. It's also going to be commended by the Government. From the SV's point of view, we have previously asked – and the Foreign Minister has partly responded – that the Government present consequences of WTO negotiations for developing countries and, of course, consequences for Norwegian district policy. It's precisely because we're talking about almost irreversible things, that openness is so important. The Minister for Foreign Affairs put it at the head of his statement last here: should Norway, like the 147th country, say no? Nobody went up to the pulpit and said that directly. This is why it is so important that there is the most openness and the most possible distribution and evaluation from the Government’s side with regard to the consequences of the agreements Norway may agree to have its signature on. We've discussed this many times before. I should not keep a long post that it has appeared before when Norway has kept something secret, that the EU had not kept it secret. So parts of it were published, and it turned out that it didn't have that much impact. However, we should be aware that there is a liberalisation process in the area of education, within the energy market, which is also part of the local debate in Norway, on the right of return, on education, on the privatisation of schools, etc. That is why it is so important that we also know what the Government is doing in negotiations, not least with other poor countries. We need to see these policy areas in context, what we demand out there, and what kind of development we get in these areas home. I will deal with the proposal that we are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e485	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e488	In an increasingly globalised world, international trade concerns us all. In order for globalisation and world trade to provide opportunities for all, we need rules of play to ensure that everyone is able to share in the good and that well-being is fairly distributed. Through the WTO, today we have a trading system that protects us from arbitrariness, protectionism and the strongest right in world trade. A key objective of the Doha Round is to better integrate developing countries into world trade, so that they are more involved in global economic development than they are today. If developing countries participate more in international trade in a way that is sustainable and benefits the entire population, it will make a significant contribution to growth and increased well-being for developing countries. In the Christian People's Party, we are therefore pleased that the Government attaches great importance to the respect of the interests of developing countries in the negotiations and that particular attention is paid to the least developed countries. Global trade is not an end in itself, but one of several means of achieving human development and a better life for the world's poorest. If the existing trade regime does not contribute to this, we must change it, do not distance ourselves from it. It also concerns the issue of transparency and more democratic processes in the WTO. Knowing the importance of the outcome of the WTO negotiations for the countries concerned, it is absolutely central that everyone should participate in the decision-making process and in the meetings. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement in the autumn, developing countries are becoming increasingly active in the WTO, and the agreement we reached this summer would not have been possible without the constructive involvement of them. On the other hand, we know that there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction with the internal flow of information in the WTO. The WTO General Council adopted new guidelines in 2000 to ensure better transparency and influence in the process for each Member State. The challenge is to ensure that these guidelines are complied with in practice. While most Member States seem satisfied with the practice of these guidelines, some developing countries still have difficulties in being able to participate in the many meetings and informal discussions. They also have difficulties in handling and processing the large amount of information. Here Norway has played a central role and provided trade-related technical assistance to strengthen their capacity in this field. Our government has also given developing countries, among others. travel assistance to enable them to send representatives at WTO Ministerial Conferences. Norway was also among the initiators of the establishment of an independent advisory centre providing developing countries, in particular the least developed, training, support and guidance in WTO legislation and dispute resolution procedures. In the last two decades, we have seen an expansion of the role of civil society. This expansion, together with increased demands to solve global problems through partnership between state and non-state actors, must be taken seriously by the WTO. Many civil society organisations want more meaningful and substantial participation. It has to be taken into account. The contributions of civil society are important. It's no longer a question of whether civil society should participate, but in what way we can best and most effectively do this. Much can be done by relatively simple means. It's e.g. the possibility to transfer more from some meetings over the Internet. Direct information will then be easily accessible to many more, including small organisations with limited budgets. Openness and access to documents have been improved in the WTO, and many official documents are currently available on the Internet. The WTO Secretariat and the Director-General regularly meet non-governmental organisations, keep briefings on the meetings of WTO committees and councils, and many attend plenary meetings at ministerial meetings and conferences. In Cancún there were 1,578 representatives of 795 NGOs, compared with 235 representatives of 108 organisations in Singapore seven years earlier. We're going in the right direction, but there's also a lot left in terms of transparency and access to information. Not all Member States agree on external transparency. Developing countries, but also many developed countries, are generally sceptical about giving non-governmental organisations access to WTO meetings. They are afraid strong press groups will be able to govern and influence the Member States during the negotiations. Norway is one of the few countries that have worked to improve the understanding of civil society in WTO activities. It is an advantage to be able to cooperate with non-governmental organisations during the discussions. Their representatives often have a wide network, they are very well informed and have a lot of expertise and much to contribute to WTO matters. Today, there is a great deal of expertise and financial resources in developed countries. Some non-governmental organisations have been very active in providing advice to developing countries. This difference is unfortunate. Countries themselves need to mobilise national expertise and have ownership of their own policies. It is important that NGOs in developing countries are helped to develop trade expertise in the areas they themselves want. We have to face up to the fact that negotiations require a certain degree of confidentiality. Trade concerns commercial interests. Each country has its own right and obligation to keep its own interests to itself. We must remember that it is the authorities of each country who negotiate and who are responsible for the details of the contract. Member States within the WTO must be well informed, but during negotiations will be very sensitive. Therefore, there will have to be restrictions on external transparency. The Christian People's Party agrees that there should be maximum transparency around the negotiations in the WTO, including in the case of negotiations on services, GATS. Information on which countries we have promoted claims to, and in which areas, has been published on the U.D. website. The countries that have made demands on Norway and in which areas have also been published. The Norwegian offer in its entirety in the service negotiations has also been published. The Christian People's Party agrees that one cannot publish all the details in a negotiation process. Neither do other countries. Openness outside is of little use if we're not open also here at home. We need transparency between the Government, non-governmental organisations and the press. There is broad agreement in Norway on the Norwegian positions in the further negotiations. This is because the government has had a close dialogue with the voluntary organisations, blah. LO, NHO, Norway’s Bond Team, Development and Environment Forum, HSH and Consumer Council. This dialogue needs to be continued. Representatives of civil society are also part of the delegation to ministerial meetings. We must therefore take seriously the fact that the voluntary organisations experience a lack of transparency in the process. It doesn't just have to be part of the delegation if one isn't properly informed when one is present. The WTO needs legitimacy in order to develop into an effective and well-functioning organisation, and only national parliaments can guarantee this legitimacy. In the past, many of the negotiations were conducted by bureaucrats and diplomats behind closed doors. Today, the situation is different. It is important to stress that it is the Government that has the constitutional responsibility to negotiate in the WTO, but the Government has information obligations towards the Storting. The themes and areas of negotiation are many and difficult, and it is therefore positive that the Stortinget should be given the opportunity to discuss the issues in advance and that representatives of the magnificence should be invited to participate in official delegations as observers in international negotiations. The size is regularly consulted and informed both in full publicity and in confidentiality. It is therefore not correct when the Senterpartet and SV believe that the information between Stortinget and the Government is defective and is characterised by secrecy. Nor is it right that we are the most closed country in the Nordic region in terms of demands and offers in the ongoing negotiations on GATS. In response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Committee, it is noted that in the other Nordic countries, elected representatives have the same possibility of accessing confidential information as we do in Norway. Openness must be balanced against protecting our negotiating interests. Full publicity in terms of tactical assessment will not be possible, as it could damage our interests in the negotiations. The debate on transparency and more democracy has not been done once and for all. It is a problem we regularly have to address to ensure that everyone is heard, and that we arrive at the best possible negotiated solution for the people concerned. The outcome of the WTO negotiations is very important to us. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government will continue to pursue a good policy in the negotiations that takes into account both important needs in Norway and is in the best interests of developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e514	Let me start with the obvious: the trading system is important. The trade system is particularly important for small countries and for poor countries. The trading system is important because international trade can contribute to cushioning, but it can also contribute to increasing disparities. Trade can help improve the environment, and it can help to destroy the environment. Trade can help raise ethical standards, and it can help reduce ethical standards. That's why it's maritimely important what the trading system looks like at all times. The trading system gradually intervenes in most areas of society, and it will also be the case that a wide range of interest groups will be involved in the issues. Trade policy decisions will often be crucial to key societal developments. Just because this trading system is so important, it is essential that it is perceived as legitimate. In order for the system to be considered legitimate, we need to have maximum open processes, both nationally and within the WTO system. Those who have been following the WTO system for a few years are confident that there has traditionally been a great deal of closeness and processes with which it has been difficult to intervene. We know very well that the criticism of the system has been strong. I can agree with those who have suggested here that there has been some improvement within the system, but it is long before a satisfactory system is in place in the WTO. ‘Green space’ and non-available documents go largely beyond developing countries. The improvement that could be said to have occurred in recent years has had a significant setback at the Geneva meeting in July last year. The backlog was in relation to the processes within the WTO, and it was in relation to how transparency on the Norwegian side has been managed. It was precisely because we saw these setbacks last year that we promoted a Document No. Eight proposals with a number of different individual proposals. The purpose of this was to make sure that we got civil society closer to the processes. The size should be ensured greater involvement, and we should also contribute to increased coordination on the Norwegian side. Our proposals have only received support from SV, minus one of the proposals, which also does not support SV. We think it's funny, because in the process of the development message there was an overall committee that said the following: ‘The Committee will highlight the need for transparency and information on WTO processes, not least in order to give a strong focus to developing and small countries’ needs for stable and fair trade legislation.’ So we see that the majority of people in this room are involved in the celebrations, or, rather, they are all part of the celebrations, related to increased openness in the WTO. But when we get to the stage where we're going to operate this, you don't want to be involved. I have to say that I am particularly amazed at the Christian People's Party, which does not share in supporting these proposals. Traditionally, increased openness in the WTO has been important for the Christian People's Party, but we also need to record in this area that we see a change in the party's attitudes – and not least I think that the voluntary organisations should notice the change that has occurred in the Christian People's Party. It's going to be interesting to see what the Left will do in this case -- a party that traditionally stands on the barricades for transparency. They are not represented in the committee, but it will be all the more interesting to see how they will vote on this matter today. We are disappointed with the lack of willingness to operate what is said in party speeches, but only have to record that that is the case. I refer to the proposal that the Central Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e537	The representative of Åslaug Haga has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e540	The Coastal Party supports the proposals of the SV and the Central Party that we are now debating, to ensure that the processes of WTO negotiations become more open and democratic. The representative, Mr. Haga, said from this interlocutory that they had only received support from SV. That's not exactly true, we also support them. The WTO negotiations are developing in the wrong direction in this area. At the WTO meeting in July 2004, organisations, media, national politicians and protest movements were cut off from taking an active part in the process of key policy decisions. A major problem in the WTO is that groupings of countries and other centres of power have preliminary discussions that put important emphasis on the rest of the negotiation process. Countries not included in these groupings will lose significant influence. Norway must work specifically to ensure that as many countries as possible have the same rights to be heard. Norway must seek to join important groupings which have the same commercial interests as us and which are involved in the real negotiations throughout the process. Being part of the real negotiations throughout the process is very important. Unfortunately, the problems of democracy are not just at WTO level. There is also a great deal to be corrected at national level. Unbelievably, the Norwegian Parliament in the Nordic region is getting the least transparency in the negotiations on the liberalisation of services. In order to prevent Norway from being bound up in negotiations in a way that weakens our national sovereignty, the size of the population has to be reduced on a broad basis. Nor should we be involved in requiring developing countries to waive control of their natural resources or their labour market. As WTO negotiations are increasingly developing from the treatment of trade in goods to the treatment of services and investment, there will be a strong need to have a continuous assessment of the constitutional effects on Norway. Here it's about giving sovereignty, and then the relationship with the Constitution has to be clarified. Without transparency in the national process, Stortinget will have problems intervening where necessary. The coastal party is very sceptical about the liberalisation of the service area which provides a general opening to move cheap labour across borders. Such a mobile international proletariat could effectively undermine the national trade unions and exacerbate pay and working conditions. The coastal party is also very sceptical about the liberalisation of investments that lead to the loss of control of its natural resources and its key businesses by national states. We also need to make sure that it is possible for all countries to maintain and further develop national agriculture. It will be a global democratic problem if the WTO system is given too much power. Norway should therefore actively contribute to the development of alternative and complementary trading systems. That's the most effective way we can keep the WTO in mind. Norway should increasingly contribute to the further development of EFTA from a regional to a global player. The WTO also has its good aspects, which Norway should exploit. As regards access to the market for fish, the WTO system may be used, inter alia: to stop many innocent attacks by the EU against other countries’ fishing exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e559	I think I should be very careful with a few comments on this matter. I have noticed, of course, what I have noticed many times before, namely that there is a clear understanding in the Storting – at least in the vast majority – of the importance of the WTO and how important it is for a small country such as Norway to be part of this part of the international legal order. I think it is very important to stress this, because the alternative to the WTO being successful is that we get a flora of bilateral and regional arrangements that causes small countries like Norway, or countries that are weak, like many developing countries, to fall outside and, of course, will not be able to care for their national interests in the same way as when they work within a large organisation. I think it's important to hold on to the fact that that's the basic attitude so to say throughout the Biggest. Then I'm willing to admit that WTO negotiations and the WTO system are extremely complicated, complicated in part because these are technically complicated rules, but also because getting 147 countries to agree on something in a system where there should in principle be unanimity, of course also very demanding, not least when there is a balance in the result that makes everyone get something. That means, of course, that everyone can't get everything, and that someone has to give something. It is in the nature of the compromise. The easiest thing is to make a decision-making system that makes you never get a solution. And if you never get a solution, it's once again the big ones in the world that are going to win. That is why it is in the interest of small countries that, after all, they have a negotiated system that manages to achieve results and that is not so complicated that these results are not achieved. I think that's reason to stress it, because it's clear that at the end of some negotiations, it's going to be quick enough to reach the compromises. It will not be easy for everyone to join in the turns, but it is also in the nature of the debate that this must be the case. I assume that no one disagrees that this is the situation that you always want to have when negotiating. Now it's from the Government, and especially from my side, a great willingness to open up, and I think the Storting has noticed that there is no lack of willingness to discuss the WTO issues. I think it is absolutely vital that we do that, both in order to understand the impact it has on the Norwegian community, and at the same time to have a clear idea of where the borders go, and what the negotiating mandates should be. Therefore, there must be no doubt that the will for transparency is very much present. It was also true in front of the Geneva meeting, but it is quite right that at the time that the Stortinge split up last summer, not so many thought that a framework for further agricultural negotiations would be reached. Nevertheless, and I would like to remember that, I briefed the bodies of Storting as far as possible at that time, just to have informed as much as possible of what we then knew. The fact that the results were still achieved became known during July, and I don't think there were so many alternatives to dealing with that matter, in relation to what was done. I don't think you're going to exaggerate the problem description. I think one of the reasons that Åslaug Haga has not received greater support for his proposals is simply that there is not such a strong connection to her situation description, which, in my opinion, is also not correct. That's why I think you have to say, yes, this is complicated, and yes, this is going fast at certain times, but at the same time it's a willingness to be as open as possible and give the dilemmas we're facing, as wide a cover as possible. We are now going into new and demanding phases. The myth that there is so much secrecy in the field of duty, I think the representative Rise has put it right. I mean, it doesn't last either. We must, then, be aware in the future that when we reach the final status of some negotiations, there must necessarily be a very fast atmosphere, how many complex things must be solved together. At the same time, there is no alternative for the countries with common interests to talk to those with whom they have common interests and that we also negotiate to some extent on that basis. Norway has enjoyed participating in the G10, and that is something that we naturally want to continue to do. In such a final phase, it is important to know that, of course, the Government and also the representatives of the big business represent the people, while all the organisations inside represent other interests – valuable parts of Norwegian democracy, but it sometimes seems as if things are turning upside down. It must be stressed that, after all, it is the elected bodies that represent the people in such negotiations, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e580	I fully agree with the description, these are very complex negotiations, but there are also very important negotiations for very many countries. It can be seen that there is both fear and concern for rural policy in Norway. It's a dimension that I want to emphasize strongly, and it has to be taken seriously. There is also fear and concern for the interests of developing countries. I want to mention a very hot topic within our neighbouring countries, which are members of the EU. We are not right now, but Norway is also asked to focus on the negotiations that are taking place between the EU and, among other things, Norway. African countries on Economic Partnership Agreements, also known as EPAs, where there is great doubt that these negotiations will serve the regionalisation that is taking place in Africa, as the Foreign Minister spoke very positively today in his statement. It is true that even the Fund has raised criticisms and doubts about the way these negotiations are conducted, and whether they will serve the cooperation that is developing in Africa. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have any comments on these negotiations, and is it the view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is now appropriate that the interests of developing countries be properly safeguarded in the WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e589	I am not quite sure whether the question now being asked is really a WTO question. The whole point of WTO rules is to get as open a world trade as possible, where everyone has the opportunity to participate. What is the backward position is that groups of countries make agreements with each other. That's the last, as far as I could understand, which was the very question, and here I'm going to be very clear that I haven't looked at the content of the negotiating picture that is between the EU and the countries that the representative Eyeågen now mentioned. I am therefore cut off from being able to give some assessments of what this negotiating image now looks like, but in principle I believe that it is important that WTO rules are as global as possible, so that they are the ones that meet the needs of countries. I remember that we are also negotiating ourselves with African countries, as we are doing in the EFTA community now in relation to southern Africa. This is something you have to do within the system, but it shouldn't be what's dominating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e594	Today, we have largely discussed openness in connection with processes. One can also discuss openness in the context of participation, and just a little tip to the Government: I thought that both the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Fisheries should be more involved at least when we have WTO negotiations. But my question is about openness around the results. We all know from politics that one can achieve results, but it is very important that they are implemented. For example, one thing is: the presence of a sensitive product within agriculture. The WTO is very important for many countries, not least Norway, when it comes to opportunities for protection. And when it applies, for example. such a major issue as date fixing, possible date fixing of when to start the reduction in export subsidies, how does the Minister of Foreign Affairs perceive the WTO's ability to actually inform both of the results and of their effectiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e599	What is now the challenge is simply to achieve these results, that is, to get the enormously important elements that Jacobsen mentioned, into place within the framework agreed in Geneva this summer. We're not close to having those results, but that's the phase you're now going into. Of course, with regard to the WTO's ability and willingness to follow-up, it is the dispute resolution mechanisms contained in the legislation. It is not an unknown matter that in the case of anti-dumping, for example, Norway wants to tighten the legislation itself so that it is better adapted to the needs we have. But the first assumption is to get to a result. Then I think that following them up and putting them into practice – and I fully agree that it will be extremely important once you have agreed on something – will be absolutely possible to do within the system, and where there is doubt, we will then make sure that the rules are tightened.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e606	The negotiations with the European Union now take place, among others: the African countries are, of course, in order to make existing trade agreements WTO-relevant, and if I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly, Norway is in the same process through EFTA. The Foreign Minister did not answer the question of the position of developing countries. But there is a significant development in these negotiations, and from a well-informed team in the Ministry of Agriculture it is suggested that a result and a final agreement can come in during the summer. I would like to have a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e613	It is, as you know, scheduled for a Hong Kong ministerial meeting at the end of 2005, and it is important to have as much substance as possible clarified. Here we will have a gradual advance during the year, but it may well be that the main Council meeting itself this summer will be quite important in this way. So I think that after having had a rather modest progress during the fall last year and the time just after Christmas, we now come into a phase with a significantly higher pace. I myself had the pleasure of attending the informal ministerial meeting held in Davos at the end of January in connection with the World Economic Forum, where there was probably a strong sense that now it began to rush; it began to be short-lived. It will be filled up, I think, also with some other ministerial meetings, informal ministerial meetings well to note, where not everyone is invited to attend, but where we have now received an invitation from the Kenyan Minister of Trade to attend. That means that we will probably participate closer to the core of the negotiations now than we have done in previous years, and I think that is very welcome. But I think it's important now just to keep a full eye on the issues we're facing, not least the question of completing the agricultural unity achieved in Geneva last year. With regard to the position of developing countries, let it be clear that the interests of developing countries are very many and diverse, and what we are now seeing is that the different developing countries have different interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e620	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e638	This annual report by the Stortinges Delegation to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation at the 2003 European Parliamentary Assembly highlights the importance of the work carried out by the organisation. In a conflict-affected world, there is a great need for an organisation to observe elections in different countries and point out any violations of elementary democratic rights. Although the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, established in 1991, has only an advisory function in relation to the OSCE Council of Ministers, the organisation has a major role to play in preventing and resolving conflicts and in supporting the development of democratic institutions in the Member States. Countries outside the OSCE are also aware of the organisation’s activities, and it is important for the decisions of different countries in the areas covered by the organisation. The OSCE plays an active role in election observation in the new democracies of Central and Eastern Europe, not least in the former Soviet Union and in the Balkans. The choice in Ukraine was a good example of the importance of the organisation. The resolutions adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly in annual sessions, meetings and conferences contribute to raising awareness in key areas of the development of new democracies, the protection of national minorities and the fight against smuggling and human exploitation. I believe that the OSCE will continue to play a major role in areas such as the treatment of prisoners, the fight against anti-Semitism, peacekeeping, detachment, democratic elections and work on further European integration. Looking at the news, one will be reminded on a daily basis that it is a long way to go before we have peace in the world, and therefore it is important to have a body that can act as a watchdog to what is happening, and to help the various countries in conflict to intensify their efforts to achieve peace and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e655	Europe with its 47 states and more than 800 million inhabitants is changing dramatically. Political systems, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe, have undergone enormous changes in just a few years. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has played an important role here. Norway's participation in the OSCE is therefore of great importance, and we are pleased that the Government attaches great importance to both the OSCE and the Council of Europe in their efforts to democratise and promote human rights in Europe. It also applies to the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR, and to cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during the election observations. This is a very important work. The two organisations have a large share of the credit that democracy and human rights are attaching their grip to a growing number of countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The choice in Ukraine is a good example. A country with 50 million inhabitants has started the process of implementing European standards. It is a great victory for democratic forces and for the OSCE. Hopefully, what has happened in Ukraine will be a powerful inspiration for what might be of democratic forces in White Russia. The situation here has seemed to be stuck, and it is hoped that the work to influence Belarus in the right direction can intensify and shoot speed. There is also much to be done to achieve European standards on human rights both in the Caucasus and in the Balkans, as well as the situation in Moldova, Transistria and Chechnya. The transition from one party system and Communist-led police states to democratic states with transparency and legal certainty is not easy. Organised crime has been greatly boosted both in the Balkans and in Central and Eastern Europe. Here, the OSCE has played an important role, especially in terms of trafficking, trafficking in human beings, which is the slave trade of our time. It also concerns Norway, and not least Oslo, to a large extent. Trafficking in human beings is considered to be the third largest form of illegal economic activity in the world. It is a billion-dollar industry that is only dominated by trafficking in illicit weapons and drugs. Some experts claim that trafficking in human beings is in the process of bypassing drug trafficking and becoming the main illegal activity. Drug trafficking is at high risk; there is a high intensity in the fight against this trade, both in the police and in customs. It is therefore positive that the OSCE has so strongly placed trafficking on the political agenda. It is hoped that this activity may be at least as risky for the criminal networks as drug trafficking is. We also agree with the initiatives now taken to reform and streamline the OSCE, and we are pleased that former Minister of Foreign Affairs and OSCE leader Knut Vollebæk will take part in the panel to carry out the work, which must also include the organisation of the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e689	I ask for the word because I was away when this setting was released. I just want to refer, in addition to referring to what's written here, to our comments in the Inst. S. No 277 for 2003-2004 by the Foreign Affairs Committee on cooperation in NATO in 2003. If it helps the president, I was visiting the Norwegian ISAF team in Kabul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e698	It's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e701	The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is a forum for international parliamentary dialogue on a number of issues of a political, security and economic nature. Here, ideas and views are exchanged, giving greater predictability and better insight and contributing to a common understanding of the security problems we face. The Assembly of Parliamentarians also gives NATO an indication of what collective parliamentary opinion is and contributes to more transparency in NATO's policy. The security image has changed, and NATO is going through a transformation. NATO no longer has a main enemy. Member States face a number of more comprehensive and undefined threats. During 2003, we saw major changes within NATO, with regard to its own military organisation, new operations and cooperation with other organisations. NATO must continue this development. The alliance needs to become more relevant, more flexible and better adapted to today's challenges. NATO must be prepared to support international society's efforts to prevent crises and conflicts, when they occur and where they occur, to prevent conflicts from spreading and to resolve conflicts with political rather than military instruments. The changed security policy situation also makes the role of parliamentarians more challenging. Armed forces have been given new roles and tasks, defence needs extensive reform and restructuring, and there has been a huge revolution in technology and the media. With all these changes, we need a greater parliamentary commitment. Once candidate countries and partner countries have also committed themselves to democratic control over their own armed forces, it shows a greater focus on parliamentary practice. The NATO Member States agree that we are seeing an increasing threat from international terrorists and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The new threats challenge established structures and established thinking, and countries have not always agreed on how to address this threat. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that military funds are only one of several instruments. An important measure is to achieve universal agreement to the Non-Proliferation Agreement and to press countries to sign international agreements on arms control, disarmament and the cessation of nuclear weapons. Here, in cooperation with the United Nations, NATO must strengthen its efforts. The action plan for non-proliferation and disarmament must be followed. It is very alarming that North Korea is now reporting that they have produced nuclear weapons for self-defence and that they are withdrawing from the six-country cooperation on the North Korean nuclear programme. It is also worrying to read in Dagbladet of February 11 that the United States is working on a new generation of nuclear weapons, and that Congress granted money for this in November. The Christian People's Party believes that NATO should have its own plan for how to achieve the goal of eliminating nuclear weapons. With major changes, both security policy and within the alliance, it is natural that one will encounter difficult issues. The most difficult issue for NATO in 2003 was the Iraq war and disagreement between the United States and some central European countries. It gave a split in NATO, and the relationship between the allies and the trust in NATO was put on a serious test. We have to solve this disagreement, because it's hard to see real alternatives to NATO. Cooperation within NATO has improved since 2003. As the US Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice recently said when she visited Germany and France, there may be disagreements between friends, but these have to be resolved by dialogue. In Bush’s ‘State of the Union’ speech, he also made it clear that it is a central goal to rebuild relations with Europe. The Foreign Minister of France is also now very much talking about a new phase in the transatlantic relationship. We may still have to live with different strategic considerations within the alliance, and we should not underestimate the difficulties with this. But that is what we need to try to solve through dialogue and consultation, so that we can avoid such eating as the one we received in 2003. President Bush will be at the NATO Summit on 22 February, where the new will for dialogue and concrete cooperation can be put to the test, among others. as regards the forces of Iraq and Iran’s nuclear programme. The division of roles between the EU and NATO is under way. It is alarming for Norway that Germany’s head of government, Gerhard Schröder, believes that NATO must have a subordinate role in the relationship between Europe and the United States. There is pressure on Norway if several key questions are moved out of NATO, where we are a member, to the EU, where we are outside. The EU is likely to play a more prominent role in European and international security. EU security and defence policy has been strengthened in recent years, both at institutional and practical level. Although the main inconsistencies within the EU regarding the development of the ESDP have been resolved, the EU has no common defence policy and also lacks important military capabilities. It is necessary that cooperation between NATO and the EU continues to be open and constructive, and that a focus is on coordination. It is essential that the two organisations do not develop competing structures. We offer Norwegian contributions to the EU effort force to strengthen security and defence cooperation in Europe. There is no doubt that NATO is the main organisation for the protection of Norwegian and international security, but we are contributing when the EU now takes greater responsibility for security within and outside Europe. In 2003, it was decided that the alliance should be extended to seven new Member States. This enlargement is important for stability in Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly developed early close ties with political leaders in the new democratic states, which made dialogue with NATO easier at a later stage. Dialogue with Russia and Ukrainian political leaders is also very important in building trust and cooperation in Europe. NATO must be involved in stabilising weak countries. If the alliance does not do so, large regions can end up under the threat of international crime, corruption and terrorism. Our NATO ambassador Eide recently highlighted this in an interview with the Defence Network. He points in particular to what is happening in Afghanistan, and believes that the country can end up as a permanent haven for terror and crime if the international community withdraws. Our attention is focused on Iraq, but there are still major unsolved tasks in Afghanistan. I am pleased that our Norwegian forces are impressive in Afghanistan, and that we are helping to support the stability and development work in that country. Within the overall framework set by the UN, NATO is the cornerstone of Norway’s security policy. We must therefore continue to play a solid and important role in NATO. Norway must be able to contribute actively so that NATO can carry out its tasks effectively and crediblely. Only as an active participant in the international community can we find a common way to a fair and lasting peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e731	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e747	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e750	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e757	Steinar Bastesen, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e760	Thank you, President! I guess I'll be the only speaker in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e765	The president's counting on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e768	The Coastal Party supports the development of free trade agreements between EFTA and countries worldwide. We therefore also support the current free trade agreement between EFTA and Lebanon. But we believe that the EFTA system should be both an alternative and a useful complement to the World Trade Organisation. Therefore, we consider it necessary to clarify that there are elements in the present agreement that should be followed with vigilance. Article 25 on services obliges the parties to work towards the gradual liberalisation and reciprocal opening of their markets for trade in services in accordance with the GATS. As long as the GATS negotiation process is currently quite short, this provision of the Free Trade Agreement with Lebanon is a limited problem. However, if the GATS negotiations were to lead to excessive liberalisation, this could easily lead to free trade agreements. The Coastal Party appears that such general links between the EFTA Agreements and the WTO are unfortunate. In line with this, Norway should reserve the right to propose amendments to the EFTA agreements if at a later stage it would prove necessary to prevent excessive liberalisation in the trade in services. It is also necessary to ensure that no investment legislation is developed which makes it difficult to ensure national control of natural resources and key enterprises. The EFTA agricultural agreements should also be followed closely so that they do not harm Norwegian agriculture. The Coastal Party believes that the Stortinget should discuss a new strategy for the development of the EFTA system. We believe that the EFTA agreements are too much adapted to developments in the agreements between the EU and third countries and developments in the WTO. We should explore the many alternative options that Norway has through EFTA to develop trade relations that do not undermine our national independence. This work should, of course, be done in close cooperation with Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e801	A much stronger focus is needed on the north. The Norwegian sea area is of Mediterranean size and is one of the world's most productive. It has considerable energy resources and will become an increasingly important transport year. The revenue from the sea areas is a base of the Norwegian economy. Our future depends on how much we can still manage these enormous values, how they are exploited, and on international conditions. Norway therefore needs a long-term strategy for the north to ensure in the short and long term the rights and manage the responsibilities associated with the sea. The military threat scene in the north has changed. However, Norway has a significant responsibility for ensuring stability and security in its own region. The consolidation and continuation of the international treaties and efficient resource management are important tasks with major economic and foreign policy implications. The values in the marine areas make it impossible for us to ignore the fact that we can be subjected to political pressure. A resource conflict can easily cause political undertones and increase the pressure on our rights. We must therefore maintain a credible defence as a signal to the outside world about where our interest and priority lies and as a guarantee that we take our commitments seriously. It is still an important task to control resources in the northern seas. The fact that several states disagree with our view of the division of sea areas makes the task more demanding. The basis for Norwegian jurisdiction in Svalbard's economic zone is disputed. Russia has challenged Norway’s jurisdiction by sending a marine vessel into the protection zone. Iceland has threatened to bring the issue of Norway's rights in the Svalbard zone before the Court of Justice in The Hague. In addition, unresolved issues related to the sharing line with Russia. The central party believes that the only way we can continue today's regime is to manage the areas in such a way that the fishing storms and the United States see their interests best served by the fact that it is Norway and not others who are in charge of the administration. Coast Guard Chief Geir Osen said it like this: ‘In addition, Norway is one of Europe’s richest nations, and we should not expect all the world’s sympathy for our demands for rights. Our most important card, however, is a proper discharge of our international obligations, and it requires ample presence with ample competence and material from the defence side." The centre lot shares that assessment. It is in the interests of the powers that developments take place in a way that reduces the risk of conflict. By clearly formulating Norwegian interests and by demonstrating through action that we will take care of them, we will help to prevent what Johan Jørgen Holst called ‘exciting ambiguities’ from escalating. Our diplomacy must have the aim of reducing the possibility of rivalry and economic competition, so that this does not adversely affect our territory. We must seek to avoid bindings to one of the major environmental acts that lead to unacceptable exposure to the reactions of others and third parties. We need a defence and security policy where the presence in the north areas is given priority over today, both in terms of land, air and maritime military presence. This must be combined with consistent enforcement of Norwegian non-discrimination-based jurisdiction. The Central Party therefore considers that the allocation of the Coast Guard should be increased in order to increase the patrol day of seagoing vessels. We want to continue HAUK-class MTBs, so that these can be used out of the technical lifetime they have. Maritime defence must be given sufficient appropriations so that it is not appropriate to add vessels to berths and exercise activities in North Norway must be increased. The country- and air-military defence activity in North Norway must generally be maintained. The extraction of rich natural resources in the vulnerable northern regions and increased exports of oil along the Norwegian coast create a need for increased environmental monitoring and resource control. The route of oil transport should be extended from the coast – environmental organisations have pointed out that it should extend to 30 nautical miles. Another challenge is the annual cod-fishing at a value of DKK 1 billion. It is theft and environmental crime that undermines the sustainable management of fisheries resources. At the same time as this is happening, the Coast Guard is too much at berth. This is waste of resources. The Northern Region Committee stresses that we have a great deal of common interest with Russia in the Barents Sea. Russia and Norway are the two largest petroleum exporters outside OPEC, and we are both outside the EU. Norway is also a major fish exporter. Russian side expressed a desire for closer cooperation, including: due to Norway's relationship with European and American markets. Closer cooperation with Russia in the north is definitely opening up interesting opportunities. The Nordic Region Committee recommends the development of a binding bilateral and comprehensive agreement for all activities in the Barn Sea area to ensure the environment and economic development. Such an agreement should include common quality objectives and minimum standards for all activities in the area and common environmental status indicators. By adding heavy resources to the agreement, countries will be able to jointly address the major challenges of the Barents Sea. Cooperation must be based on existing bilateral cooperation in fisheries management, maritime safety and the environment. We have a good model of cooperation precisely in the Norwegian-Russian fisheries cooperation and through the fisheries negotiations. A possible prospect in the long term will be to assess whether such an agreement could be extended to become an international agreement for the whole of the Arctic, including, inter alia, the Baltic Sea. the Arctic countries as actors. Norway should take initiatives towards Russia in order to develop such an agreement. It is also appropriate to consider whether the nuclear safety work should be included in this works of agreement. Through the Barents Secretariat, Norway has developed a broad and public contact area with Russia. People involved in people's cooperation have been very important in building trust between countries. It is regrettable that the appropriations for this work are still being reduced, and there will be a significant impact. Barrier cooperation should be strengthened rather than reduced, as should the efforts of the Arctic Council. One of the prerequisites for effective cooperation between Norway and Russia is also the existence of vital industrial activities and infrastructure on the Norwegian side of the border. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has stated that we are subsidising North Norway by NOK 16 billion a year. Honestly! North Norway is not a poor outpost to be maintained through ad hoc crisis measures. North Norway needs to be further developed on the basis of the competences of the national community and on the basis of the rich natural resources. An offensive north district policy based on North Norway's own resources is important in a long-term strategy to safeguard our interests. It is precisely from this point of view that not least the current fisheries policy is totally destructive. Here small communities are being tapped for jobs, and we are losing the link we are going to have between a wise management of fishing resources and settlement. – Time goes fast here, so I get to take a faster one than I had thought! The challenge is that the fisheries policy is in a special position to ensure industrial development in North Norway. There is a need for a completely different approach to the fisheries policy in order for us to be able to secure the settlement. The economic development of the region is also, of course, much more important than that. I just mentioned one key chord, tourism, which should have a formidable potential if we had been willing to facilitate it. My point is that an active and robust district policy with an active industrial policy at the bottom is crucial in a long-term strategy to safeguard our interests in the northern regions. The northern regions are too important to go for lye and cold water. A comprehensive strategy is needed. It's urgent! Let me just point out to the very end what should be the main elements, from the point of view of the Centre Party, in a Norwegian north-eastern policy: military presence as a credible marker of Norwegian sovereignty and an emphasis on Norway’s commitment to defending the rights and vital interests we have in the northern regions consistent and firm enforcement of both national provisions and international regulatory and sustainable management strategy, which demonstrates that Norway is a worthy manager of the resources that the international community has given us over a robust business and district policy to create business and secure housing, including: as part of a long-term sovereignty marking targeted alliance construction both in terms of sustainable management of fisheries resources and an energy recovery taking into account the vulnerability of monitoring, preparedness and navigational leaders of the marine environment, adapted to the increased oil activity and oil transport along the Norwegian coast; This could, in sum, be the starting point for a wise and long-term strategy in relation to the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e865	I would like to comment on the interpellation itself with the following: I fully share the assessment of the significance and, if I am also allowed to say so, the possibilities that the northern regions have, as shown by this interpellation. And after hearing the review of the issues that the interpellant has solved, I would like to say that these are both important and well-known issues. That means that when the Government comes up with its Northern Territory Communication during this spring session, I think that the representative Haga will feel fairly good again when it comes to important issues. I also reviewed some of these issues in the statement I made immediately before this interpellation that we have to deal with here today. However, Åslaug Haga used a quote that I perceived was attached to me, and in which I do not quite know myself, but that I expect is a parentheses in this context. That's not the main point. The main point is the possibilities offered by this region. As I said, the government will come back with a north-eastern communication, where such and some other issues will be discussed together, so that this will only be a preliminary review. At the same time, I would like to stress – we have the same starting point – that the expert committee that I set up in 2003 has identified the challenges and opportunities facing Norway. I think we have to look in the eye that the situation in the northern regions is different from that of the cold war. At that time, security policy issues were very dominant, and the attention of allies in the north was focused on and focused very clearly on security policy issues. Today, some other issues are central to them. I think it is very important for Norway to work actively to draw the interests of other countries to the north. We see this clearly updated by the great work that is now being done to clean up nuclear pollution in the north. This is not just a question that Norway is interested in, but we now have a very significant commitment from the G8 countries. This means that there is now progress in the work on environmental clean-up in the north. I think it underlines very strongly that this is much more than a bilateral question. These are issues that too many countries are important and of considerable interest. The environmental clean-up in the north itself has both an environmental dimension and, as we have seen from previous statements, a non-proliferation side, which I think is quite important for us to be aware of. That's one of the reasoning in the interpellation that I want to nuance a little bit, because it might quickly be misunderstood. I think it is very important to stress that the rights that Norway has in the northern areas are, of course, the result of international law and legal status, and not of the apparatus we have to enforce this. It probably hasn't been meant that way either, but I think it's very important to stress that we have our rights, of course, according to the international legal order that applies here. Otherwise, the review of the Communication will largely focus on such important challenges as how we organise ourselves in the North. This concerns Barents' cooperation, the relationship with the EU, the issue of Arctic Council, and not least the issue of the natural resources of the northern regions. I mentioned in my presentation earlier today the issue of dealing with the demarcation issue in the Barents Sea. Difficult issues remain. It would be very good if we could achieve a solution in the near future, but it is more important to get a good solution than it is to get a quick solution. But in any case, there will be great opportunities for Norwegian industry in the northern regions, given that both Norway and Russia provide them with these opportunities. Clearly, business-related issues will be increasingly important. I would like to stress that it is this part of the cooperation in the northern regions that we are not fully satisfied with. This is probably due not least to the setback in the Russian economy in 1998. Progress has been made in the future, but I think it is very important to stress to the Russian authorities that having a predictable framework for investment in trade is essential for this field to develop positively and correctly, so that we can realise the potential that lies up there. I agree with Mr Haga that the environmental issues associated with the management of the sea and the risk of pollution from significant quantities of oil transport are of the utmost importance. These are questions that the Government has previously addressed, but where it is important to continue addressing this issue. I expect that this message will be presented so that the Storting will have time to address the realities that will be dealt with, and with the list of issues that Åslaug Haga mentioned, I think that we should be able to say that there is a reasonable consensus on what should be given priority in our North Sea policy. The challenge is to see things in context. There are important things that are already in place, but I think this opportunity to give an overall assessment of it is a necessary and a good opportunity for a deepened debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e886	I thank the Foreign Minister for his comments, which I choose to call it. In the interpellation, the question was which strategies government will base itself on in its north-eastern policy. I guess we didn't get that much answer, and that's why I want to challenge the Foreign Minister on a couple of points. Firstly, where the North Region Committee is very clear, and is committed to developing a binding bilateral and comprehensive agreement on all activities in the Barn Sea area with Russia to ensure the environment and economic development. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs very specifically whether it is a proposal which the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers appropriate and whether it will come as a proposal in the communication that I understand will come to the Stortinget in ours. It might have been interesting to know more precisely when you expect the message to come to the Stortinget. The second thing I want to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs is related to what's going on in district policy and industrial development, in the sense of industrial development in North Norway. We're going to have to deal with increased trade across borders, but now I'm more concerned about how he looks at district policy, business policy, in North Norway as a tool for us to state our sovereignty on the Norwegian side. There is no doubt that North Norway as a part of the country, especially Finnmark, is struggling, mainly because of an unsustainable fisheries policy, but also because there is an industrial policy that does not take sufficient account of the opportunities that exist, and that we do not use the possibilities that we have to draw on the skills that exist in the region and link it with the capital that this country knows to have. In addition to the issue of the overall and bilateral agreement with Russia, I would also challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say something about the government's thinking on district policy as an instrument in relation to sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e899	With regard to the framework of the Northern Region policy that I am going to present in my communication, it will not deal with purely national issues, i.e. issues where other ministers have their competence. Consequently, Norwegian national district policies are not of the things that will be here. There is a responsibility on the part of the municipal minister, and the Stortinget has discussed this on many occasions. What has to be the perspective is what goes across borders, and relates to other countries. That will be the focus itself. However, Åslaug Haga asks a question that touches on this, namely the question of how this is in relation to our sovereignty. Then I really want to warn, because it's not like Norwegian sovereignty over any part of the Norwegian land area gets bigger or less depending on what we do or don't do in these areas. Norwegian territory is Norwegian territory. We have our rights to international law. No one can take that away from us. I think that's a very crucial premise for what we're trying to do. As this is defined from Åslaug Hagas' side, I think it's going to be defensive. Norwegian territory is Norwegian – and done with it! With regard to the issue of the binding contract, there is more to the question of the instrument than of substance. We have a number of commitments with regard to the Russians. Something's going well, and something's not going well. We have a number of problems in the fisheries sector that we are still discussing with the Russians. There are well-known issues. The question raised here, about the grip on an overall agreement or more agreements, is probably more a technical question than a strategy question. I think it's very important that you solve the issues as they appear. I think we need to be aware that new issues will still arise. A crucial issue is probably just the divide-line negotiations, which I have mentioned earlier. It's something that's taken a lot of time for us, and that we've been doing for a long time. But we also have to be prepared that they will be able to take some more time. I do not see any reason why other and more urgent questions should be raised in the determination of such important elements in the total contract work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e908	During the cold war, the northern regions were among the most strategic on the globe. Large parts of the Soviet Union's nuclear impact force were located on the Kola Peninsula. Norway's border with the Soviet Union and Kola made us a very important ally in NATO. This is now history. Russia has gone from being an opponent to being a co-player. Today, the country plays a central role in the formulation of the Euroatlantic security policy. The global military strategic importance of the northern regions has therefore been greatly reduced. However, there are several reasons why the northern regions remain strategically important areas for Russia, Norway and other international actors. I have to say that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he believes that the interpellant gave a somewhat narrow perspective, and in my opinion, she has given too little attention to the international, that is to say the global, dimension of the challenges we face in the northern regions. The northern regions are still a military centre of gravity internationally. Russia continues to have significant military capabilities in the Kola Peninsula. A large part of Russia's strategic nuclear weapons are still on the Kola, and radioactive and fissile material on the Kola can be diverted and, in the worst case, used by terrorists. The northern regions probably contain a quarter of the world's undiscovered petroleum resources. One of the world's largest gas fields is located in the Russian part of the Barents Sea. Russia is the world’s largest oil and gas producer and is a reliable exporter in the international market. US and Russian authorities agree that 15-20 pst. imports of crude oil from the United States shall come from Russia. The United States has also made it clear that they want large Russian deliveries of liquefied natural gas. This significant American interest in Russian energy supplies will also increase the military strategic interest in the North. The northern regions are the source of major environmental threats. The accumulation of nuclear waste in North-West Russia is an environmental problem and a possible dispersal problem. The world's largest concentration of nuclear reactors makes the area a global nuclear safety problem of significant dimensions. Arctic areas are particularly vulnerable to radioactive pollution, and the consequences of emissions and accidents can therefore be considerable. As we rely on confidence in the markets for Norwegian fish and seafood, the fear of radioactive contamination is itself a risk to Norway. An unwarranted reputation in the markets will be sufficient to cause serious losses to Norwegian fishing industries. The prospects for increasing exploration and production of oil and gas will also present new challenges. Oil transport from North-West Russia to the United States will go by ship along the Norwegian coast. The same will apply to large parts of environmental transport. It is therefore clear that we need a new north-eastern strategy. The right considers that Norway needs to take a leadership to ensure that our interests are safeguarded, by establishing international cooperation with Russia, both through the channels we have in Barents' cooperation, with the United States and also with the EU, regardless of membership or not. But if you want a larger community of interests with Europe, membership is the most important step to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e925	Interpellation travels a very important theme, which unfortunately does not always receive the attention it needs and deserves. Hopefully it has become a recognition that we cannot fail to give priority to the work on the challenges of the northern regions, and in the context of fisheries and energy, development in the north is of paramount importance. The challenge for our foreign service and Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether we as a nation are well-equipped to do the diplomatic work that needs to be done continuously to safeguard our interests in the north. How much attention do we pay to these issues in Washington, Moscow, Berlin, Brussels, Ottawa, etc.? Do we have allies in the north, or are we in an eternal squabble? Are we training people in Norway who have the necessary international law competences at the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Svalbard Treaty? What is the strategy of our diplomats? These are just some questions it would be interesting to clarify. As northern areas are increasingly used in relation to oil and energy extraction, there are a number of unresolved issues that characterise the situation in the north. For example, we do not have a clear border between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea, there is no general agreement on Svalbard's continental shelf and economic protection zone around the island group, there is no agreement on Canada's, Russia's and Greenland's or Denmark's demands on continental shelf in the Arctic – Denmark has claimed the North Pole – nor is it clear what political status Greenland wants. These are some of the challenges that we will face in the future and that we must actively deal with. The end of the Cold War in 1990 also reduced military activity in the Arctic. However, little is said about the future strategic importance of the same areas. Rather, this will increase and become more complex as geopolitical developments take place on land in Europe and in Eurasia. Increased resource-driven industrial and commercial use of the polar regions will also increase their strategic value, the more so as this will be an area for the production of strategic goods such as energy and minerals. The Arctic shoreline can become a vital sealeader for the entire North Hemisphere’s trade and production. In other words, how existing agreements are to be understood and with what concrete consequences in the Arctic will be the subject of extensive diplomacy in the years to come. Interests, location and military, diplomatic, economic and political ability will give this diplomacy its structure. Norway will be in a special position, limited in weight despite it. Both mainland and Svalbard will as a land area be of central importance to all activities in the intermediate and adjacent sea areas, and the Norwegian sea domain is the main port of the Arctic Ocean. If there is disagreement about rights, this is undisputed Norwegian jurisdictional area and Norwegian sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e943	This is a commendable interpellation, while there will be a little debate before the debate, because now we get the message. It's supposed to come as it's promised here. I'll just say a little bit about the short-term strategies, which I also want the Foreign Minister to comment a little bit, while the Central Party's most well-known long-term strategy in this matter is actually opening up the Barents Sea to oil drilling. Leave it alone, but it's the last and most familiar strategy of the Center Party. From Christmas onward, it was reported that the weather forecast at Bjørnøya/Hopen would be closed. This resulted in a huge breed of fishers, and a luck for the station. It shows what an enormous commitment it is along the coast of the North Region policy. I also think we should be in good dialogue with these groups, on both sides of the border. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to this: how does the double hull work go in relation to the IMO? Is there any development there? Does the government do anything in that context? Is there any good development on the coastguard side? And what is the status of tug capacity in the north? But perhaps the most important thing is about the Government now, just before the message is presented, they feel that they are in good operation with all the organizations, environmental movements, Russian organisations and others that we have to join in the team to get the best possible treatment of the North Sea messages here in Stortinget. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs realize that an already intervened, in debate and in dialogue with all groups needed to get the best possible message for the seventh and last?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e954	Most of the points that Åslaug Haga drew up are natural headlines of the message and the debate that the Storting should have. A comment on a small discussion between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Åslaug Haga on purely national issues is part of the Northern Region policy: To say that, of course, is a robust economy and a robust settlement in the region, in North Norway, an important part of a strategy to have a solid Northern Region policy. There is something different in itself than that this should be part of a big message about the Northern Region policy. This is a natural part of Norwegian north-eastern politics, but it has not been said that this is a central part of a big business message. That's what we'll see when the government presents it. It is possible to distinguish between these things. The perspective of the cold war and the new situation that many have in it is of course important. What is already apparent as interesting and important in the debate on north-eastern issues is that, for once, the debate is quite obscure about Norwegian interests. I think it is very important to assume that although cold war has been replaced by cooperation, there is a complex cooperation for Norway, because one of the perspectives must be that Norway should be involved in cooperation on the North Sea issues. The second is that in the new situation, it's not like one or two allies have emerged, and the rest are opponents. Here Norway will have complex relations with a number of countries around Europe and other continents, so here it is a question of establishing international cooperation and still avoiding too extensive bilateralisation of the relationship in the north, partly because the area is of global interest, but also because our position may be weak in relation to both large neighbours and other major actors. So it's important to establish international cooperation where the Norwegian voice is heard. With that, I have also underlined that the bilateralisation of the relationship in the north, with Russia, can have a lot to do in some areas, but the old and well-established attitude that this is an area so large and so important that we need further cooperation, a wider platform to stand on, it still owes. In addition to this, we will return to most of the individual questions related to the message. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also drew up a number of points already in the drafting, but these points at least seemed natural to us to include in the debate on the North Sea issues, to which we come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e963	In northern areas, there are political, economic and environmental opportunities for Norway. These areas are rich in natural resources. The fishing demise of the Barents Sea has long been the basis for the export of national importance. Norway shall be the world leader in environmental quality and standards. Then we must ensure that the eco-regions and habitats in the northern regions are maintained intact and intact. The fish is an eternal resource that will contribute to the creation of value in new centuries, if we manage it properly. The economic importance of the fishing industry is high while representing key national and international natural resources that Norway has a co-responsibility to manage in the best possible way. Under the seabed, large values have been detected that we are now in the initial phase to extract. The expansion of the Snow White field has created optimism in Finland and elsewhere in the region, and oil companies regard the north as an exciting petroleum province. The work on extracting the reserves of oil and gas on the Russian side is also in the start-up phase. This presents us with a number of challenges, primarily in the environmental field of transport of oil and gas, but also in the field of safety related to the operation of the planned fields. The sharp increase in coastal oil transport is of concern. A possible future transport of radioactive material will also pose a threat to the environment. Norway must be prepared, alerted and monitoring procedures proportionate to these threats. We need to cooperate with the Russian authorities to prevent disasters. The Ministry of Fisheries is currently cooperating with Russia on maritime safety and oil protection. The aim is to establish a common system of notification and information which will provide a mutual overview on the Russian and Norwegian sides of oil transport in the Barents Sea and along the Norwegian coast. The environmental threat also updates efforts to promote internationally that countries should be responsible for pollution across national borders and that the polluter-pays principle must be applied not only to persons and companies but also to countries. Of the four Nordic countries, Norway has at least trade with Russia. The Russian market is growing, which should be of interest to Norwegian product producers. In particular, nutrient development in the Barents region could provide a basis for economic growth in North-West Russia. Trade is important if the Russian territories are to get out of poverty. In the long term, it will be able to balance the differences in living standards between Norway and Russia. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of connecting civil society in the two countries together. People to the people-cooperation have been very successful in connecting and creating a cultural understanding. The fight against tuberculosis and the spread of HIV/AIDS are also central. Norway needs to further develop cooperation with Russia, and the Christian People's Party is looking forward to discussing the challenges and opportunities we face in the northern regions, in a comprehensive way when the communication is presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e979	It is positive that north-eastern politics is the basis for debate in Stortinget. It is an area of great strategic importance, which is the subject of ever-increasing interest, not only nationally but also globally, not least because of the large resources available to this area in relation to marine resources, where we have one of the few species of fish in the world that are in a reasonably good constitution, but also in relation to the assumption that some of the world's largest remaining oil and gas resources are located in this area, if you see the Russian, Norwegian and Alaska areas in the north as a whole. It suggests that in the years to come, the north will be the subject of ever-increasing focus. It also suggests that this should be one of the most interesting areas of Norwegian foreign policy to focus on. It may seem strange — and for some people it seems to be at the forefront — with such an approach to north-eastern policy, but I think over time, the great resources are just going to make sure you do this. We have a number of unexplained conditions in the north, and a number of conditions that are still at issue: the dividing line, the grey zone and the fishing protection zone around Jan Mayen, which from time to time are the subject of conflicts and debates. All of this calls for greater attention from Norway around this area, greater foreign policy attention, and not least, in my view, requires a far greater presence in this area than we have so far been able to achieve. In particular, it is problematic that due to the budgetary situation, the Coast Guard is unable to obtain sufficient presence in the north. At a time when most of the defence policy is targeting other areas in the world, and more conflict-affected areas in the world, it may seem to be a reasonable re-priority to have the defence policy focus concentrated on other areas. However, I am convinced that it will also be necessary to have a strong defence policy focus on what is happening in the north, and that this must be reflected in some of the priorities being made, especially in relation to the maritime defence part of the defence, where increased focus around the north and increased presence on a permanent basis in the north will be one of the contributions to peace and a good relationship with our neighbours in this area. Just because of the growing interest that will become this, it is important that we highlight that this is an area of great importance to Norway. It makes it necessary to have greater foreign policy attention on it, and I could imagine challenging the Foreign Minister to say a few words about what the Government is thinking about in relation to the presence of the Defence and a defence policy perspective in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e990	The Coastal Party greatly appreciates the central party asking for the government's strategy for our northern regions. It would be good to know if we received a north-eastern message in good time before the year's elections. The voters are entitled to know about the government's failure to do so in the northern regions. Military presence will be a central element of a north-eastern strategy. It is a scandal that the Maritime Defense does not participate and asserts Norwegian sovereignty in the northern regions in the presence and exercises. The presence, activity and settlement of Jan Mayen are also of great importance for us to defend our rights in this part of the Norwegian sea zone. It is completely irresponsible of the Government to weaken this presence. On the contrary, housing and activities need to be significantly strengthened. The settlement along the Norwegian coast is also an essential part of Norwegian presence in the northern regions. For this reason, rural and resource policies are strongly integrated into a north-eastern context. We cannot allow the population of the northernmost states to go back. Nor should we allow the development of a large population element of Russians in our northernmost country for security reasons. These Russians will be able to easily conflict with loyalty in the event of any conflict of interest between Norway and Russia. Good neighbors have clear boundaries. The part-line issue will of course be central, as is the development of the link outside the Norwegian coast as an important link for the transport of oil, gas and other goods. The Coastal Party will insist that the Western Nordic perspective emerges clearly in the Northern Region Strategy. Together, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway can control marine resources in large parts of the Norwegian Sea. But then it must be the will of the Norwegian authorities to give priority to Western Nordic cooperation over the cooperation patterns we now have. The Northern Region Strategy must also be seen in the context of the Norwegian foreign policy strategy as a whole. The Coastal Party believes that the Government has prioritised fundamental errors by marginalising efforts in the northern regions. Norway has special prerequisites for playing a central role in its own neighbourhood. We also have a global responsibility for managing our important fishing resources in a sustainable – sustainable – way. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs is standing on this pulpit and says that Norway is Norwegian, and that Norwegian borders must be respected, it is quite right, but it is incredibly defensive. In order to assert sovereignty, we must be present, just as the representative Odd Roger Enoksen said instead. My point is that we're looking too much south and eastward and too little north and northward. Together with the countries I mentioned earlier, we could control food resources to a large part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1007	Finally, I would just like to thank you for the debate and note that it is good that we are receiving a North Sea report. It's legally late, but I think the discussion we've had here now shows that there's a need just to get a message that takes a complete grip. Some of the things that are exciting and challenging in relation to north-eastern policy, and some of what makes north-eastern policy special, are, of course, the fact that there is this link between national and international. And I have to say that I'm a little concerned about what approach the government is going to take, if you don't also focus on national conditions. I'm worried about, according to what the Foreign Minister says, that we get a message that's too narrow, and that it's going to be the Secretary of State's Northern Territory message and not the Government's announcement for the North. What we need is the government's thoughts and strategies for the northern regions. And that's what's going on: nutrition and housing policy is, of course, important in terms of sovereignty. Defence policy cannot be seen only in an international perspective. It must definitely also be seen from a national perspective. Coast Guards are maritimely important in relation to sovereignty. You could say the same thing about the environment. Obviously, we need to talk about national environmental policies, combined with the specific international challenges associated with tackling environmental issues in the north. So I hope that we will get a broad message, creating the link between the national challenges and the international challenges we have in the north. To Haakon Blankenborg, it is only a matter of saying that yes, in this overall perspective, we need to talk both about the bilateral agreement we are going to have in the area and about the multilateral agreement. This necessarily hangs in hops and has to do it. It will be interesting to see the message. I would like to hear a little more exactly from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about when it comes, because it doesn't make much sense to get it all the way to the dump of the session. Because there's a message that we're going to need some time to process, it's just this one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1020	I think Stortinget might be able to judge the message best when it comes, but I just want to mention that there will always be delimitation problems when writing a message, not least when the Stortinget has had the same case complex a number of times earlier. To take another example: I do not intend to create a new road map, for example, in connection with this, even though internal communications in North Norway are important. It will also apply to other things. So generally adding up to a debate on district policy, I don't think I'm right in this context, because the Storting has had many opportunities to go through this issue. But the fact that there are important aspects of this that also concern international relations is quite clear. For example, when Norway: attaches such importance to fisheries negotiations with other countries, in order to ensure that coastal areas have a safe and good nutritional basis. When we pay so much attention to tightening up the WTO anti-dumping rules, it has the same reason. When the studies in the Arctic Council show the climate issues, it's not because we don't have a climate policy, we want it in other contexts, but it further illustrates what we're facing here. So there'll always be bounds. But I would say that this message must focus on what is the common challenges in the area. As I said, it's possible we're talking past each other, but I want to maintain that Norwegian regions are Norwegian in any case. It is governed by international law and Norwegian law. I don't think we should mix the cards at that point. When it comes to the question of the dimensioning of the defence, I would not have thought to add up to a discussion of it. The Stortinget has had many opportunities to discuss this. But I would like to stress that one of the defence's important tasks is just the presence in the area. But like other speakers, the question is, how do we build alliances? It's also an important aspect of Defence's task when we have operations in other parts of the world. It's just to build the entrances and connections between the policies we run in the north, because we're involving alliance partners and friends, as we've always done in this area. Jacobsen asked me the question whether we are interacting with all groups. To that I would say that I sincerely hope so. At least we've put out the Orheim Committee's investigation at broad consultation. We've got a series of recordings. The last was the so-called Shadow Message of the National Subcommittee, which has valuable moments in it. I think we can say that we have just had a very large public debate. Then the challenge is to land the public debate in the form of a communication, and so we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1035	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1049	As indicated by the Minister of Finance's letter to the Finance Committee, a person living in Denmark can travel to Germany, buy up to 10 litres of alcohol, 90 litres of wine and 110 litres of beer on a cheap supermarket, and then drive the goods back to Denmark without having to pay any additional charge. A Swedish can take the ferry to Poland and do the exact same at an even cheaper price. We Nordics can't do the same thing. We bring with us more than one bottle of alcohol and one bottle of wine, we have to pay a fee that makes it almost no use at all. The last time I was in the Czech Republic, I got a bottle of homemade Slivovic by an old farmer. It would be very rude not to take it to Norway. But then I might not be able to buy one bottle of cognac for my friend who I tend to do when I'm out traveling. I have often gone and looked in the windows in some capitals of Eastern Europe and seen beautiful souvenirs that I have wanted to go into the store and bring home. But then they have contained vodka, whiskey, cognac or something like that, and then I have not been able to buy this bottle or this souvenir because I have already bought a bottle of cognac. In that case, I had to have the contents completely out, and that's something you don't do. Why do I mention these relatively trivial examples? Well, because the Norwegian rules, the Norwegian quotas, are so extremely petty that they have to be made just to irritate Norwegian consumers. They can't have any other purpose. It is pointless that Norwegian consumers should not be able to enjoy the same benefits as the millions of consumers living in EU countries, as long as we can control the legislation ourselves. We cannot be forced to introduce similar quota arrangements within the EU. EU rules have no legal significance for Norway in this area as long as we are not a member – okay. But we can't be forced to have any other rules. We ourselves decide how many goods can be included from an EU country into Norway without the need to pay the strange fees. The Minister of Finance argues that an increase in the import quotas will result in a sharp reduction in the domestic turnover of the goods and lead to progenytyap. That's a purely protectionist argument. Here is the consideration of traders who want to sell Norwegian beer, and the state, who sells spirits and wine, who are to be cared for at the expense of consumers and their ability, for example, to obtain cheap and good German beer. It is an eye-catching argument from parties such as the Right and the Labour Party, who are working to bring Norway into full membership of a free trade organisation such as the EU, when they say that these are rules that one would have to accept if Norway became a member, and so that it is an unfortunate regulation. Thus, the argument is made clear to the EU's opponents. Now they don't have to cheer too much, because I know the Norwegian people so well that I know that the lack of quotas would be a good argument for voting yes to the EU in a referendum. Free trade is part of the global market economy. It is therefore also rather alarming that a party like the Advance Party accepts both old-fashioned protectionism and wants to reduce the freedom of Norwegian consumers. Now, of course, there may be many excuses of the type of proposal that are too unclear, it's too poorly formulated, it's too poorly written, it goes too far, but it doesn't last. As long as there is a Document No Of course, 8 proposals dealing with import quotas for alcohol for treatment in a wholesale committee may take the opportunity of promoting their own, more moderate, better formulated, clearer and more technically correct proposals if they so wish. However, the Progress Party chooses to propose nothing, unlike what they did in November 2001, when they had a proposal that was almost identical to mine, at least in the changed form, where it is clear that there is only the import quotas from EU countries. At that time, the Progress Party wanted to adapt the Norwegian legislation to EU legislation, but now the party has turned around. And of course you can say, it's not an eye-catching thing, because that's what the Progress Party does every day. They turn around in political questions. Then it is always argued that the world has changed, and then the Progress Party must follow in its development and change its policy. Yes, there has been a development within the EU. That's right. But what has that development been about? It has assumed that more Member States have arrived. These Member States produce cheaper wine and cheaper beer, and they have a larger range of goods, not least in the Czech Republic. This means, in fact, that the changes have led to the fact that this proposal today would give Norwegian consumers significantly greater benefits than they would have received a few years ago, when the Progress Party presented its proposal. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has changed its policy. There are no batches represented on Stortinget that want any changes to the Norwegian quota regimes. That must be the conclusion, since no party has taken this opportunity to make any proposals, and that is the conclusion we must pass on to the voters in the forthcoming elections. I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber, which has been slightly changed in relation to the proposal in Document No. 8:24.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1072	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1075	As the rapporteur on the matter, I consider it necessary, for the sake of order, to draw attention to the fact that an overall financial committee has decided to reject this matter because a materially similar proposal has been dealt with in the committee within this period. Therefore, this proposal is rejected by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1082	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1095	Then we are ready to go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map. As previously agreed, the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement on case No. 1 will be sent for treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1105	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Åslaug Haga on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish an advisory body attached to the Office of the Prime Minister with representatives of the political parties, trade unions and stakeholder organisations in order to ensure access to information, correction and the possibility of creating a debate on WTO issues.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1129	The proposal by Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads: "The government asks the following:1. Take initiatives to change the way the WTO works in a more transparent and democratic direction. It is necessary to build alliances with other countries to ensure that such a democratic reform of the WTO can be adequately supported in the world.2. Inform the Government of how it will ensure that the process in Norway related to the further WTO negotiations becomes more open and democratic.3. Ensure that the Stortinget is more involved in advance of WTO meetings. There should be open debates in the United Kingdom before important WTO meetings.4. Ensure that active representatives from the Storting are present at important WTO meetings. A broad parliamentary delegation is important to ensure that different views, including those of the minority, are represented. [[For example, the Japanese made a broad parliamentary delegation in Geneva.]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1215	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-15.ana.ud76e1223	During the debate, the representative Jan Simonsen put forward a proposal which was distributed in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals and, where appropriate, to make the necessary regulatory changes so that, from EU countries to Norway, without paying the Norwegian alcohol levy, the same quantity of alcoholic beverages may be imported from one EU country to another without having to pay a levy to the importing country.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
