ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e38	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr State Council, Terje Riis-Johansen Council, Helga Pedersen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We then start with the first main question, from the representative Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e57	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The government will send fighter planes to the ISAF force in Afghanistan, but SV says in a statement from its National Governing Board meeting that under no circumstances can these planes help Americans on the Enduring Freedom mission. The background for both ‘Enduring Freedom’ and the presence of ISAF was the tragic attack on the United States on 11 September 2001. World society has accepted and supported the ongoing actions, Norway supports the warfare that is taking place. But one of the government parties believes that all aid to Americans in Afghanistan is incompatible with Norwegian policy. The worst thing you can do in Afghanistan is to help Americans remove the remaining Taliban and Al Qaida forces, we're going to believe the government's second largest party, SV. Is it not also the case that playing with the United States in Afghanistan is the best thing we can do to achieve peaceful development in the country? The situation in Afghanistan is not always predictable. We cannot take account of any crisis. Things can happen. And if a crisis should arise, then it is to understand that our most important ally, the United States, cannot expect Norwegian support and help from, among other things. the fighter aircraft to be dispatched? Or will the Foreign Minister reassure us that what the SV National Government Assembly had to think about helping the United States in Afghanistan does not matter at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e64	I can confirm that the Government stands united behind the decision I presented in the Stortinget earlier in November, about participation in ISAF, and about the shipment of three-four F-16 aircraft. These planes are essential for the safety of our troops in Afghanistan. This presented the Defence Manager a little bit more in detail in a talk earlier this week. Aeroplanes shall enter to enhance the safety of ISAF. Then there is an agreement between OEF, Operation Enduring Freedom, and ISAF on the possibility of mutual support in case of emergency. It is also part of the decision taken by the Government, that it is an opening for it. There is reason to believe that this is about exceptional cases. This is not about support for the United States, but it is about support for the forces in Operation Enduring Freedom. They come from several countries, and it may be about supporting other ways as well. That's the government line. It's communicated to our allies and partners, and that's the line of an overall government with support from Stortinget will follow in the six months we're going to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e73	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, for confirming the line that is fixed. No matter what kind of realism there is in the views of SV on this matter, is it not that this is problematic for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Norwegian Foreign Policy, that there are vague signals and almost confusion about important points in Norwegian foreign policy, and not least in relations with the United States? We are dependent on the United States in many contexts, not least in a joint effort in the north in the years to come. Is it not important that we stand together and avoid this uncertainty that has arisen here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e78	I would say that in a democracy, where many parties must be heard, and in governments how many parties participate – we have experience in both this government and the previous – there will be different views, and there will be channels for different assessments coming from those parties. Then it's a government task to gather around a position, have it firmly anchored in the Storting and firmly anchored with our allies and friends. The first one we got a confirmation of here in this hall earlier this month. The government's line is clear, Storting's support is clear. As far as the last point is concerned, I myself have been around our leading allies and in NATO and the United Nations and communicated that view. It is also clear and clear. That we then have a lively debate on these issues, I find not only natural but also desirable and positive for democratic debate on foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e83	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e86	The question of follow-up is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He has now confirmed that SV's government members believe one thing when they are in SV's central government, and something else when they are in the Government. It's okay to get it confirmed. However, SV has reached its position on Norwegian participation in ‘Enduring Freedom’, and there is something the Government has tried to avoid justifying. This resolution now under discussion is very clear in its explanatory statement on two points. It is quite obvious that there is a problem for SV that ‘Enduring Freedom’ is led by the Americans. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share the view that this is a problem? The second problem is that ‘Enduring Freedom’ is not passive and is waiting for terrorists to strike, but is active. The question is whether there is this activity that is the reason why the Government will not be part of ‘Enduring Freedom’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e97	It is not uncommon for parties to believe one thing in the party and one thing in the government. I believe that the former governments of several parties have also experienced that. A government shall find an overall position for the lots involved. It also applies to this government, and it has made it clear in a satisfactory way. It is not a problem that the operation «Enduring Freedom» is led by the United States in a coalition of willing, and I have said in this room that there is no doubt that it has a mandate to do what it does. I have explained – I can repeat it – to the Government's position that when we gather our forces in ISAF, it is related to two aspects. One is just this collection. We focus our efforts on ISAF, which is a NATO-led structure, where we sit on the governance side. You don't do that in a coalition of willing. The second is that from a perspective of the future, I see that the operation ‘Enduring Freedom’ has a less clear long-term perspective than that of ISAF, which is anchored in NATO, where I am going to attend the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting of the week and discuss the framework for this operation. It is a place where it is more natural for Norway to concentrate its business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e104	Jon Lilletun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e108	The Foreign Minister says there is no problem that the parties feel different in their organs and then are agreed on a position. But it's even harder when the government can now be seen as a seminar. Today, there is a big headline in the Newspaper on the Services Directive, saying that Kristin Halvorsen, the Minister of Finance, and Åslaug Haga, as Minister of Municipal Affairs, have said that it is very likely that one here will veto. Then Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the responsible minister, says that today it is not necessary. One almost does not need to change Norwegian law, because this is good in accordance with what Norwegian law is today. There are, therefore, quite different positions here, and they are also within the remit of the Foreign Minister. Is the Foreign Minister satisfied that the Government in this matter can actually appear as a seminar? The Christian People's Party is also opposed to social dumping, and we give full support to the Government in the fight against social dumping, but it is not good in the world that the Norwegian government looks like a public seminar.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e113	For the sake of order, the President would remind us that the question of follow-up must follow up on the main question. Whether the main issue was internal disagreement between government parties or the situation in Afghanistan may be somewhat unclear, so the President allowed the issue to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e116	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e121	I would first be careful to talk down on the term'seminar'. A seminar can often be useful in finding a common vision. I think previous governments have also enjoyed that. With regard to the views expressed by the Haga and Halvorsen Councils, I see them as a rather precise representation of the Soria Moria Declaration, that Norway will have difficulty in accepting a service directive that leads to social dumping. That is, of course, an attitude I share. In a case that has not yet come to an end in the EU – one is only in the middle of the process – I think it is useful for an EEA country to give a clear indication of some values, since this country is also going to implement it. What Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said was that after he had received information from lawyers, the existing directive as it stands would not lead to a change in Norwegian law. It is too early to say that it ends this way, because we are in a process where the Internal Market Committee in the European Parliament has voted, but then it will continue. There's another 1,500 amendments, and it's going to continue a few more rounds before we can conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e130	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e133	I note with satisfaction that the loyalty of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government is fully present to the Norwegian soldiers on the ground in Afghanistan and not to SVs on the lawn outside the Stortinget. What I want to ask is whether the Foreign Minister does not see anything problematic, based on the reference he made to the reciprocal agreement between ISAF and Enduring Freedom, which seems operationally reasonable, that one can almost leave the impression that soldiers' lives have some sort of classified value. If you could risk being an American, you're less protected, according to the SV logic, than if you're a Norwegian soldier. But the very agreement to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers is that if one is a soldier in a task of international law to build civilization and democracy in a country, one must be protected. One must know that international law follows one. My question is: fine with seminars, fine with plenary, but it must be problematic to have a classified view of those who are going to defend international law and democracy in a country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e140	I want to distance myself from saying that someone has given expression to a graduated vision. What's the line of these F-16 planes is that they're going to defend ISAF, take care of the security of our soldiers as part of a collective responsibility. Dutch and Belgians have made it now, and Norway is going to go in and do it for a few months to the next year. Then it lies as part of the agreement that in case of emergency, these planes or ISAF personnel can assist personnel in distress on the other side. Very familiar – this may not be the case – has not occurred until now, but it may occur in this demanding, difficult country to work in, including vice versa. That's the government's attitude. I have explained that in Stortinget. There's a whole government behind it, and that's just what I can repeat here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e145	Per Ove Wide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e148	In a debate a few days ago, the Minister of Defense informed that the Norwegian fighter aircraft to be flown to Afghanistan are now equipped to carry without limitation an air to ground-war, unlike the aircraft they were recently able to do so, nor to fly at night. To what extent have the Norwegian fighter pilots in Afghanistan been restricted in this case? Now it is informed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I think it is satisfactory that they should be able to support 'Enduring Freedom' forces without restrictions, as I understand it, but in the event that there are any restrictions, and what restrictions do the pilots have? Who will make the decision in a given situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e155	I can confirm what the Minister of Defense said about these planes being well equipped for the operation they're going into. Otherwise, the planes will enter a NATO command. Norway has officers in the ISAF command structure, and they will ensure that these aeroplanes do not undertake missions beyond the mandate of ISAF. So there is an operational plan for NATO's Afghanistan operation which states that NATO can only assist Operation Enduring Freedom in an emergency, and that any Norwegian participation will take place within the framework of the European Participating Air Forces, where Norway cooperates with other NATO countries. So the powers needed by the officers in the field have been given in order to take the decisions necessary to assist their own and other soldiers in an emergency. The operational conclusions must be taken on the ground by the professional military. I can't do that in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e160	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e164	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs a question. I want to start by giving praise to the Council of State for cleaning up some of the many things in the Red-Green Declaration that have created some doubts along the coast, and especially when it comes to keeping abreast of the distribution between the different fleets, i.e. between the coastal and sea fleets. But there are still some things left before we can say that the framework conditions for fishing are long-term and good. President, do I have only 20 seconds left?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e176	I would then like to ask the question: is not that system a threat to the overall profitability of Norwegian fishing? Does this not mean that there will simply be a distribution between installations that do not correspond to what is good pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e181	Wages and salaries at fleet level are very important, but it is also very important to ensure profitability on the land side. Some farms and some districts have had difficulty getting raw materials landings for their operations. The district quota scheme is intended to pay for it. When we are going to introduce district quota schemes, it is assumed that ships from all over the country should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, so I can't see that this will have any negative consequences for fleet profitability. It's also that when we introduce this system, we're going to be careful to do it. We're not going to take out the 10 pst. as the Soria Moria statement suggests that you should withdraw immediately. We're going to start with a smaller quantity. In this context, we shall also consider which groups of vessels and the types of fishing to be covered by this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e190	Petter Løvik gets a little more speaking time, up to two minutes, because the president made a mistake on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e193	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What has been quite pervasive for the last four years of the fisheries policy has been getting wages both on the sea and on the land. We have received a salary in the fishing industry that we haven't seen in very many years, for example. in the rural industry, by which the Minister for Fisheries was busily engaged. We've got a salary in 2004 for the first time in very many years. What we're afraid of is that when we get a regulation where state politicians are going to be involved in determining which plants are going to be delivered, we're going to be involved in maintaining overcapacity even on land, an overcapacity that both the current and the previous government, I've had the impression, have been a few if they exist. What's the big question is, who's going to give up quotas? The Minister for Fisheries has previously said that this should be voluntary. To the extent that no one voluntarily gives up allowances, will there not be any of them? The next question is: What is the loss of these deliveries for one of the farms? Because we have to remember, if we go to 10 pst, we're going to be up to about 1 billion, or 1,000 million. kr in first-hand value. We're talking about quite a lot of money and quite a lot of potential losses if the fishermen and the fishing industry don't get to take the maximum when it comes to price. What we've seen now is a growth along the coast both on the shore and on the sea side, on small uses and on large uses, of large boats and of small boats, and what we fear, is that this positive development now will stop. Who is going to lose these quotas and who is not going to be able to accept these deliveries that the state politicians are going to distribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e208	I fully agree with the representative Løvik that we should have profitability both at fleet level and on land. Business profitability is a foundation for securing the future of coastal communities, but we also need to build a social perspective on the policies we pursue. It is true that there is good profitability in some of the remaining farms, but there has also been a coastal bankruptcy wave. Part of the reason is that there are very high raw material prices and very hard competition for the raw material. This is why we need to facilitate the extra means in the most underprivileged districts to obtain raw materials on land. So, as I said, we're going to have a review of which groups of vessels and which types of fish this is going to cover. We're assuming that this system shouldn't create losers, but winners. There is also an important element in this process of requiring further processing of the fish supplies that are subject to district quota schemes, so that this fish does not leave the local community and out of the country without actually creating jobs and profitability on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e219	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e222	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The first thing the Minister of Fisheries did was to freeze the structural arrangements in place that were absolutely necessary to reduce overcapacity both at sea and on land. This, of course, led to major protests from the fishing industry. There were values of over $1 billion that the Minister of Fisheries spent the night. Fortunately, the Minister for Fisheries came to his senses and converted this freeze and introduced a more long-term approach. Well, I guess everyone interested in the Soria Moria statement has read it. It says that we must reintroduce an old-fashioned and immature fisheries policy. But will the Council of State have a dialogue with the industry before implementing that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e231	I can assure you that I will have a dialogue with the industry, and that includes, of course, both the fleet and the rural industry, as well as others who have interests in the fisheries policy under way, not least municipalities and county municipalities all along the coast. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the structural measures implemented in the fishing fleet should be evaluated, set against the objectives of ensuring a fleet contributing to coastal activity, ensuring a fleet that is modern, varied and profitable, and ensuring fishing resources as a common resource. Thus, while the work is in progress, the turnover of the quota released from the vessel is to be frozen. It is not right that I have reverted to the ‘structure freeze’, but we have put in place appropriate transitional arrangements to ensure that we take into account those who have made binding economic arrangements. I am quite sure that the outcome of this process will be a new structural policy which has far broader legitimacy than the old structures had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e240	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e244	I have a follow-up question for the Minister for Fisheries. Evaluation of the structural measures adopted by the Stortinget in the previous period was also expected by the Christian People's Party and planned. But there is a difference between evaluating and creating the impression that a closest one will revolutionize the fishing industry. Knut Arne Høyvik, an information manager in the Norwegian Fisheries Team, says: ‘An industry that has so much uncertainty throughout its business is screaming for political security. If politicians want to provide the fishing industry with a bear service, they must spread uncertainty about most.» Even before the evaluation committee has been shut down, the Minister for Fisheries has announced a halt to the sale and purchase of quotas, 10 pst. the total quota for district allowances, the redistribution of fleet groups and the winding-up of shipping quota schemes. My question is: how long will this uncertainty last for the fisheries industry in the future? Is that, as it is warned, about next Christmas we're going to get a case for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e258	Firstly, I have not notified any redistribution between fleet groups. On the contrary, I have said that today's distribution should be continued. Secondly, I have not stopped the shipping quota system. The shipping quota system is a three-year time-limited system and has nothing to do with the structural break. Those who were in that arrangement knew that there was a three-year time-limited arrangement. As far as predictability is concerned, I agree that it is important. In this context, the work to be carried out by the Structural Committee is of particular importance. I am sure that this work will turn into a structural policy with broad legitimacy, and therefore the sustainability of that policy will also be long.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e267	Gunn Berit Gärde - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e270	The Minister for Fisheries says she will listen to the fishing industry. Nearly all of the largest fishing organisations on the fishing side and on the fishing side are not combined in the current stoppages of the Minister for Fisheries in the Structural Schemes. It seems to me that the Minister for Fisheries is not listening very well to the industry. So my first question is, why doesn't she? The second is on district quotas. When you want to redeploy district allowances -- I guess it's not going to be distributed anymore -- there's someone who gets more, others get less. Can the Minister for Fisheries guarantee that the Western fishermen will not lose their regional quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e277	First of all, with regard to the structural pause, I record that there are different views about it. Some are skeptical, others are very happy. I believe that the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team has accepted that this structural selection will be carried out, and that there will be a structural pause. So there's been a disagreement over the date of the intersection. There I believe that the Government has come up with a good system, which takes care of the interests of the Fishlayer. With regard to the district quota system, the Soria Moria Declaration states that ships from all over the country should be equal in the scheme. It also suggests that the Western fishermen will be on the same footing as the trothfish and the North Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e286	Ivar Kristiansen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e289	Only today’s fisheries minister’s opinions on the implementation of a new structural policy make the Norwegian fishing industry breathe. There is a desire to reverse key aspects of Norwegian fisheries policy. Key policy aspects are to be consulted, and opinions from various municipalities are to be included, the Sameting is to be included in the picture, etc. It opens the door to expectations that more and more players will be put in place in the Norwegian fishing industry. Increased quota pressure, lower profitability, etc. can bring the Norwegian fishing industry back to the period we had in 2001, with bankruptcy, pessimism, etc. Now we have a historic opportunity to continue where we left off this year, with an export record and an industry going down. My question is: why in the world does the Minister for Fisheries want to repair something that works perfectly well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e296	It is particularly important that the fisheries policy pursued by the Government has broad legitimacy in the population. This has not been the case with the fisheries policy in the last four years of the previous government. When we are going to create a new structural policy, it is very important that we balance different considerations with each other. Yes, we need to ensure a fleet that is economically profitable, modern and varied, but we also need to ensure that the structure of the fleet contributes to activity, housing and employment along the coast, and we need to contribute to the continued management of fishing resources as a common resource. The business economy is important, but we must also safeguard the social perspectives of the fisheries policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e303	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e306	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the objective is to maintain living agriculture throughout the country and ensure that farmers have income development in line with other groups. These are good goals, in line with what the Christian People's Party stands for. But fine program formulations and airy desires are still not enough. The influence of the authorities is primarily the result of budgetary decisions and the setting of other framework conditions. In a press release on 10 November, Norway's Bondelag states that the government of Stoltenberg, despite a certain increase in the agricultural deduction, represents a significant increase in the tax on agriculture. The farmland indicates that the property value of agricultural property is increased by 25 pst. It's going to cost the industry between 50 and 100 million dollars. SEK in additional expenses. In addition, the fact is that the depreciation rates on computers are 20 pst. and not 25 pst., which the Cooperation Management proposed. In addition, the annual fee for tractors is increased by 30 million. kr. The budget currently adopted means, in practice, a not insignificant deterioration in the framework of agriculture. Here, it's hard to see similarity between life and learning. My question is then: is this the new course of agricultural policy? Is that the one we're seeing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e315	With regard to the formation of income and the wording of the Soria Moria statement, I would like to point out four individual elements that at least I think it is important to work with in the future. One is a relationship with the WTO. The second is related to a law that makes us have a family agriculture in the future that ensures a varied use structure in the country. So I believe that investing in innovation, innovation and development is a prerequisite for increased incomes in agriculture. In addition, there is general income and tax policy. The last one is what the representative Sørfonn is into. I think this is a need to nuance the picture somewhat in relation to what was said. One point is that there is a tax reform that underlies the changes that are now being made, a tax reform that almost a total increase was behind. So the government has made adjustments in tax policy with the ambition to have a fairer tax policy, which leads to a better distribution. This leads to some changes for the self-employed. To compensate for this, we have made changes in the deduction of income, which is a positive contribution to the agricultural industry. In addition, there are some changes in the display rate, where we go from a five-year interest rate calculation to a three-year interest rate calculation. Over time, it has limited effect in relation to changes in the taxation. In the short term, the effect may be such as the representative Sørfonn mentioned. In the longer term, this will be of less importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e323	I thank you for your answer. I have to comment on a couple of things. Firstly, the tax reform. Yes, the Stortinget was behind her, but some changes were made to what was available from the Cooperation Administration, among others. on the tax side of the property, which is quite clear for agriculture. So also the Council of State WTO as an important matter. It may then be natural to mention this important part of the setting of the framework conditions, because the Central Party’s fiscal spokesman, Per Olaf Lundtägen, was recently out in the media and demanded that the income losses that farmers had to get through a poor WTO agreement should be compensated for by the crowns of state support to the agricultural industry. Can the Council confirm that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e332	It is obvious that if a WTO agreement leads to significant changes in Norwegian agricultural policy, we have a major task in terms of arriving at compensatory measures. Now the situation in the WTO negotiations is that things are relatively unclear. We have just received a situation at the Hong Kong ministerial meeting that suggests that there may be less comprehensive solutions there than was foreseen in the past. I think it is important now to focus on the content of the agreement to be negotiated, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to what compensatory measures are to be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e337	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e340	My question also goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The debate on the development of farm incomes is very important. But in the Norwegian agricultural debate, there has clearly been a one-sided focus on state transfers. The Norwegian farmer is a trader in line with other traders in our society, and then it is an important factor in the development of income: having control and opportunities to influence own income and exploit the opportunities that – in this case – the agricultural property has, and that self-sufficiency and progress should be an important contribution to the development of income. At the same time, we see that Norwegian agriculture is the most permeable industry in this country. What will the Council of State do to enable the Norwegian farmer to work under less regulated conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e345	I believe the issue is wrong. I myself attended a seminar in the direction of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research a few days ago, and so clearly the fact that the incomes of each use in Norway depend entirely on the individual farmer's competence. We see income differences here at many tens of percent, as a result of how good the individual farmer is. So producing Norwegian agricultural policy as a system that does not facilitate or encourage the private initiative is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e350	Finn Martin Vallersnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e353	WTO negotiations consist of more than agriculture. It's also industrial goods, and it's services. I have a follow-up question for the Foreign Minister. One of the objectives of the negotiations is to better integrate developing countries into world trade, including: through the service negotiations. Services play a crucial role in the proper functioning of industry and the rest of the economy. The criticism of the GATS negotiations is based on many misunderstandings. It is not about selling out public services or about privatisation, nor about the right to regulate. After the Government has reviewed the requirements of Norway so far: Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that Norway maintains the priorities, requirements and wishes that Norway has already promoted towards 51 countries in the GATS?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e360	First, I would like to say that it can be indirect and direct effects of opening up to trade in services. It is true that there is no negotiation about the weakening of official control of important services, but the indirect effect can be when a sector is opened. I think you should be aware of that. I cannot confirm that the Government will maintain all the requirements that have been set. This is assessed by the Government following a comprehensive consultation of business organisations, non-governmental organisations and other interested parties. But I can confirm that there will be changes in the demands that Norway will make. Which this is going to be, it's too early to conclude, but it'll be clear before the Hong Kong ministerial meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e367	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e370	I would like to follow up with a question to the Minister for Agriculture. 2004 was a very good year in terms of income development and investment in agriculture, but that does not mean that agriculture is not facing very major challenges. One of the challenges is changes related to the WTO. The government has now asked for increased powers for new reductions in 'yellow box', which the government has denied in the newspaper. But he confirms in a letter to the Left's Group on 25 November that it can also lead to further reductions in customs duties compared to the first concessions. This will have consequences for Norwegian agriculture. My question, then, is whether the Council of State is not in a hurry to achieve the conversion of agriculture that is needed to deal with the major changes that the WTO negotiations will actually lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e377	As the responsible State Council for Agriculture Policy, I have a great ambition to convert and develop agriculture. That conversion happens while we're standing here, and it's going to continue. Then, of course, there's a question about the content of the conversion. For me, conversion into Norwegian agriculture is more than liquidation and centralisation. The transition for me is to develop agriculture and to use the resources that are there. That's my ambition. In relation to the WTO, I am a little surprised that what is communicated around the shielding support can be misunderstood. In fact, there are positions related to reductions in the shielding support. It may lead to a need for reduced target prices if one chooses to take it that way – which has not been given. It's not obvious that one does it that way, but if one does it, it will give air to the customs rates. However, there is no link that will automatically reduce customs duties as a result of a reduction in the protection support. So I'm a little surprised at that connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e385	Bjørg Tørersdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e388	The Council of State used a fair tax policy as an argument for fiscal consolidation for agriculture. Agriculture has a relatively large property stock relative to earnings. An increase in the equivalency of gardening means an increase in the tax burden that is not related to an increase in agricultural income. This is not related to the tax reform. How can the Council of State use the argument of fair tax policy for this tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e393	What I said instead, and as I sincerely believe, is that the changes that the Government has made in fiscal policy since it joined are essential to achieve a more sensible and fairer tax policy. However, it is obvious that when a person goes in and makes changes in order to achieve more equal taxation of capital income and labour income, it also has consequences in relation to self-employed persons who have part of the income as capital income. It is obvious that in the situation we have in relation to taxation, this has led to some changes that involve tax incentives for self-employed people. Then, as I said in my first post, we have gone into compensatory measures, as with the income deduction for agriculture. And in addition, to repeat myself, it's a fact that the much-mentioned changes related to going from five-year interest rate computation to three-year short term negative. But in a longer-term perspective, there will be no adverse effects on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e400	The story goes on to the next main question – Gunn Berit Girde.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e403	I want to follow up on this with the agricultural conversion. It is alarming, if I have now understood correctly, that the Minister of Agriculture expects him to withdraw some of the cards he has presented in the negotiations. It will be exciting to see if anything happens in Hong Kong. To this end, we in the Left have at least recorded that the new government and the Minister of Agriculture have approved everything that the previous government did in connection with the WTO, and have not reduced to a single decimal point. In addition, there are new admissions. As I see it, there's a lot of talk in order for one to go even further, one should come up with a slide again in the conversations with the G10 countries. This will have a major impact on Norwegian agriculture, as the Minister of Agriculture is also concerned. However, the left has not registered that the Minister of Agriculture has said anything about how he will meet these new challenges. He says he's going to convert, but we're not going to know what the conversions are. The criticism of the investment in the new agricultural sector, which the previous government has launched, has ceased. We interpret this, together with the statements of the Secretary of State, as if it were fully connected to the agricultural policy that the previous government led. It may be tempting to use the saying: Fear all the world, but be on the move! The previous government saw developments and started some measures and changes that would give a new agriculture. Norway is part of the world, whether we want it or not – also in agricultural policy. In the nation today, one can read about «Golden Omvej», 19 small food and tourist businesses. We have not heard the Minister of Agriculture say anything about what he intends to do to make a change. How is he going to meet the optimism created under the previous government when it comes to agriculture and the new agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e414	I was so lucky yesterday that I was actually given the Building Development Prize to the Golden Way. I was in Oslo Konserthus yesterday with 1,200 others and had a wonderful evening in relation to being able to focus on conversion, development and innovation in agriculture. It is quite clear that agricultural policy must be successful. For me, it is partly about focusing on family farming, on the large segment that is in the middle of Norwegian agricultural policy, on those who have their work on the individual farm, and who contribute so positively to cultural landscape, value creation and employment. There's to be my focus. At the same time, we're going to be able to develop new jobs, partly by developing traditional agriculture, based on what I said now, and partly through what I focused on yesterday when I was in Oslo Konserthus, on those who do something completely different. That's great. Then we have big complementary industries with potentials that are unsolved. That's true, to take one concrete example, bioenergy, which has been said very well about. But there is still a lot of action to get out the potential of thinking about district policy, employment and the environment — together. We will deal with this through a much more offensive commitment to bioenergy and energy production towards agriculture than what has been done up to now. The sum of these is an offensive agricultural policy. The sum of these is an agricultural policy based on both regional and employment thinking and on being prepared for the transition needed to be an attractive profession for which young people are seeking and capable of delivering in relation to employment, preparedness, rural policy, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e425	Thanks for the answer. In the answer that was given now, I don't hear about any new thing, other than what the previous government started. Bioenergy was named as a bet area. What we've seen so far is, on the contrary, that the minister has been involved in putting chains in the wheels for gardeners who want to think about a change. Then I think of small power plants. It has been completely silenced by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Soria Moria, who came to put an end to the new effort that many gardeners saw as a potential for income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e434	It might have been interesting if the representative could find out whether she would agree or disagree with what is the agricultural policy of this government. I see that in one moment it's said that we're doing the same thing, and in the next moment we're being criticized for what we're doing. I've outlined a little bit of what I'm thinking about agricultural policy in the future. I have great ambitions to have an offensive agricultural and district policy over the four years that await me. I think it is very good if there is a desire among the opposition parties in Stortinget to help back up the policy that the Government intends to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e441	There will be three follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e444	I was at the same seminar that the Minister of Agriculture was at a few days ago, with the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research. It was noted that investment in Norwegian agriculture had increased sharply since 2002 — productivity growth and annual agricultural incomes. This is the background music of the government of Stoltenberg and the Centerpartiet for a new course. Many farmers have regained their confidence in the future and are laying offensive strategies for the future. It focuses on developing the value creation potential that exists on the property of the individual. For many years, there have been clear signals from the Ministry of Agriculture that agriculture must be involved in such processes. In this light it is a paradox that the Center Party is in a government where the use of max. price is now signalled for hunting and other outlanding activities. Here, agriculture and district Norway have an opportunity to create more profitable activity towards a payable and affordable audience. Does the Minister of Agriculture agree that the use of the maximum price is relevant? Does he think that this is an offensive and stimulating policy for the development of a forward-looking and robust Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e455	The government has made no proposal on what goes at the maximum price. To say that the investment that has been in agriculture in recent years is in a way proof that everything is well, I think is a somewhat simple analysis. We also need to bear in mind the fact that – in close touch – investing out of any challenge also represents a challenge in the further formulation of agricultural policy. We need to have a more long-term approach to where we end up in agricultural policy, the only way to generate income in agriculture is through initial investment and volume growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e463	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e466	As pointed out by the Left’s representative, this government has created considerable uncertainty for farmers and too many small-scale projects. The development of small-scale power stations is an important additional income for our farmers and can contribute to the maintenance of living areas and housing in our districts. The ambiguity created around the electrical certification system, as well as the limit of one kilowatt hour for small power plants, endangers the development already under way. Farmers experience a lack of and uncertainty about income opportunities. Does the Council of State see that this government has created further uncertainty about the income base of our farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e473	I believe that this government has been quite clear in relation to the fact that it wants to focus on income opportunities in agriculture as well. I've tried to say a lot about this today in relation to my ambitions and what I'm going to think about to create a positive income development in agriculture, with significant ring-effects out in Building Norway, also in industries other than agriculture. In the case of electricity certificates and small power plants, there is a question for which government councils other than me are responsible. So I'm not going to go into a detailed debate on the consequences of different legislation in relation to the power sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e480	André Nikolai Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e483	The government's position in the WTO negotiations means that there is a need to look at cost reductions in Norwegian agriculture. It will largely require flexible arrangements in the future. My question is: will the Minister of Agriculture make it possible to rent allowances in the milk sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e490	I have no ambition to introduce quota rental in the milk sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e495	We move on to the next main question – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e498	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: The Norwegian fishing industry is an important industry and exports about DKK 30 billion annually, and is an industry that is crucial to many communities. With regard to the forthcoming WTO negotiations, the Minister for Fisheries has been totally silent and passive with regard to Norway’s positions in those negotiations – unlike the Minister for Agriculture, who has been very eager to pursue an immature agricultural policy, where Norwegian taxpayers have to subsidise the farmers by $10 billion a year and Norwegian consumers have a high food price to deal with. What kind of initiative will the Minister for Fisheries take to secure the fishing industry in the forthcoming WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e507	Like a number of other countries, Norway has both offensive and defensive interests in the WTO negotiations. The fishing industry is a very important Norwegian export industry and fisheries interests are safeguarded in the WTO negotiations, in relation to working for both cut-off rates and anti-dumping measures. I have full confidence in the manner in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as the negotiator of Norway, takes care of these interests. Together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture, I will also attend the WTO meeting in Hong Kong next month.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e512	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also note that Norway's Fiskarlag has concerns over the forthcoming WTO negotiations. It is a little strange that Norway's trade policy is based on the assumption that we should have full free trade in fishery products, while for agricultural products we practice import protection and high internal subsidies. Here, in my view, there are two conflicting relationships. Is the Minister for Fisheries prepared to sacrifice the international framework conditions of the fishing industry in order to maintain today's fully regulated, anti-competitive Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e517	I am not afraid that fishing interests will be sacrificed by Norwegian sides in the WTO negotiations. As mentioned above, it is not unique to Norway that different interests exist in different industries. Other countries also have defensive and offensive interests to attend to. So I'd say that's not a cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e523	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e526	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: 95 pst. Norwegian seafood is exported as known and the industry is very concerned about obtaining good market access through the WTO Agreement. In the evening post on 10 November, the Minister of Agriculture believes that it is entirely right that the WTO agreement be delayed. He says at some point in the essay: ‘Many are at stake, the result can determine whether we will continue to have agriculture throughout the country and maintain the cultural landscape’ And he goes on to say, ‘We do not ensure the fishing industry by concluding agreements that weaken agriculture’ Does this mean that the Minister of Agriculture believes that the interests of agriculture govern the Norwegian positions in the WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e543	Like what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said on repeated occasions, I believe it is absolutely essential that we get an agreement that is broad in scope with regard to the negotiating issues that are up in the WTO. Agriculture is at the moment the most focused theme in the negotiations. Fish are also very, very important to Norway. In relation to the postponement of the WTO process, I believe it is a natural consequence of the great distance that was at the Ministerial Meeting in Geneva two to three weeks ago. Then one saw that there were so many remaining negotiation themes that were not solved that it was natural to spend more time. I still mean that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e550	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e553	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for WTO issues. Yesterday I had the pleasure of hearing his Swiss colleague, Joseph Deiss, say the same thing as our Norwegian Foreign Minister says, namely that it is probably not the big round of reductions now in Hong Kong, but that one hopes to get it over the spring, and March-April was suggested as a time for this to happen. This debate so far shows that there is so much uncertainty for many industries that it is vital for Norway to find a solution, including for agriculture. My question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share the prediction that we will have a hectic spring that can lead to the crucial final rounds of the WTO, and will Norway work for it – and not least ensure that Hong Kong will not be a relapse of positions, but that Norway will also hold its positions when passing the Hong Kong meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e560	I can confirm what the representative Sponheim says, and I share his analysis. It is important that Hong Kong does not become an intermediate station that takes the air out of the balloon and takes the pressure from the negotiations. We all have a responsibility to contribute to Hong Kong becoming a proper intermediate station between the Ministerial Meeting in 2004 and what becomes full modalities. Norway shall contribute to all the areas of negotiation. Then it's important that we get a conclusion from Hong Kong that gives pressure in the negotiations beyond the spring. If you get a final meeting in the spring or not, I think it's a little early to say something about, but I share the ambitions of my Swiss colleague, who has also shown the Director-General of the WTO in the run-up to Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e567	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e570	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: The protection of Norwegian interests in the context of WTO negotiations largely affects agricultural interests. That is what the public debate is about. Now, however, the fishing industry is becoming the major industry in the district of Norway. Both the Land Association of Fisheries and the Marine Industry and the Norwegian Fisheries Team are highly critical of the positions taken by the Norwegian Government in the WTO negotiations. They regard WTO negotiations as the great opportunity for Norwegian districts. Then is my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food whether he is of the opinion that Norwegian agriculture is more important for the development of Norwegian districts than the large fishing industry, which is also large in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e577	The answer to that question is quite similar to the answer I gave a little earlier today. If we are to succeed in implementing rural policy in Norway, we must have the breadth of rural policy – that means fish, and that means agriculture. And that means that in the negotiations we are now in the WTO, we must provide good enough solutions in both areas. That's what the government has as ambition, and that's what's currently in the positions played. So I believe that both the agricultural and fisheries industries can be comfortable with the positions presented, and we have a very clear objective of achieving results that will enable both sectors to develop even after this WTO round is concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e584	The Storting then deals with the last main question in this questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e587	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The right is satisfied that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in full swing with the Northern Region dialogue launched in a big deal last spring. The Right Party and the Labour Party clearly have quite a parallel view of both the opportunities and solutions of the North and the instruments of foreign policy, and that is, of course, good. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, according to his experience so far, is: Is it an advantage for Norway to be outside the EU when we address the northern regions with large EU countries, or is it a disadvantage? Or does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the question is irrelevant? The issue is relevant and can be illustrated by an example: in recent days we have seen press releases that neither Danish nor Swedish party traps will provide support to the Norwegian Prime Minister in the fisheries dispute with the EU. Today, it is obviously fast-track that the EU ends up with the Member State that is in conflict with a foreign country. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Norway’s position regarding the protection zone would be more vis-à-vis the EU, and therefore against Spain, if Norway had been a member of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e597	This question gives an invitation to the word ‘seminar’, for this could be discussed in many different directions. I even participated in the negotiations on the EEA Agreement and the membership agreement and saw how complicated that question was when it was about the fishing regime in the north and around the Svalbard zone. In fact, for my own part, I have come to realize that I will now spend less time on the hypothetical assessment than on the day-to-day work on caring for our interests. But if I were to make a brief contribution, I would say that, on the one hand, one could imagine that if Norway had 25 countries in its back almost automatically through an EU membership, it would have been an advantage in many ways. But there is no automatic way to get there, because many of the EU countries have interests that they want to take out by having a different view from Norway of how the fishing protection zone is handled. I think we have a slightly erroneous image sometimes, that there is so much resistance to the Norwegian view. There are some countries that have made reservations. But of the countries that have signed the Svalbard Treaty, there is actually a large majority who have not taken reservations. I would also like to draw attention to the opinions that are now coming from fishing environments further south of Europe, for example. In Spain, where it is said that the Norwegian regime provides good governance and security. From this point of view, whether Norway could have been implemented for the Norwegian regime as an EU regime, in the EU, is a hypothetical question – and it has been said by a former Prime Minister that one can refrain from answering. I agree with that assessment, really, because the problems are so many here today, with the status we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e604	I thank you for the answer so far. I would like to point out that in the speech of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Paris on 25 November, he said that through our Northern Region policy, we hope to link Russia even more strongly to European cooperation structures. This objective is supported by the right, but considers that linking Norway even more strongly to European cooperation structures must be at least as important. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that he too has that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e611	First of all, I would like to say that what we do with Russia in the north is part of our European policy. My Russian colleague and I attended the EU Ministerial Meeting on the Northern Dimension a week ago – in Brussels – and it was an expression that we are joining in that way. I can confirm that this government has its position on membership of the European Union, which, in confusion, is reminiscent of that of the previous government – a government in which the Right took part. So I think it's important that you have a discussion about membership, and that you get it illuminated by many teams. My task as Minister of Foreign Affairs in this government is to follow up what is the government platform, and this is about taking care of Norwegian interests with the form of connection we now have, and I see that it really gives me hands full.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e618	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e621	We have registered that the Secretary of State has his hands full. I would like to pay tribute to the Foreign Minister for the offensive way in which he has started his work, not least in relation to the North. My approach to the question asked by the representative, Vallersnes, is probably somewhat different. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see that when it comes to managing fish and managing marine resources, is it one of the areas where it has been an advantage that we are not a member of the EU? If we look at the way in which the EU has been managed versus Norwegian responsibility, we see a significant difference. The representative Jagland has repeatedly stated that he thinks it's one of the areas that actually might have been the reason for it being no, and he understands why the people reacted as she did. Does the Foreign Minister share the view that when it concerns fisheries and management, it has actually been an advantage that we have the position we have – EEA member, but not EU member?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e630	This is going to happen with hypothesis again, because if we were to give a proper answer to that question, we had to consider what would be the effect of Norwegian membership in the EU, for example. Eleven years, about the day. Could Norwegian administrative competence, which is also not perfect in all contexts, have led the EU in the right direction? I'm not spending any more time on it right now. In order to answer correctly, I believe that there are serious deficiencies in the EU fisheries management – the state of the North Sea, in other fishing banks where the EU has administrative responsibilities – this warrants. And I believe that the proposals that have come from both the Commission and some of the EU Member States on how to enforce administrative responsibility in the protection zone actually indicate a decision-making crisis when it comes to finding the solution that can actually ensure good governance there and there. So I mean far in the direction of what Thorbjørn Jagland has said, that this is an area where Norway is going to put great emphasis on the experience and competences we have. The fact that we have stable and increasing quotas in our areas, while they are broadly decreasing in the European Union, is a telling example.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e639	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e642	In politics, there are times for fighting and times for consensus. Nordic policy requires consensus in a country such as Norway. So I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for following up the northern regions in a strong way – in the way that former foreign minister Jan Petersen also drew up. My first reasoning goes basically along a little bit of other lines. See, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. on the Arctic Council – where all the countries of the North Calotene, the North, are united – as an important instrument, not least in a geopolitical context? We know that one of the three richest resources on this planet is in the north. This applies to oil and gas. The second concerns Svalbard policy, which I am aware is not the foreign minister's portfolio alone, but which is part of it. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see the value of the fact that where we have previously only had black coal, there is also research, which can be built up and become a very important – and important – part of Norwegian North Sea policy? The research effort in connection with the Polar Year and not least the research as we see it at Svalbard, in Longyearbyen and in the New Ålesund are important contributions to the Northern Region policy. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e651	I thank you for the good words. We had a lot of good time to build on when we got to the north. I agree that the Arctic Council is a very important instrument. At the ministerial meeting in Brussels last week, we looked at maps of the polar regions and the ice. The ice is melting. It melts mostly on the Canadian side, which illustrates that this is a theme that needs to attract everyone. This is where the Arctic Council is important. In the next six years, there will be Nordic countries that have the presidency, and we are working to see if we can see a line in it, to make the best use of the possibilities. I fully agree with this. I agree that the research effort on Svalbard is of great importance. I have the basics that activity builds upon sovereignty. If Svalbard had been a place today with a few catching men and women, we would have had a different starting point than the diverse activity we have — from coal, tourism and travel to research. So it has to be absolutely central to us. I notice the great interest from other countries in the research environment at Svalbard. I think that is an advantage for Norwegian sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e662	Jan Tore Sanner – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e665	I will also give the Foreign Minister credit for the offensive way in which he has dealt with the Northern Region policy. It is a good follow-up to the policy of the former government – and not least by former foreign minister Jan Petersen’s handling and the basis for it. I would be surprised if the Foreign Minister did not agree that EU membership would have been an advantage in terms of back coverage and penetration in the north. But leave it alone. Let's look at the second best: having good friends who follow loyally and who can give us back coverage – both our friends on the other side of the Atlantic and our friends in Europe. I note that the new government has been more concerned about what we should not be involved in, in NATO and in relation to the United States, and what we should not be involved in in relation to the EU, by marking possible veto against both the Chemicals Directive and the Services Directive. Does such an attitude strengthen or weaken our ability to achieve our goals in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e675	I do not share Mr. Sanner's view that we have sent that kind of signals. Norway sends signals of being an active participant in the forums where we are a participant and a supporter where we have our friends. The image that we've spent time emphasising what we're not going to participate in, I think is a crazy idea of what happened. Norway’s strengthening of its participation in ISAF, for example, all the places I have travelled to – whether it is to NATO in Brussels, to London or to Washington – are received as a powerful contribution from a partner who delivers what he promises. If you think that the Norwegian approach to the Chemicals Directive and the Services Directive will weaken Norway as a credible partner, I think you should move to Brussels and look at what the EU countries themselves think about these directives when they come up in these forums. This may be true of Sweden – and it may be true of France, where this was probably a contributing cause for the French people’s refusal to the Constitutional Treaty. I believe here that in the same way as in a national context – which I replied to earlier – and in a European context, it belongs to democracies to have a discussion. This is the way these bodies have been set up, whether NATO, the EU or the EEA, where Norway plays a loyal and active role.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e686	Case No. 1, the oral question procedure, is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-30.ana.ud1915e697	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
